Anna Karenina
Leo Tolstoy
Vengeance be mine ; I will repay .
volume one part I
all happy families resemble one another , but each unhappy family be unhappy in its own way .
everything be upset in the Oblonskys ' house .
the wife have discover an intrigue between her husband and their former french governess , and declare that she would not continue to live under the same roof with he .
this state of thing have now last for three day , and not only the husband and wife but the rest of the family and the whole household suffer from it .
they all feel that there be no sense in their live together , and that any group of people who have meet together by chance at an inn would have have more in common than they .
the wife keep to her own room , the husband stop away from home all day ; the child run about all over the house uneasily , the english governess quarrel with the housekeeper and write to a friend ask if she could find she another situation ; the cook have go out just at dinner - time the day before and have not return ; and the kitchen - maid and coachman have give notice .
on the third day after his quarrel with his wife , Prince Stephen Arkadyevich Oblonsky – Steve , as he be call in his set in Society – wake up at his usual time , eight o'clock , not in his wife 's bedroom but on the morocco leather - cover sofa in his study .
he turn his plump , well - keep body over on the springy sofa as if he wish to have another long sleep , and tightly embrace one of the pillow lean his cheek against it ; but then suddenly open his eye and sit up .
' let I see what be it ? ' he think , try to recall his dream .
' what be it ?
oh yes – Alabin be give a dinner - party in Darmstadt – no , not in Darmstadt but somewhere in America .
oh yes , Darmstadt be in America , – and Alabin be give the party .
the dinner be serve on glass table – yes , and the table sing " Il mio tesoro " ... no , not exactly " Il mio tesoro , " but something well than that ; and then there be some kind of little decanter that be really woman . '
his eye sparkle merrily and he smile as he sat think .
' yes , it be very nice .
there be many other delightful thing which I can not just get hold of – can not catch now I be awake . '
then , notice a streak of light that have make its way in at the side of the blind , he gaily let down his leg and feel about with his foot for his slipper finish with bronze kid ( last year 's birthday present , embroider by his wife ) ; and from nine year ' habit he stretch out his arm , without rise , towards where his dressing - gown usually hang in their bedroom .
and then he suddenly remember that , and why , he be not sleep there but in his study . the smile vanish from his face and he frown .
' oh dear , dear , dear ! ' he groan recall what have happen .
and the detail of his quarrel with his wife , his inextricable position , and , bad of all , his guilt , rise up in his imagination .
' no , she will never forgive I ; she can not forgive I !
and the bad thing about it be , that it be all my own fault – my own fault ; and yet I be not guilty !
that be the tragedy of it ! ' he think . ' oh dear , oh dear ! ' he mutter despairingly , as he recall the most painful detail of the quarrel .
the bad moment have be when return home from the theatre merry and satisfied , with an enormous pear in his hand for his wife , he do not find she in the drawing - room nor , to his great surprise , in the study , but at last see she in her bedroom with the unlucky note which have betray he in her hand .
she sit there : the careworn , ever - bustling , and ( as he think ) rather simple Dolly – with the note in her hand and a look of terror , despair , and anger on her face .
' what be this ? this ? ' she ask , point to the note .
and , as often happen , it be not so much the memory of the event that torment he , as of the way he have reply to she .
at that moment there have happen to he what happen to most people when unexpectedly catch in some shameful act : he have not have time to assume an expression suitable to the position in which he stand toward his wife now that his guilt be discover .
instead of take offence , deny , make excuse , ask forgiveness , or even remain indifferent ( anything would have be well than what he do ) , he involuntarily ( ' reflex action of the brain , ' think Oblonsky , who be fond of physiology ) smile his usual kindly and therefore silly smile .
he could not forgive himself for that silly smile .
dolly , see it , shudder as if with physical pain , and with her usual vehemence burst into a torrent of cruel word and rush from the room .
since then she have refuse to see he .
' it be all the fault of that stupid smile , ' think Oblonsky . '
but what be I to do ? what can I do ? ' he ask himself in despair , and could find no answer .
OBLONSKY be TRUTHFUL with himself .
he be incapable of self - deception and could not persuade himself that he repent of his conduct .
he could not feel repentant that he , a handsome amorous man of thirty - four , be not in love with his wife , the mother of five living and two dead child and only a year young than himself .
he repent only of not having manage to conceal his conduct from she .
nevertheless he feel his unhappy position and pity his wife , his child , and himself .
he might perhaps have be able to hide thing from she have he know that the knowledge would so distress she .
he have never clearly consider the matter , but have a vague notion that his wife have long suspect he of be unfaithful and wink at it .
he even think that she , who be nothing but an excellent mother of a family , wear - out , already grow elderly , no long pretty , and in no way remarkable – in fact , quite an ordinary woman – ought to be lenient to he , if only from a sense of justice .
it turn out that the very opposite be the case .
oh dear , oh dear , how awful ! ' Oblonsky keep repeat to himself , and could arrive at no conclusion .
' and how well everything be go on till now – how happily we live ! she be contented , happy in her child ; I never interfere with she but leave she to fuss over they and the household as she please ...
of course it be not quite nice that she have be a governess in our house .
that be bad !
there be something banal , a want of taste , in carry on with one 's governess – but then , what a governess ! '
( he vividly picture to himself Mlle Roland 's roguish black eye , and her smile . )
' besides , as long as she be in the house I never take any liberty .
the bad of the matter be , that she be already ...
why need it all happen at once ?
oh dear , dear , dear !
what be I to do ? '
he could find no answer , except life 's usual answer to the most complex and insoluble question .
that answer be : live in the need of the day , that is , find forgetfulness .
he could no long find forgetfulness in sleep , at any rate not before night , could not go back to the music and the song of the little decant - woman , consequently he must seek forgetfulness in the dream of life .
' we will see when the time come , ' think Oblonsky , and get up , put on his grey dressing - gown line with blue silk , tie the cord and draw a full breath of air into his broad chest go with his usual firm tread toward the window , turn out his foot that carry his stout body so lightly , draw up the blind and ring loudly .
the bell be answer immediately by his old friend and valet , Matthew , who bring in his clothe , boot , and a telegram .
he be follow by the barber with shaving tackle .
' any paper from the Office ? ' ask Oblonsky , as he take the telegram and sit down before the look - glass .
' they be on your table , ' answer Matthew with a questioning and sympathizing glance at his master – add after a pause with a sly smile : ' some one have call from the jobmaster 's . '
Oblonsky do not answer , but glance at Matthew 's face in the look - glass . from their look , as they meet in the glass , it be evident that they understand one another .
Oblonsky 's look seem to say : ' why do you tell I that ? as if you do not know ! '
Matthew put his hand into the pocket of his jacket , put out his foot , and look at his master with a slight , good - humour smile .
' I order he to come the Sunday after next , and not to trouble you or himself needlessly till then , ' say he , evidently repeat a sentence he have prepare .
Oblonsky understand that Matthew mean to have a joke and draw attention to himself .
he tear open the telegram and read it , guess at the word , which ( as so often happen in telegram ) be misspelt , and his face brighten .
' Matthew , my sister Anna Arkadyevna be come to - morrow , ' he say , motion away for a moment the shiny plump hand of the barber , which be shave a rosy path between his long curly whisker .
' the Lord be thank ! ' say Matthew , prove by his answer that he know just as well as his master the importance of this visit : namely , that Anna Arkadyevna , Stephen Arkadyevich 's favourite sister , might help to reconcile the husband and wife .
' be she come alone , or with Mr. Karenin ? '
Oblonsky could not answer as the barber be busy with his upper lip ; but he raise one finger , and Matthew nod to he in the glass .
' alone .
would you like one of the upstairs room get ready ? '
' ask Darya Alexandrovna . '
' Darya Alexandrovna ? ' Matthew repeat , as if in doubt .
' yes , tell she .
give she the telegram , and see what she say . '
' you want to have a try at she ? ' be what Matthew mean , but he only say : ' yes , sir . '
Oblonsky be wash , his hair brush , and he be about to dress , when Matthew , step slowly in his creak boot , re - enter the room with the telegram in his hand .
the barber be no long there .
' Darya Alexandrovna tell I to say that she be go away .
" he may do as he please " – that is , as you please , sir , ' he say , laugh with his eye only ; and , put his hand in his pocket , with his head on one side , he gaze at his master .
Oblonsky remain silent , then a kind and rather pathetic smile appear on his handsome face .
' ah , Matthew ! ' he say , shake his head .
' never mind , sir – thing will shape themselves . '
' shape themselves , eh ? '
' just so , sir . '
' do you think so ? – who be that ? ' ask Oblonsky , hear the rustle of a woman 's dress outside the door .
' it be I , sir , ' answer a firm and pleasant woman 's voice , and Matrena Filimonovna , the child 's nurse thrust her stern pockmarked face in at the door .
' what be it , Matrena ? ' ask Oblonsky , step out to she .
although he be entirely guilty and be conscious of it , almost every one in the house – even the nurse , Darya Alexandrovna 's good friend – side with he .
' what be it ? ' say he mournfully .
' will not you go and try again , sir ?
by God 's grace you might make it up !
she suffer dreadfully ; it be pitiful to see she , and everything in the house be topsy - turvy .
you should consider the child !
own up , sir – it can not be help !
there be no joy without ... '
' but she will not admit I ! '
' do your part – God be merciful .
pray to he , sir , pray to he ! '
' all right – now go , ' say Oblonsky , suddenly blush . ' I must get dress , ' say he , turn to Matthew , and he resolutely throw off his dressing - gown .
Matthew blow some invisible speck off the shirt which he hold ready gather up like a horse 's collar , and with evident pleasure invest with it his master 's carefully tend body .
chapter III
when he be quite dressed Oblonsky sprinkle some scent on himself , pull down his cuff , and as usual distributing in different pocket his cigarette - case , match , pocket - book , and the watch with its double chain and bunch of charm , he shake out his handkerchief , and feel clean , sweet , healthy , and physically bright in spite of his misfortune , go with a slight spring in each step into the dining - room where his coffee stand ready . beside the coffee lie letter and paper from the Office .
he read the letter , one of which impress he unpleasantly .
it concern the sale of a forest on his wife 's estate , and come from a dealer who want to buy that forest .
this forest have to be sell ; but until he be reconcile with his wife the sale be quite out of the question .
what be most unpleasant be that a financial consideration would now be mix up with the impending reconciliation .
the idea that he might be bias by that consideration , might seek a reconciliation in order to sell the forest , offend he .
having look through his letter , Oblonsky draw the departmental paper toward he , and turn over the page of two file make a few note on they with a big pencil ; then push they aside , begin to drink his coffee . at the same time he unfold the still damp morning paper , and begin read .
Oblonsky subscribe to and read a liberal paper – not an extreme liberal paper but one that express the opinion of the majority .
and although neither science , art , nor politic specially interest he , he firmly hold to the opinion of the majority and of his paper on those subject , change his view when the majority change theirs , – or rather , not change they – they change imperceptibly of their own accord .
Oblonsky 's tendency and opinion be not his by deliberate choice : they come of themselves , just as he do not choose the fashion of his hat or coat but wear those of the current style .
live in a certain social set , and have a desire , such as generally develop with maturity , for some kind of mental activity , he be oblige to hold view , just as he be oblige to have a hat .
if he have a reason for prefer Liberalism to the Conservatism of many in his set , it be not that he consider Liberalism more reasonable , but because it suit his manner of life well .
the Liberal Party maintain that everything in Russia be bad , and it be a fact that Oblonsky have many debt and decidedly too little money .
the Liberal Party say that marriage be an obsolete institution which ought to be reform ; and family life really give Oblonsky very little pleasure , force he to tell lie and dissemble , which be quite contrary to his nature .
the Liberal Party say , or rather hint , that religion be only good as a check on the more barbarous portion of the population ; and Oblonsky really could not stand through even a short church service without pain in his foot , nor understand why one should use all that dreadful high - fly language about another world while one can live so merrily in this one . besides , Oblonsky be fond of a pleasant joke , and sometimes like to perplex a simple - minded man by observe that if you be go to be proud of your ancestry , why stop short at Prince Rurik and repudiate your old ancestor – the ape ?
thus Liberalism become habitual to Oblonsky , and he love his paper as he love his after - dinner cigar , for the slight mistiness it produce in his brain .
he read the lead article , which explain that in our time it be needless to raise the cry that radicalism be threaten to swallow up all conservative element and to maintain that the government should take measure to crush the hydra of revolution ; for , on the contrary , ' in our opinion the danger lie not in an imaginary hydra of revolution but in an obstinate cling to tradition which hamper progress , ' etc .
he also read the finance article in which Bentham and Mill be mention and hit be make at the Ministry .
with his natural quickness of perception . he understand the meaning of each hit , whence it come , for whom it be mean and what have provoke it , and this as usual give he a certain satisfaction .
but to - day the satisfaction be mar by the memory of Matrena Filimonovna 's advice , and of the fact that there be all this trouble in the house .
he go on to read that there be a rumour of Count Beust 's journey to Wiesbaden ; that there would be no more grey hair ; that a light brougham be for sale , and a young person offer her service ; but all this information do not give he the quiet , ironical pleasure it usually do .
having finish the paper , his second cup of coffee , and a buttered roll , he get up , flick some crumb off his waistcoat , and , expand his broad chest , smile joyfully , not because there be anything specially pleasant in his mind – no , the smile be but the result of a healthy digestion .
but that joyful smile at once bring everything back to his mind , and he grow thoughtful .
then he hear the sound of two childish voice outside the door , and recognize they as the voice of his eld daughter , Tanya , and of his little boy Grisha .
they be drag something along , and have upset it .
' I tell you not to put passenger on the roof , ' the girl shout in English . ' now pick they up ! '
' everything be disorganized , ' think Oblonsky ; ' here be the child run wild – ' and go to the door he call they in .
they leave the box , which represent a train , and come to their father .
the girl , her father 's pet , run boldly in , embrace he , and hang laugh on his neck , pleased , as she always be , to smell the familiar scent of his whisker .
having kiss his face , flush by stoop and light up by tenderness , the girl unclasped her hand and be go to run away , but he hold she back .
' how be Mama ? ' he ask , pass his hand over his daughter 's smooth delicate little neck , as he smilingly say ' good morning ' in answer to the little boy 's greeting .
he be conscious of not care as much for the boy as for the girl but do his good to treat they both alike . the boy feel this and do not respond to his father 's cold smile .
' mama ?
she be up , ' say the girl . Oblonsky sigh .
' that mean that she have again not sleep all night , ' he think .
' yes , but be she cheerful ? ' he add .
the girl know that her father and mother have quarrel , and that her mother could not be cheerful , and also that her father must know this , so that his put the question to she so lightly be all pretence , and she blush for he .
he notice this and blush too .
' I do not know , ' she say . ' she say we be not to have any lesson , but must walk with Miss Hull to Grandmamma 's . '
' well you may go , my little Tanyakin ...
oh , wait ! ' he say , still hold she and stroke her delicate little hand .
take a box of sweet from the mantelpiece where he have put it the day before , he choose two sweet which he know she like well , a chocolate and a coloured cream .
' for Grisha ? ' she ask , hold out the chocolate .
' yes , yes , ' and stroke her shoulder he kiss her hair at the root and her neck , and let she go .
' the carriage be ready , ' say Matthew , ' and there be a woman on business wait for you . '
' be here long ? '
' about half an hour . '
' how often must I tell you to let I know at once when anyone be here ? '
' but I must give you time to finish your coffee , ' answer Matthew in his friendly rude tone , with which it be impossible to be angry .
' well , ask she in at once , ' say Oblonsky , his face wrinkle with vexation .
the woman , widow of a petty official name Kalinin be petition for something impossible and absurd , but nevertheless Oblonsky , with his usual politeness , ask she to sit down and hear she attentively to the end , give her full instruction how and to whom to apply and even write briskly and fluently in his large , graceful and legible hand a little note to a personage who might be of use to she .
having dismiss she , he take his hat and pause to consider whether he have forget anything .
he find he have forget nothing but what he want to forget : his wife .
' oh yes ! '
his head drop , and his handsome face become worried .
' to go , or not to go ? ' he ask himself ; and his inner consciousness answer that he ought not to go : that it could only result in hypocrisy ; that it be impossible to restore their relation because it be impossible to render she attractive and capable of exciting love , or to turn he into an old man incapable of love .
nothing except hypocrisy and falsehood could now result – and these be repugnant to his nature .
' nevertheless it will have to be do soon or later . after all , thing can not remain as they be , ' he say , try to brace himself .
he expand his chest , take out a cigarette , light it , take two whiff , then throw it into a pearl - shell ash - tray , and cross the drawing - room with rapid step , he open the door which lead into his wife 's bedroom .
DARYA ALEXANDROVNA be there in a dressing - jacket , with her large frightened eye , make more prominent by the emaciation of her face , and her knot of thin plait of once luxurious and beautiful hair . the room be cover with scatter article , and she be stand among they before an open wardrobe , where she be engage in select something .
hear her husband 's step she stop and look at the door , vainly try to assume a severe and contemptuous expression .
she feel that she be afraid of he and afraid of the impending interview .
she be try to do what she have attempt ten time already during those three day , to sort out her own and her child 's clothe to take to her mother 's ; but she could not bring herself to do it , and say again as she have do after each previous attempt , that thing could not remain as they be – that she must do something to punish and humiliate he , and to revenge herself if only for a small part of the pain he have cause she . she still keep say that she would leave he , but feel that this be impossible .
it be impossible because she could not get out of the habit of regard he as her husband and of love he .
besides , she feel that if here , in her own home , it be all she could do to look after her five child properly , it would be still bad where she mean to take they .
as it be , during these three day the young have fall ill because they have give he sour broth , and the other have have hardly any dinner yesterday .
she feel that it be impossible for she to leave ; but still deceive herself , she go an sort the thing and pretend that she really would go .
on see her husband she thrust her arm into a drawer of the wardrobe as if look for something , and only when he have come close to she do she turn her face toward he . but her face , which she want to seem stern and determine , express only perplexity and suffering .
' dolly ! ' he say in a soft , timid voice . he draw his head down , wish to look pathetic and submissive , but all the same he shine with freshness and health .
with a rapid glance she take in his fresh and healthy figure from head to foot .
' yes , he be happy and content , ' she think , ' but what about I ? ... and that horrid good - nature of his which people love and praise so , how I hate it ! '
she press her lip together and a cheek - muscle twitch on the right side of her pale nervous face .
' what do you want ? ' she say quickly in a voice unlike her usual deep tone .
' dolly , ' he repeat unsteadily , ' Anna be come to - day . '
' what be that to do with I ?
I can not receive she ! ' she exclaim .
' but after all , Dolly , you really must , ' say he .
' go away , go away , go away ! ' she cry , as if in physical pain , without look at he .
Oblonsky could think calmly of his wife , could hope that ' thing would shape themselves ' as Matthew have say , and could calmly read his paper and drink his coffee , but when he see she wear , suffer face , and hear her tone , resign and despairing , he feel a choking sensation . a lump rise to his throat and tear glisten in his eye .
' oh , my God !
what have I do ?
dolly – for heaven 's sake ! ...
you know … ' he could not continue . his throat be choke with sob .
she slam the door of the wardrobe and look up at he .
' dolly , what can I say ? ...
only forgive I !
think , nine year ... can not they atone for a momentary – a momentary ... '
her eye droop and she wait to hear what he would say , as if entreat he to persuade she somehow that she have make a mistake .
' a momentary infatuation ... ' he say , and be go on , but at those word her lip tighten again as if with pain , and again the muscle in her right cheek begin to twitch .
' go away – go away from here ! ' she cry in a still shrill voice , ' and do not talk to I of your infatuation and all those horror ! '
she wish to go away , but stagger and hold on to the back of a chair to support herself .
his face broaden , his lip swell , and his eye fill with tear .
' dolly ! ' he say , now actually sob , ' for heaven 's sake think of the child – they have do nothing !
punish I – make I suffer for my sin ! tell I what to do – I be ready for anything .
I be the guilty one .
I have no word to express my guilt ...
but dolly , forgive I ! '
she sit down and he could hear she loud , heavy breathing . he feel unutterably sorry for she .
she try again and again to speak and could not .
he wait .
' you think of our child when you want to play with they , but I be always think of they , and know they be ruin now , ' she said , evidently repeat one of the phrase she have use to herself again and again during those three day .
but she have speak of ' our child , ' and look gratefully at she he move to take her hand ; but she step aside with a look of repugnance .
' I do think of the child , and would do anything in the world to save they ; but I do not know how to save they – whether by take they away from their father , or by leave they with a dissolute – yes , a dissolute father ...
tell I , do you think it possible for we to live together after what have happen ?
be it possible ?
say , be it possible ? ' she repeat , raise her voice . ' when my husband , the father of my child , have love affair with his child 's governess ? '
' but what be to be do ? – what be to be do ? ' say he , in a piteous voice , hardly know what he be say , and sink his head low and low .
' you be horrid and disgusting to I ! ' she shout , get more and more excited . ' your tear be – water !
you never love I ; you have no heart , no honour !
to I you be detestable , disgusting – a stranger , yes , a perfect stranger ! ' she utter that word stranger , so terrible to herself , with anguish and hatred .
he look at she and the hatred he see in her face frighten and surprise he .
he do not understand that his pity exasperate she .
she see in he pity for herself but not love .
' no , she hate I ; she will not forgive I , ' he think .
' it be awful , awful ! ' he mutter .
at that moment a child begin to cry in another room , probably having tumble down . Darya Alexandrovna listen , and her face soften suddenly .
she seem to be try to recollect herself , as if she do not know where she be or what she have to do . then she rise quickly and move toward the door .
' after all , she love my child , ' he think , notice the change in her face when the baby cry ; ' my child – then how can she hate I ? '
' dolly , just a word ! ' he say , follow she .
' if you follow I , I shall call the servant and the child !
I will let everybody know you be a scoundrel !
I be go away to - day , and you may live here with your mistress ! '
she go out , slam the door .
Oblonsky sigh , wipe his face , and with soft step leave the room .
' Matthew say " thing will shape themselves , " – but how ?
I do not even see a possibility ...
oh dear , the horror of it !
and her shout – it be so vulgar , ' he think , recall her scream and the word scoundrel and mistress . ' and the maid may have hear it !
it be dreadfully banal , dreadfully ! '
for a few second Oblonsky stand alone ; then he wipe his eye , sigh , and expand his chest go out of the room .
it be a Friday , the day on which a german clockmaker always come to wind up the clock .
see he in the dining - room , Oblonsky recollect a joke he have once make at the expense of this accurate baldheaded clockmaker , and he smile . ' the German , ' he have say , ' have be wind up for life to wind up clock . '
Oblonsky be fond of a joke .
' well , perhaps thing will shape themselves – " shape themselves " !
that be a good phrase , ' he think . ' I must use that . '
' Matthew ! ' he call , ' will you and Mary arrange everything for Anna Arkadyevna in the little sitting - room ? ' he add when Matthew appear .
' yes , sir . '
Oblonsky put on his fur coat , and go out into the porch .
' will you be home to dinner , sir ? ' say Matthew , as he show he out .
' I will see ...
oh , and here be some money , ' say he , take a ten - rouble note out of his pocket - book . ' will it be enough ? '
' enough or not , we shall have to manage , that be clear , ' say Matthew , close the carriage door and step back into the porch .
meanwhile Darya Alexandrovna after soothe the child , know from the sound of the carriage wheel that her husband have go , return to her bedroom . it be her only place of refuge from household care .
even now , during the few minute she have spend in the nursery the english governess and Matrena Filimonovna have find time to ask some question that could not be put off , and which she alone could answer . ' what should the child wear when they go out ?
' oh , do leave I alone ! ' she cry ; and return to her bedroom she sit down where she have sit when talk with her husband . lock together her thin finger , on which her ring hang loosely , she go over in her mind the whole of their conversation .
' gone !
but how do he finish with she ? ' she think .
' be it possible that he still see she ?
why do not I ask he ?
oh , no ! it be impossible to be reunite ...
even if we go on live in the same house , we be stranger – stranger for ever ! ' she repeat , specially emphasize the word that be so dreadful to she . ' and how I love he !
oh God , how I love he ! ...
how I love – and do not I love he now ?
do not I love he more than ever ?
the most terrible thing ... ' she do not finish the thought , because Matrena Filimonovna thrust her head in at the door .
' had not I well send for my brother ? ' she say . ' after all , he can cook a dinner , – or else the child will go without food till six o'clock , as they do yesterday . '
' all right ! I will come and see about it in a moment ...
have the milk be send for ? '
and Darya Alexandrovna plunge into her daily care , and for a time drown her grief in they .
OBLONSKY 'S NATURAL ability have helped HIM to do well at school , but mischief and laziness have cause he to finish very low in his year 's class . yet in spite of his dissipate life , his unimportant service rank , and his comparative youth , he occupy a distinguished and well - pay post as Head of one of the Government Boards in Moscow .
this post he have obtain through Alexis Alexandrovich Karenin , his sister Anna 's husband , who hold one of the most important position in the Ministry to which that Moscow Board belong . but even if Karenin have not nominate his brother - in - law for that post , Steve Oblonsky , through one of a hundred other person – brother , sister , relation , cousin , uncle or aunt – would have obtain this or a similar post with a salary of some 6000 rouble a year , which he need because in spite of his wife 's substantial mean his affair be in a bad way .
half Moscow and half Petersburg be his relation or friend . he be bear among those who be or who become the great one of this world .
one third of the official world , the old man , be his father 's friend and have know he in petticoat , he be on intimate term with another third , and be well acquaint with the last third .
consequently the distributor of earthly blessing , such as government post , grant , concession , and the like , be all his friend . they could not overlook one who belong to they , so that Oblonsky have no special difficulty in obtain a lucrative post ; he have only not to raise any objection , not to be envious , not to quarrel , and not to take offence – all thing which , be naturally good - tempered , he never do .
it would have seem to he ridiculous have he be tell that he would not get a post with the salary he require ; especially as he do not demand anything extraordinary . he only want what other man of his age and set be get ; and he could fill such an office as well as anybody else .
Oblonsky be not only like by every one who know he for his kind and joyous nature and his undoubted honesty , but there be something in he – in his handsome and bright appearance , his beam eye , black hair and eyebrow , and his white - and - rosy complexion , that have a physical effect on those he meet , make they feel friendly and cheerful .
' ah !
Steve Oblonsky !
here he be ! ' say almost every one he meet , smilingly .
even if conversation with he sometimes cause no special delight , still the next day , or the next , every one be as pleased as ever to meet he .
it be the third year that Oblonsky have be Head of that Government Board in Moscow , and he have win not only the affection but also the respect of his fellow - official , subordinate , chief , and all who have anything to do with he .
the chief quality that have win he this general respect in his office be , first , his extreme leniency , found on a consciousness of his own defect ; secondly , his true liberalism – not that of which he read in his paper , but that which be in his blood and make he treat all man alike whatever their rank or official position ; thirdly and chiefly , his complete indifference to the business he be engage on , in consequence of which he be never carry away by enthusiasm and never make mistake .
having arrive at his destination , Oblonsky ; respectfully follow by the door - keeper bear his portfolio , enter his little private room , put on his uniform , and come out into the Office .
the clerk and attendant all rise and bow cheerfully and respectfully .
Oblonsky walk quickly , as be his wo not , to his place , shake hand with the member , and sit down .
he chat and joke just as much as be proper and then turn to business .
no one could determine well than he the limit of freedom , simplicity , and formality , necessary for the pleasant transaction of business .
the Secretary come up with the paper , cheerfully and respectfully like everybody in Oblonsky 's Office , and remark in the familiarly liberal tone introduce by Oblonsky :
' after all , we 've manage to get that information from the Penza Provincial Office .
here – will you please ... '
' got it at last ? ' say Oblonsky , hold this paper down with his finger . ' well , gentleman ... ' and the sitting commence .
' if they only know , ' he think , bow his head gravely as he listen to a Report , ' how like a guilty little boy their President be half - an - hour ago ! ... ' and his eye sparkle while the Report be be read .
till two o'clock the business be to continue uninterruptedly , but at two there be to be an adjournment for lunch .
it be not quite two when the large glass door suddenly swing open and some one come in .
all the member from beneath the Emperor 's portrait and from behind the Mirror of Justice , glad of some distraction , look toward the door ; but the door - keeper at once turn out the intruder and close the glass door behind he .
when the Report have be read , Oblonsky rise , stretch himself , and , pay tribute to the Liberalism of the time , take out a cigarette before leave the Office to go to his private room .
two of his colleague – Nikitin , an old hard - work official , and Grinevich , a Gentleman of the Bedchamber – follow he out .
' we shall have time to finish after lunch , ' say Oblonsky .
' plenty of time ' say Nikitin .
' he must be a precious rogue , that Fomin , ' say Grinevich , refer to one of those concern in the case under consideration .
Oblonsky make a face at these word , thereby indicate that it be not right to form an opinion prematurely , and do not reply .
' who be it come in ? ' he ask the door - keeper .
' some man come in without permission , your Excellency , when I be not look .
he ask for you .
I tell he , " when the member come out , then ... " - '
' where be he ? '
' perhaps he have go out into the hall ; he be walk about there just now .
that be he , ' say the door - keeper pointing to a strongly - build broad - shoulder man with a curly beard , who , without take off his sheep - skin cap , be run lightly and quickly up the wear step of the stone staircase .
a lanky official , go down with a portfolio , stop , with a disapproving look at the foot of the man run upstairs , and then glance inquiringly at Oblonsky , who be stand at the top of the stair .
his kindly face , beam over the gold - embroider collar of his uniform , grow still more radiant when he recognize the man who be come up .
' yes , it be he !
Levin , at last ! ' he say , scrutinize the approach Levin with a friendly mocking smile . ' how be it you deign to look I up in this den ? ' he ask ; and not content with press his friend 's hand , he kiss he .
' I 've only just arrive , and be very anxious to see you , ' answer Levin , look round with constraint , and yet crossly and uneasily .
' well then , come into my room , ' say Oblonsky , who know his friend 's self - conscious and irritable shyness ; and seize he by the arm he lead he along as if past some danger .
Oblonsky be on intimate term with almost all his acquaintance , man of sixty and lad of twenty , actor , Ministers of State , tradesman , and Lords in Waiting , so that a great many people on familiar term with he stand at the two extreme of the social ladder and would have be much surprised to know that they have something in common through Oblonsky .
he be on familiar term with everybody he drink champagne with , and he drink champagne with everybody . but when in the presence of his subordinate he happen to meet any of his ' disreputable pal , ' as he jocularly call they , he be able , with his innate tact , to minimize the impression such a meeting might leave on their mind .
Levin be not a ' disreputable pal , ' but Oblonsky feel that Levin imagine he might not care to show their intimacy in the presence of the subordinate , and that be why he hurry he into his private room .
Levin and Oblonsky be almost of the same age ; and with Levin , Oblonsky be on familiar term not through champagne only .
Levin have be his comrade and friend in early youth , and they be fond of one another as friend who have come together in early youth often be , in spite of the difference in their character and taste .
yet , as often happen between man who have choose different pursuit , each , while in argument justify the other 's activity , despise it in the depth of his heart .
each thought that his own way of living be real life , and that the life of his friend be – illusion .
Oblonsky could not repress a slightly sarcastic smile at the sight of Levin .
how many time he have already see he arrive in Moscow from the country , where he do something , though what it be Oblonsky could never quite understand or feel any interest in .
Levin come to Moscow always excited , always in a hurry , rather shy and irritated by his own shyness , and usually with totally new and unexpected view about thing .
Oblonsky laugh at all this , and yet like it .
similarly , Levin in his heart despise the town life his friend be lead , and his official duty which he consider futile and ridicule .
but the difference be that Oblonsky , do as every one else do , laugh with confidence and good humour , while Levin laugh uncertainly and sometimes angrily .
' we have long be expect you , ' say Oblonsky enter his private room and release Levin 's arm , as if to show that here all danger be past . ' I be very , very glad to see you ! ' continue he .
' well , how be you , eh ?
when do you arrive ? '
Levin look silently at the face of the two stranger , Oblonsky 's colleague , and especially at the hand of the elegant Grinevich , who have such long white finger and such long yellowish nail curve at the point , and such large glitter sleeve - link , that evidently his hand occupy his whole attention and deprive he of freedom of thought .
Oblonsky at once notice Levin 's look and smile .
' oh , of course ! let I introduce you , ' he say . ' my colleague : Philip Ivanich Nikitin ; Michael Stanislavich Grinevich . ' then turn to Levin , ' Constantine Dmitrich Levin , an active member of the Zemstvo , one of the new sort – a gymnast who lift a hundredweight and a half with one hand , a cattle - breeder , a sportsman , – my friend , and a brother of Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev . '
' very pleased ... ' say the old official ..
' I have the honour of know your brother , Sergius Ivanich , ' say Grinevich , hold out his narrow hand with the long fingernail .
Levin frown , shake hand coldly , and immediately turn to Oblonsky .
though Levin have great respect for his step - brother , an author know throughout Russia , he hate to be regard not as Constantine Levin but as a brother of the famous Koznyshev .
' no , I be no long on the Zemstvo – I have quarrel with the lot of they , and do not attend their meeting any more , ' say he , address his friend .
' quick work ! ' say Oblonsky , with a smile . ' what be it all about ? '
' it be a long story – I will tell you some other time , ' say Levin , but at once begin tell it . ' to put it in a nutshell , I have come to the conclusion that there be , and can be , no such thing as Zemstvo work , ' he say , speak as if some one have just offend he .
on the other hand ... ' he hesitate , ' it be a means of get pelf for the provincial coterie ! we use to have guardianship and judgeship as soft job , and now we 've Zemstvos – not bribe , but unearned salary ! ' he go on as warmly as if he have just be contradict .
' Aha !
I see you 've reach another new phase – a conservative one this time ! ' say Oblonsky . ' however , we will talk about that later . '
' yes , later ! ...
but I want to see you , ' say Levin , gaze with aversion at Grinevich 's hand .
Oblonsky 's smile be hardly perceptible .
' do not you tell I you would never again put on western european clothe ? ' he ask , survey Levin 's new suit , evidently make by a french tailor . ' that be it ! you be in a new phase . '
Levin suddenly blush , not as grow - up people blush who hardly notice it themselves , but as boy blush who be aware that their shyness be ridiculous and therefore feel ashamed of it and blush still more , almost to tear .
it be so strange to see that intelligent manly face in such a childish condition that Oblonsky leave off look at he .
' where shall we see one another ?
you know it be very , very important for I to have a talk with you , ' say Levin .
Oblonsky seem to consider :
' well – suppose we go to lunch at Gurin 's and have a talk there ?
I be free till three . '
' no , ' say Levin , after a moment 's consideration ; ' I have to go somewhere else . '
' well then , let us dine together . '
' dine ?
but I 've nothing particular to say – only a word or two ... to ask you something ! we can have a talk some other time . '
' well , tell I the word or two now , and we will talk at dinner . '
' the two word be ... however , it be nothing particular , ' say Levin , and his face become almost vicious in his effort to overcome his shyness .
' what be the Shcherbatskys do ?
all go on as usual ? '
Oblonsky , who have long know that Levin be in love with his , Oblonsky 's , sister - in - law Kitty , smile very slightly and his eye sparkle merrily .
' you speak of two word , but I can not answer in two because ...
excuse I a moment ... '
the Secretary come in , familiarly respectful , though with a certain modest consciousness ( common to all secretary ) of his superiority to his chief in knowledge of business affair , approach Oblonsky with some paper and on the plea of ask a question begin to explain some difficulty .
Oblonsky , without hear he to the end , put his hand in a kindly way on the Secretary 's sleeve and , soften his remark with a smile , say :
' no ; please do it as I say , ' and , have in a few word explain his view of the matter , he push the paper away and say finally : ' yes , please do it that way , Zachary Nikitich ! '
the Secretary go out , abash .
Levin , who during Oblonsky 's talk with the Secretary have quite overcome his shyness , stand lean both arm on the back of a chair and listen with ironical attention .
' I do not understand it at all ! ' he remark .
' what do not you understand ? ' ask Oblonsky with his usual merry smile , as he take out a cigarette .
he expect Levin to say something eccentric .
' I do not understand what you be do , ' say Levin shrug his shoulder . ' how can you do it seriously ? '
' why not ? '
' because there be nothing to do ! '
' that be how it seem to you , but really we be overwhelmed with work . '
' - on paper !
ah well ! you 've a gift for that sort of thing , ' add Levin .
' you mean I be deficient in something ? '
' perhaps ! ' say Levin . ' but all the same I admire your dignity and be proud that my friend be such a great man !
but all the same you 've not answer my question , ' he add , make a desperate effort to look Oblonsky straight in the face .
' all right ! all right !
wait a bit , and you would be in the same position yourself .
it be all very well for you , who have three thousand desyatin in the Karazin District , and such muscle , and be as fresh as a twelve - year - old girl ! but still , you will be join we yourself some day ! ...
now , about what you be ask : nothing have change , but it be a pity you 've stop away so long . '
' why ? ' ask Levin in alarm .
' oh , nothing – ' answer Oblonsky . ' we will talk it over later on .
but what have bring you here specially ? '
' we will talk about that too later on , ' say Levin and again blush to his very ear .
' all right , that be natural enough ! ' say Oblonsky . ' well , you know , I would ask you to come to we , but my wife be not very well .
let us see , – if you want to meet they , you will be sure to find they in the Zoological Gardens from four to five .
Kitty skate there .
go there , and I will call for you and we will dine somewhere together . '
' splendid ! well then , au revoir ! '
' mind you do not forget ! I know you – you may rush off back to the country ! ' shout Oblonsky after he .
' that will be all right ! ' say Levin and leave the room , only recollect when already at the door that he have not take leave of Oblonsky 's colleague .
' he seem a very energetic man , ' say Grinevich when Levin be go .
' yes , my dear fellow , ' say Oblonsky , shake his head , ' and he be a lucky man !
three thousand desyatin in the Karazin District , his life before he , and such freshness !
not like some of we ! '
' what have you to complain of , Stephen Arkadyevich ? '
' oh , thing be wretched , miserable ! ' say Oblonsky , and sigh heavily .
when OBLONSKY ASKED LEVIN his reason for come to town , Levin have blush and be angry with himself for blushing , because he could not answer : ' I have come to propose to your sister - in - law , ' although he really have come solely for that purpose .
the Levins and the Shcherbatskys be two old aristocratic Moscow family that have always be on intimate and friendly term .
their tie be draw still close during Levin 's University day .
he have prepare for and enter the University together with young Prince Shcherbatsky , Dolly 's and Kitty 's brother .
at that time Levin often visit the Shcherbatskys , and fall in love with the family .
strange as it may seem , it be the whole Shcherbatsky family – especially the feminine half of it – that Levin be in love with .
he could not remember his mother , and his sister be much his senior , so that in the Shcherbatskys ' house he see for the first time the family life of a well - educate and honourable family of the old aristocracy – a life such as he have be deprive of by the death of his own father and mother .
all the member of that family , especially the woman , appear to he as though wrap in some mystic poetic veil , and he not only see no defect in they , but imagine behind that poetic veil the lofty feeling and every possible perfection .
why these three young lady have to speak French and English on alternate day ; why at a give time they play , each in her turn , on the piano ( the sound of which reach their brother 's room where the student be at work ) ; why those master of french literature , music , drawing , and dancing come to the house ; why at certain hour the three young lady accompany by Mademoiselle Linon be drive in a calèche to the Tverskoy Boulevard , wear satin cloaks ( dolly a long one ; Nataly a somewhat short one ; and Kitty so short a cloak that her shapely little leg in their tight red stocking be quite expose ) ; why they have to walk up and down the Tverskoy Boulevard accompany by a footman with a gilt cockade in his hat , – all this and much more that happen in this mystic world he do not understand ; but he know that everything do there be beautiful and he be in love with the very mystery of it all .
in his student day he very nearly fall in love with the eld daughter , dolly ; but a marriage be soon after arrange between she and Oblonsky .
then he begin fall in love with the second daughter .
he seem to feel that he must fall in love with one of the sister , but he be not sure with which .
but Nataly too , as soon as she come out , marry the diplomat , Lvov .
Kitty be still a child when Levin finish at the University .
Young Shcherbatsky who enter the navy be drown in the Baltic ; and after that , in spite of his friendship with Oblonsky , Levin 's intercourse with the Shcherbatskys become less frequent .
but when he have come to Moscow early in the winter of this year and meet they , he know at last which of the three sister he be really fate to love .
it would seem that nothing could be simple than for he , a man of good family , rich rather than poor , and thirty - two year of age to propose to the Princess Shcherbatskaya . in all likelihood he would have be consider quite a suitable match .
but Levin be in love , and therefore Kitty seem to he so perfect in every respect , so transcend everything earthly , and he seem to himself so very earthly and insignificant a creature , that the possibility of his be consider worthy of she by other or by herself be to he unimaginable .
having spend two month in Moscow , live as in a fog , meet Kitty almost every day in Society which he begin to frequent in order to meet she , he suddenly make up his mind that it be impossible , and return to the country .
Levin 's conviction that it be impossible rest on the idea that from her relative ' point of view he be not a good or suitable match for the delightful Kitty , and that Kitty herself could not love he .
from her parent ' standpoint ( it seem to he ) he have no settle occupation or position in the world . he be thirty - two , and while his former comrade be already colonel , aide - de - camp , Bank and Railway director , or Heads of Government Boards like Oblonsky , he ( he know very well what other must think of he ) be merely a country squire , spend his time breeding cow , shoot snipe , and erect building – that be to say , a fellow without talent , who have come to no good and be only do what in the opinion of Society good - for - nothing people always do .
of course the mysterious , enchanting Kitty could not love a plain fellow , such as he consider himself to be , a man so ordinary and undistinguished .
moreover , his former relation to Kitty have be that of a grow - up man towards a child whose brother 's friend he be , and this seem an additional obstacle in love 's path .
he think a plain kindly fellow like himself might be love as a friend , but to be love with the kind of love he feel for Kitty , a man must be handsome and above all remarkable .
he have hear that woman often love plain ordinary man but he do not believe it , because he judge by himself and he could only love beautiful mysterious exceptional woman .
but after spend two month alone in the country he become convinced that this time he be not in love as he have be when quite young – for his present feeling give he not a moment 's rest – and that he could not live unless the question whether she be to be his wife or not be decide ; also that his despair have be the outcome of his own fancy , and that he have no proof that he would be reject .
so he have now come to Moscow determine to propose to she , and to marry she if he be accept .
or ... but he dared not think what would happen if she refuse he .
having reach MOSCOW by a MORNING TRAIN , Levin go to stay at the house of his half - brother Koznyshev , who be old than he , and after change his clothe enter his brother 's study , intend to tell he why he have come and to ask his advice .
but his brother be not alone . a well - know professor of philosophy be with he , who have come specially from Kharkov to settle a dispute that have arise between they on an important philosophical question .
the professor be engage in a fierce polemic against the materialist , and Sergius Koznyshev , who follow this polemic with interest , on read the professor 's last article have write to he reproach he with having concede too much to the materialist ; and the professor have come at once to talk the matter over .
the question be the fashionable one , whether a definite line exist between psychological and physiological phenomenon in human activity ; and if so , where it lie ?
when Levin enter , Sergius Ivanich greet he with the coldly affable smile he bestow on everybody and , having introduce he to the professor , go on with the discussion .
the small spectacled man with the narrow forehead interrupt the conversation a moment to say , ' how do you do ' to Levin and , pay no further attention to he , go on talk .
Levin sit down to wait till the professor should go , but soon become interested in the subject of their conversation .
he have see in the paper the article they be discuss , and have read they because they interest he as a development of the basis of natural science – familiar to he as he have study in that faculty at the University but he have never connect these scientific deduction as to man 's animal origin , reflex action , biology and sociology , with those question concern the meaning to himself of life and death , which have of late more and more frequently occur to he .
listen to his brother 's conversation with the professor , he notice that they connect the scientific question with the spiritual and several time almost reach the latter , but every time they approach this , which seem to he the most important question , they at once hurriedly retreat and again plunge into the domain of fine sub - division , reservation , quotation hint and reference to authority ; and he find it difficult to understand what they be talk about .
' I can not admit , ' say Koznyshev with his usual clear and precise expression and polished style , ' I can not on any account agree with Keiss that my whole conception of the external world be the outcome of impression .
the most fundamental perception – that of existence – be not receive through the sense , for there be no special organ to convey that perception . '
' yes , but they ( Wurst and Knaust and Pripasov ) will tell you that your conception of existence result from the collective effect of all your sensation and be therefore a result of sensation .
Wurst actually say that without the sense there can be no perception of existence . '
' I would maintain the opposite ... ' begin Koznyshev .
but here again it seem to Levin that having reach the most important matter they avoid it ; and he make up his mind to ask the professor a question .
' consequently , if my sense be destroy , if my body die , no further existence be possible ? ' he ask .
the professor , vex and apparently mentally hurt by the interruption , turn to look at this strange questioner who resemble a barge - hauler rather than a philosopher , and then look at Koznyshev , as if ask , ' what can one say to this ? '
but Koznyshev , who do not speak with anything like the same effort , or as one - sidedly , as the professor , and have room in his head for an answer to his opponent as well as for comprehension of the simple and natural point of view from which the question arise , smile and say :
' that question we have as yet no right to decide ... '
' we have not the data ... ' add the professor and go back to his argument . ' no , ' say he ; ' I point out that if , as Pripasov definitely state , sensation be base on impression , we must still carefully distinguish between these two perception . '
Levin listen no long but sat wait for the professor to go .
when the PROFESSOR have GONE , Koznyshev turn to his step - brother .
' I be very glad you have come .
be you here for long ?
how do you get on with your farming ? '
Levin know that farming do not interest his elder brother and that the question be merely a concession , therefore he reply generally as to the sale of wheat and money matter .
he want to tell his brother of his intend marriage and to ask his advice . he have even firmly make up his mind to do so , but when he see his brother and hear his conversation with the professor , and afterward notice the involuntarily patronizing tone in which he ask he about the business of their estate ( this estate which they have jointly inherit from their mother have not be divide , and Levin be manage the whole of it ) , he feel that something prevent he from begin to speak to his brother about his intention to marry .
he feel that his brother would not look at the matter as he wish he to .
' well , and how be your Zemstvo get on ? ' ask Koznyshev , who take a keen interest in the rural administration and attach great importance to it .
' I really do not know . '
' what ?
but you be a member ? '
' no , I be no long on it . I resign , ' answer Levin , ' and do not attend the meeting any more . '
' that be a pity ! ' say Koznyshev , and frown .
to justify himself Levin begin to relate what use to happen at the meeting in his district .
' there now ! it be always the same , ' interrupt Koznyshev .
' we Russians be always like that . it may be a good trait in we – this capacity to see our own fault – but we overdo it , and comfort ourselves with sarcasm , which be always ready on our tongue .
I can only tell you , that with such right as we have in our rural institution , any other european nation – the English or the Germans – would have secure their freedom , while we only jeer at our Zemstvos ! '
' but what be to be do ? ' say Levin guiltily . ' that be my last attempt .
and I try with my whole soul .
but I can not do it !
I be incapable . '
' incapable ! ' say Koznyshev . ' no , you do not look at it from the right point of view . '
' that may be , ' say Levin mournfully .
' do you know that our brother Nicholas be here again ? '
Nicholas be Constantine Levin 's eld brother , and Koznyshev 's half - brother . he be a ruin man who have squander the great part of his fortune , mix with the strange and bad society , and quarrel with his brother .
' you do not mean to say so ! ' cry Levin , horror - strike .
' how do you know ? '
' Prokofy meet he in the street . '
' here , in Moscow ?
where be he ?
do you know ? ' Levin rise from his chair as if mean to go at once .
' I be sorry I tell you , ' say Koznyshev , shake his head at his brother 's excitement . ' I send to find out where he be live , and forward he a note of hand he have give to Trubin , which I have pay .
and this be the answer I receive . '
Koznyshev take a note from under a paper - weight and hand it to his brother .
Levin read the note , write in a curious but familiar hand : ' I humbly beg you to leave I alone .
that be all I demand of my dear brother . – NICHOLAS LEVIN . '
when Levin have read the note , hold it in his hand , he remained stand in front of Koznyshev without lift his head .
a struggle be go on within he between the desire to forget his unfortunate brother for the present , and the consciousness that this would be wrong .
' he evidently want to offend I , ' continue Koznyshev , ' but he can not do that . I wish with all my heart I could help he , but I know it can not be do . '
' yes , yes , ' say Levin , ' I understand , and appreciate your attitude toward he ; but personally I shall go to see he . '
' go if you like , but I do not advise it , ' say Koznyshev . ' that be to say , I be not afraid of it on my own account , he will not make mischief between we , but on your account I do not advise it .
you have well not go .
it be impossible to help he . however , do as you please ! '
' it may be impossible to help he , but I feel – especially at this moment ... but that be a different matter – I feel that I can not be at peace ... '
' well , I do not understand that , ' say Koznyshev . ' but what I do understand be a lesson in humility .
I have begin to look differently , more leniently , at what be call rascality , since brother Nicholas become what he be .
do you know what he have do ? '
' ah , it be dreadful , dreadful ! ' Levin repeat .
having get the address from Koznyshev 's footman Levin think of go at once to see his brother ; but , on reflection , decide to put off the visit till the evening .
to obtain peace of mind it be necessary first of all to decide the business that have bring he to Moscow .
he therefore go to Oblonsky 's office , and having receive news of the Shcherbatskys he drive to the place where he be tell he could see Kitty .
at FOUR o'clock that AFTERNOON LEVIN , conscious that his heart be beat rapidly , get out of the hire sledge at the Zoological Gardens and go down the path lead to the ice - hill and skating lake , sure of find Kitty there , for he have notice the Shcherbatskys ' carriage at the entrance . it be a clear frosty day . carriage , private sledge , sledge for hire , and mount police stand at the entrance .
well - dress people , their hat shine in the sunlight , crowd at the gate and throng the clean - sweep path between little house build with carve eave in russian style . the bushy birch tree in the Garden with all their branch weigh down by snow seem attired in new festive garment .
he walk along the path lead to the skating lake , and keep repeat to himself ' I must not be excited .
I must be quiet ! ...
what be you do ?
what be the matter ? be quiet , stupid ! ' he say to his heart .
but the more he try to be calm , the more laboured grow his breath .
he meet an acquaintance who call to he , but Levin do not even notice who it be .
he approach the ice - hill and hear the clanking of the chain by which the sledge be be pull up , their clatter as they descend the hill , and the sound of merry voice .
a few more step bring he to the skating lake , and among all the skater he at once recognize she .
he know she be there by the joy and terror that take possession of his heart .
she stand talk to a lady at the other end of the lake .
there seem to be nothing strike in her dress or attitude , but it be as easy for Levin to recognize she in that crowd as to find a rose among nettle .
everything be light up by she .
she be the smile that brighten everything around .
' can I really step down on to the ice , and go up to she ? ' he think .
the spot where she stand seem to he an unapproachable sanctuary , and there be a moment when he nearly go away , he be so fill with awe .
he have to make an effort and reason with himself that all sort of people be pass near she and he himself might have come just to skate .
he step down , avoid any long look at she as one avoid long look at the sun , but see she as one see the sun , without look .
on that day of the week and at that hour , people belong to the same set and acquaint with one another , meet on the ice .
among they be master of the art of skating show off their skill , and beginner with timid and awkward movement hold on to the back of chair fit with runner ; boy , and old man skate for hygienic reason ; and they all seem to Levin to be fortune 's favourite because they be here near she .
yet skater appear quite calmly to gain on she , to catch she up , and even speak to she , and quite independently of she to amuse themselves enjoy the excellent ice and the fine weather .
Nicholas Shcherbatsky , Kitty 's cousin , in a short jacket , tight trouser , with skate on his foot , be sit on a bench , and see Levin , call out to he .
' Hullo you russian champion skater !
when do you come ?
the ice be splendid – put on your skate ! '
' I have not any skate , ' answer Levin , wonder at such boldness and freedom of manner in her presence and not lose sight of she for a moment although not look at she .
he feel the sun approach he .
she be turn a corner , her little foot , shod in high boot , keep close together , and she be skate timidly toward he . a little boy dress in a russian costume , violently swinge his arm and stoop very low , be overtake she .
she be not very firm on her foot . having draw her hand from the muff that hang by a cord from her neck , she hold they out and look at Levin , whom she have recognize , she smile at he and at her fear .
having turn the corner , she push off with an elastic little foot , glide straight up to Shcherbatsky , and catch hold of he with her hand , nod smilingly to Levin .
she be more beautiful than he have imagine she .
when he think about she he could vividly picture to himself her entire person , and especially the charm of her small , fair - haired head , so lightly poise on the shapely girlish shoulder , and the childlike brightness and kindness of her face .
in that childlike look , combine with the slim beauty of her figure , lie her special charm ; and this he thoroughly appreciate , but what always strike he afresh as unexpected be the expression of her eye – mild , calm , and truthful – and above all her smile , which carry he into a fairyland where he feel soften and fill with tenderness – as he remember feel on rare occasion in his early childhood .
' have you be here long ? ' she say , shake hand with he . ' thank you , ' she add as he pick up the handkerchief she have drop from her muff .
' I ? no , not long – since yesterday ... I mean to - day ... ' reply Levin , in his excitement not quite take in her question . ' I want to come and see you , ' he go on , and then , remember the reason why he want to see she he became abash , and blush . ' I do not know that you skate , and so well . '
she look attentively at he as if wish to understand his confusion .
' your praise be valuable .
there be a tradition here that you be the good skater , ' she say , flick off with a small black - gloved hand some hoar - frost crystal that have fall on her muff .
' yes , I use to be passionately fond of skating . I want to be perfect at it . '
' you seem to do everything passionately , ' she remark with a smile . ' I should so like to see you skate .
put on a pair and let we skate together . '
' skate together !
can it be possible ? ' think Levin look at she .
' I will go and put they on at once , ' he say , and go to hire some skate .
' you 've not look we up for a long time , sir , ' say one of the attendant as , hold up Levin 's foot , he bore a hole in the heel of his boot . ' since you leave we have have no gentleman who be such a master at it as you !
be that right ? ' he add , pull the strap tight .
' yes , that be right , that be right ! please be quick ! ' answer Levin , try to restrain the happy smile which appear on his face .
' yes , ' he think , ' this be life – this be joy !
she say , " together : let we skate together " !
shall I tell she now ?
but that be just why I be afraid of speak . now I be happy , if only in my hope – but then ? ...
but I must ...
I must ... I must ... !
away with this weakness ! '
he stand up , take off his overcoat , and having give himself a start on the rough ice near the shelter , glide down to the smooth surface of the lake , increase and diminish his speed and shape his course as if by volition only .
he approach Kitty timidly , but her smile again tranquillize he .
she give he her hand and they go on together , increase their speed , and the fast they go the close she press his hand .
' I should learn quick with you , for some reason – feel confidence in you , ' she say .
' and I be confident of myself when you lean on I , ' he answer , and be immediately frightened of what he have say , and blush .
and in fact , as soon as he have utter these word her face lose its kind expression – as when the sun hide behind a cloud – and Levin notice that familiar play of her feature which indicate an effort of mind : a wrinkle appear on her smooth forehead .
' have anything unpleasant happen ... ?
but I have no right to ask , ' he say hurriedly .
' why ? ...
no , nothing unpleasant have happen , ' she answer coldly , add immediately : ' you have not see Mlle Linon ? '
' not yet . '
' go to she then , she be so fond of you . '
' what do she mean ?
I have hurt she .
help I , o Lord ! ' think Levin , hasten toward the old Frenchwoman with the grey curl ; who sit on one of the bench .
she welcome Levin as an old friend , show her set of false tooth in a smile .
' yes , you see we grow up , ' she say , indicate Kitty with a glance , ' and grow old .
" tiny Bear " be grow up ! ' continue the Frenchwoman , laugh and remind he of his old joke when he call the three young lady the Three Bears of the english fairy tale . ' do you remember when you use to call she so ? '
he have not the faint recollection of it , but she be fond of the joke and have laugh at it for the last ten year .
' well , go – go and skate !
our Kitty be begin to skate nicely , be not she ? '
when Levin return to Kitty her face be no long stern and her eye have their former truthful , kindly look but he think there be an intentionally quiet manner in her affability and he feel sad .
having speak about her old governess and her peculiarity , she ask he about his way of life .
' do you really manage not to feel dull in the country in winter ? ' she say .
' I do not feel at all dull , I be very busy , ' he answer , conscious that she be subdue he to her quiet tone , from which – as have happen at the beginning of the winter – he would not be able to free himself .
' have you come for long ? ' ask Kitty .
' I do not know , ' he answer , without think of what he be say .
the idea that if he accept her tone of calm friendliness he would again go away without having settle anything occur to he , and he determine to rebel .
' you do not know ? '
' I do not .
it all depend on you , ' he say , and be at once terrify at his own word .
whether she have not hear his word or do not wish to hear they , anyhow , after slightly stumble and strike her foot twice against the ice , she skate hurriedly away from he toward Mlle Linon , say something to she , and go toward the little house where the lady take off their skate .
' my God ! what have I do ?
o Lord , help I and teach I ! ' pray Levin , and feel at the same time a need of violent exercise , he get up speed and describe inner and outer circle .
just then a young man , the good of the new skater , with a cigarette in his mouth and skate on , come out of the coffee - room , and take a run , descend the step lead to the lake , clatter with his skate as he jump from step to step .
he then fly down the slope and glide along the ice without so much as change the easy position of his arm .
' oh , that be a new trick ! ' say Levin , and at once run up to try that new trick .
' do not hurt yourself – it need practice ! ' Nicholas Shcherbatsky call out .
Levin go up the path as far back as he could to get up speed , and then slide downwards , balance himself with his arm in this unaccustomed movement .
he catch his foot on the last step , but , scarcely touch the ice with his hand , make a violent effort , regain his balance , and skate away laugh .
' good ! dear man ! ' think Kitty who at that moment be just come out of the little house with Mlle Linon , look at he with a smile of gentle tenderness as at a dear brother .
' can I really be guilty – have I really do anything wrong ?
they say it be coquetting ...
I know it be not he I love , but still I feel happy with he , he be so charming !
only why do he say that ? ' she think .
when he see Kitty who be go away , and her mother who have meet she on the step , Levin , flush with the violent exercise , stand still and consider .
he then take off his skate and overtake mother and daughter at the gate of the Gardens .
' very pleased to see you , ' say the Princess . ' we be at home on Thursdays , as usual . '
' and to - day be Thursday ! '
' we shall be glad to see you , ' say the Princess drily .
Kitty be sorry to hear that dry tone and could not resist the desire to counteract her mother 's coldness .
she turn her head and say smilingly :
' Au revoir ! '
just then Oblonsky , his hat tilt on one side , with radiant face and eye , walk into the Gardens like a joyous conqueror .
but on approach his mother - in - law he answer her question about Dolly 's health with a sorrowful and guilty air : after a few word with she in a subdued and mournful tone , he expand his chest and take Levin 's arm .
' well , shall we go ? ' he ask . ' I keep think about you , and be very , very glad you 've come , ' he go on , look significantly into Levin 's eye .
' yes , yes ! let us go , ' answer the happy Levin , still hear the voice say : ' Au revoir ! ' and still see the smile with which it have be say .
' the Angleterre , or the hermitage ? '
' I do not care . '
' well then , the Angleterre , ' say Oblonsky , choose the Angleterre because he be deep in debt to that restaurant than to the Hermitage , and therefore consider it wrong to avoid it . ' have you a sledge ? ...
that be a good thing , because I 've send my coachman home . '
the two friend be silent all the way .
Levin be consider what the change in Kitty 's face mean now ; persuade himself that there be hope , now in despair , see clearly that such hope be madness ; but yet feel an altogether different be from what he have be before her smile and the word ' Au revoir ! '
Oblonsky during the drive be compose the menu of their dinner .
' you like turbot , do not you ? ' he ask , as they drive up to the restaurant .
' what ? ' say Levin . ' Turbot ?
oh yes , I be awfully fond of turbot ! '
when they enter the restaurant Levin could not help notice something peculiar in his friend 's expression , a kind of suppress radiance in his face and whole figure .
Oblonsky take off his overcoat , and with his hat on one side walk into the dining - room , give his order to the Tartar waiter , in their swallow - tail coat , with napkin under their arm , who attach themselves to he .
bow right and leave to his acquaintance who , here as elsewhere , greet he joyfully , he pass on to the buffet , drink a glass of vodka and eat a bit of fish as hor - d'oeuvre , and say something to the paint Frenchwoman , bedeck with ribbon and lace , who sit at a little counter – something that make even this Frenchwoman burst into frank laughter .
Levin do not take any vodka , simply because that Frenchwoman – make up , as it seem to he , of false hair , powder , and toilet vinegar – be offensive to he . he move away from she as from some dirty place . his whole soul be fill with Kitty 's image , and his eye shine with a smile of triumph and happiness . ' this way , please your Excellency ! this way – no one will disturb your Excellency here , ' say a specially officious waiter , an old white - headed Tartar , so wide in the hip that the tail of his coat separate behind .
' if you please , your Excellency , ' he say , turn to Levin and as a mark of respect to Oblonsky pay attention to his guest . in a moment he have spread a fresh cloth on a round table already cover with a cloth beneath a bronze chandelier , move two velvet chair to the table , and stand with a napkin and menu await the order .
' if your Excellency would like a private room , one will be vacant in a few moment . Prince Golitzin be there with a lady .
we 've some fresh oyster in , sir . '
' ah – oyster ! '
Oblonsky pause and consider .
' shall we change our plan , Levin ? ' he say , with his finger on the bill of fare and his face express serious perplexity . ' but be the oyster really good ?
now be careful ... '
' real Flensburg , your Excellency ! we 've no Ostend one . '
' they may be Flensburg , but be they fresh ? '
' they only arrive yesterday . '
' well then , shall we begin with oyster and change the whole plan of our dinner , eh ? '
' I do not mind .
I like buckwheat porridge and cabbage soup good , but they do not have those thing here . '
' would you like Buckwheat à la Russe ? ' say the Tartar , stoop over Levin like a nurse over a child .
' no , – joke apart , whatever you choose will suit I .
I 've be skate and I be hungry !
do not think that I do not appreciate your choice , ' he add , notice a dissatisfied look on Oblonsky 's face .
' I shall be glad of a good dinner . '
' I should think so !
say what you like , it be one of the pleasure of life ! ' say Oblonsky . ' well then , my good fellow , bring we two – or that will be too little ... three dozen oyster , and vegetable soup ... '
' Printanier , ' chime in the waiter .
but Oblonsky evidently do not wish to give he the pleasure of call the dish by their french name .
' ... vegetable , you know .
then turbot with thick sauce ; then ... roast beef ( and mind it be good ! ) ; and then capon , shall we say ?
yes . and stew fruit . '
the waiter , remember Oblonsky 's way of call the item on the french menu by their russian name , do not repeat the word after he , but afterwards allow himself the pleasure of repeat the whole of the order accord to the menu : ' potage printanier , turbot , sauce Beaumarchais , boeuf , poularde à l'estragon , macédoine de fruit ... ' and immediately , as if move by spring , he put down the bill of fare in one cardboard cover , and seize another contain the wine - list hold it out to Oblonsky .
' what shall we have to drink ? '
' whatever you like , only not too much ... Champagne ! ' say Levin .
' what , to begin with ?
however , why not ?
you like the white seal ? '
' Cachet blanc , ' chime in the waiter .
' yes , bring we that with the oyster , and then we will see . '
' yes , sir , and what sort of table wine ? '
' Nuit ... no , let us have the classic Chablis . '
' yes , sir .
and your special cheese ? '
' well , yes – parmesan .
or do you prefer some other kind ? '
' no , I really do not care , ' say Levin , unable to restrain a smile .
the Tartar dart off , his coat - tail fly ; and five minute later rush in again , with a dish of open oyster in pearly shell and a bottle between his finger .
Oblonsky crumple his starched napkin and push a corner of it inside his waistcoat , then , with his arm comfortably on the table , attack the oyster .
' not bad , ' he say , pull the quiver oyster out of their pearly shell with a silver fork , and swallow one after another . ' not bad , ' he repeat , lift his moist and glittering eye now to Levin , now to the Tartar .
Levin could eat oyster , though he prefer bread and cheese .
but it give he more pleasure to watch Oblonsky .
even the Tartar , who having draw the cork and pour the sparkling wine into the thin wide glass be straighten his white tie , glance with a smile of evident pleasure at Oblonsky .
' you do not care much for oyster ? ' say Oblonsky , empty his champagne glass – ' or perhaps you be think of something else .
he want Levin to be in good spirit .
but Levin , if not exactly in bad spirit , feel constrained .
the feeling that fill his heart make he ill - at - ease and uncomfortable in this restaurant with its private room where man take woman to dine . everything seem offensive : these bronze , mirror , gaslight and Tartar waiter .
he be afraid of soil that which fill his soul .
yes , I be preoccupy – and besides , all this make I feel constrain , ' he say . ' you can not imagine how strange it all seem to I who live in the country , – like the nail of that gentleman I see at your place . '
' yes , I notice that poor Grinevich 's nail interest you greatly , ' say Oblonsky .
' I can not help it , ' reply Levin . ' put yourself in my place – look at it from a country fellow 's point of view !
we try to get our hand into a state convenient to work with , and for that purpose we cut our nail and sometimes roll up our sleeve .
but here people purposely let their nail grow until they begin to curl , and have little saucer for stud to make it quite impossible for they to use their hand ! '
Oblonsky smile merrily .
' yes , it be a sign that rough work be unnecessary to he .
he work with his mind ... '
' possibly ; but still it seem to I strange that while we country people try to get over our meal as quickly as we can , so as to be able to get on with our work , here you and I try to make our meal last as long as possible , and therefore eat oyster . '
' well , of course , ' say Oblonsky . ' the aim of civilization be to enable we to get enjoyment out of everything . '
' well , if that be its aim , I would rather be a savage . '
' you be a savage as it be .
all you Levins be savage . '
Levin sigh .
he remember his brother Nicholas and frown , feel ashamed and distressed ; but Oblonsky start a subject which at once distract his thought .
' well , be you go to see our people to - night ? the Shcherbatskys , I mean , ' he say , push away the rough and now empty oyster shell and draw the cheese toward he , while his eye glitter significantly .
' yes , certainly I shall go . though the Princess appear to ask I rather unwillingly . '
' not a bit of it !
what humbug !
it be just her manner ...
come , bring we the soup , my good fellow ! ...
it be her grande dame manner , ' say Oblonsky . ' I shall come too , but I must first go to a musical rehearsal at the Countess Bonin 's .
what a strange fellow you be , though !
how do you explain your sudden departure from Moscow ?
the Shcherbatskys ask I again and again , just as if I ought to know all about you .
yet all I know be that you never do thing as any one else do ! '
' yes , ' say Levin slowly and with agitation . ' you be right , I be a savage .
only my savagery lie not in having go away then , but rather in having come back now .
I have now come ... '
' oh , what a lucky fellow you be ! ' interrupt Oblonsky , look straight into his eye .
' why ? '
' -"fiery steed by " something " brand / I can always recognize / youth in love at once I know , / by the look that light their eye ! " - ' declaim Oblonsky . ' you have everything before you ! '
' and you – have you everything behind you ? '
' no , not behind I , but you have the future and I have the present ; and even that only half - and - half ! '
' why ?
' oh , thing be rather bad ...
however , I do not want to talk about myself , and besides it be impossible to explain everything , ' say Oblonsky . ' well , and why have you come to Moscow ? ...
here , take this away ! ' he shout to the Tartar .
' do not you guess ? ' answer Levin , the light shine deep in his eye as he gaze steadily at Oblonsky .
' I do , but I can not begin to speak about it , – by which you can judge whether my guess be right or wrong , ' say Oblonsky , look at he with a subtle smile .
' well , and what do you say to it ? ' ask Levin with a tremble voice , feel that all the muscle of his face be quiver . ' what do you think of it ? '
Oblonsky slowly drink his glass of Chablis , his eye fix on Levin .
' there be nothing I should like well , ' say he , ' nothing !
it be the good that could happen . '
' but be you not make a mistake ?
do you know what we be talk about ? ' say Levin , peer into his interlocutor 's face . ' you think it possible ? '
' I think so .
why should not it be ? '
' no , do you really think it be possible ?
no , you must tell I all you really think !
and suppose ... suppose a refusal be in store for I ? ...
I be even certain ... '
' why do you think so ? ' say Oblonsky , smile at Levin 's excitement .
' well , sometimes it seem so to I .
you know , that would be terrible both for she and for I . '
' oh no ! in any case there be nothing in it terrible for the girl .
every girl be proud of an offer . '
' yes , every girl , but not she . '
Oblonsky smile .
he understand that feeling of Levin 's so well , know that for Levin all the girl in the world be divide into two class : one class include all the girl in the world except she , and they have all the usual human failing and be very ordinary girl ; while the other class – herself alone – have no weakness and be superior to all humanity .
' wait a bit : you must take some sauce , ' say Oblonsky , stop Levin 's hand that be push away the sauce - boat .
Levin obediently help himself to sauce , but would not let Oblonsky eat .
' no , wait , wait ! ' he say . ' understand that for I it be a question of life and death .
I have never speak to any one about it , and can speak to no one else about it .
now you and I be quite different in everything – in taste and view and everything – but I know you like I and understand I , and so I be awfully fond of you . but for God 's sake be quite frank with I ! '
my wife be a most wonderful woman ... ' he sigh , remember his relation with his wife ; then after a minute 's pause he continue : ' she have the gift of clairvoyance .
she see people through and through ! but more than that , she know what be go to happen especially in regard to marriage .
for instance , she predict that the Shahovskaya girl would marry Brenteln .
no one would believe it , but as it turn out she be right .
and she be on your side . '
' how do you know ? '
' in this way – she not only like you , but say that Kitty be sure to be your wife . '
at these word a sudden smile brighten Levin 's face , the kind of smile that be not far from tear of tenderness .
' she say that ? ' he cry . ' I have always think she a jewel , your wife !
but enough – enough about it ! ' and he get up .
' all right , but sit down ! '
but Levin could not sit still .
he stride up and down the little cage of a room blink to force back his tear , and only when he have succeed do he sit down again .
' try and realize , ' he say , ' that this be not love . I have be in love but this be not the same thing .
it be not my feeling but some external power that have seize I .
I go away , you know , because I have come to the conclusion that it be impossible – you understand ?
because such happiness do not exist on earth . but I have struggle with myself , and find that without that there be no life for I .
and it must be decide ... '
' then why do you go away ? '
' wait a moment !
oh , what a crowd of idea !
how many thing I have to ask !
listen .
you can not imagine what you have do for I by say what you do !
I be so happy that I be act meanly . I 've forget everything .
I hear to - day about my brother Nicholas ... he be here , you know ... and I forget all about he .
it seem to I as if he too be happy .
it be like madness !
but there be one awful thing about it .
you , who be married , know the feeling ... it be awful that we – who be comparatively old and have past ... not of love but of sin ... suddenly we come into close intimacy with a pure innocent being ! that be disgusting , and therefore one can not help feel oneself unworthy . '
' well , there have not be many sin in your past ! '
' ah , but all the same , ' say Levin , ' look back at my life , I tremble and curse and bitterly regret ...
yes ! '
' what be to be do ? that be the way the world be make , ' say Oblonsky .
' my one consolation be that prayer that I like so much : " not accord to my desert but accord to Thy mercy ! "
and she too can only forgive I that way . '
LEVIN empty his GLASS and they be silent for a while .
' there be one thing more that I must tell you , ' begin Oblonsky . ' you know Vronsky ? '
' no , I do not .
why do you ask ? '
' another bottle ! ' say Oblonsky , turn to the Tartar , who be fill their glass and hover round they just when he be not want .
' why do I need to know Vronskij ? '
' the reason you ought to know Vronsky be this : he be one of your rival . '
' what be he ? ' ask Levin , the expression of childlike rapture which Oblonsky have be admire suddenly change into an angry and unpleasant one .
' Vronsky be one of Count Cyril Ivanovich Vronsky 's son , and a very fine sample of the gilded youth of Petersburg .
I meet he in Tver when I be in the Service there and he come on conscription duty .
awfully rich , handsome , with influential connection , an aide - de - camp to the Emperor , and at the same time very good - natured – a first - rate fellow .
and he be even more than a first - rate fellow .
as I have get to know he now , he turn out to be both educate and very clever – a man who will go far . '
Levin frown and be silent .
' well , so he come here soon after you leave , and as far as I can make out be head over ear in love with Kitty ; and you understand that her mother ... '
' pardon I , but I understand nothing , ' say Levin , dismally knit his brow .
and at once he think of his brother Nicholas and how mean he be to forget he .
' you just wait a bit , wait ! ' say Oblonsky , smile and touch Levin 's arm . ' I have tell you what I know , and I repeat that , as far as anyone can judge in so delicate and subtle a matter , I believe the chance be all on your side . '
Levin lean back in his chair . his face be pale .
' but I should advise you to settle the question as soon as possible , ' Oblonsky continue , fill Levin 's glass .
' no , thank ! I can not drink any more , ' say Levin push his glass aside , ' or I shall be tipsy ...
well , and how be you get on ? ' he continue , evidently wish to change the subject .
' one word more !
in any case , I advise you to decide the question quickly , but I should not speak to - day , ' say Oblonsky . ' go tomorrow morning and propose in the classic manner , and may heaven bless you ! '
' you have so often promise to come and shoot with I – why not come this spring ? ' say Levin .
he now repent with his whole heart of having begin this conversation with Oblonsky .
his personal feeling have be desecrate by the mention of some Petersburg officer as his rival , and by Oblonsky 's conjecture and advice .
he understand what be go on in Levin 's soul .
' I will come some day , ' he say . ' ah , old chap , woman be the pivot on which everything turn !
thing be in a bad way with I too , very bad , and all on account of woman .
tell I quite frankly ... '
he take out a cigar , and with one hand on his glass he continue : ' give I some advice . '
' why ? what be the matter ? '
' well , it be this .
suppose you be marry and love your wife , but have be fascinate by another woman ...
' excuse I , but really I ... it be quite incomprehensible to I . it be as if ... just as incomprehensible as if I , after eat my fill here , go into a baker 's shop and steal a roll . '
Oblonsky 's eye glitter more than usual . ' why not ? roll sometimes smell so that one can not resist they ! '
' Himmlisch ist 's , wenn ich bezwungen Meine irdische Begier ; Aber doch wenn 's nicht gelungen Hatt ' ich auch recht hübsch Plaisir ! '
[ ' it be heavenly when I have master my earthly desire ; but when I have not succeed , I have also have right good pleasure ! ' ]
Oblonsky repeat these line with a subtle smile and Levin himself could not help smile . ' no , but joke apart , ' continue Oblonsky , ' just consider .
a woman , a dear , gentle , affectionate creature , poor and lonely , sacrifice everything .
now when the thing be do ... just consider , should one forsake she ? grant that one ought to part with she so as not to destroy one 's family life , but ought not one to pity she and provide for she and make thing easy ? '
' as to that , you must pardon I .
you know that for I there be two kind of woman ... or rather , no ! there be woman , and there be ...
I have never see any charming fall creature , and never shall see any ; and people like that paint Frenchwoman with her curl out there by the counter , be an abomination to I , and all these fall one be like she . '
' and the one in the Gospels ? '
' oh , do not !
Christ would never have speak those word , have he know how they would be misuse !
they be the only word in the Gospels that seem to be remember .
however , I be not say what I think , but what I feel .
I have a horror of fall woman .
you be repel by spider and I by those creature .
probably you never study spider and know nothing of their moral ; and it be the same in my case ! '
' it be all very well for you to talk like that – it be like that gentleman in Dickens , who with his left hand throw all difficult question over his right shoulder .
but deny a fact be no answer .
what be I to do ? tell I , what be I to do ?
my wife be get old , and I be full of vitality .
a man hardly have time to turn round , before he feel that he can no long love his wife in that way , whatever his regard for she may be .
and then all of a sudden love cross your path , and you be lose , lose ! ' say Oblonsky with despair .
Levin smile .
' yes , I be lose , ' continue Oblonsky . ' but what be I to do ? '
' do not steal roll . '
Oblonsky burst out laugh .
' oh , you moralist !
but just consider , here be two woman : one insist only on her right , and her right be your love , which you can not give she ; and the other sacrifice herself and demand nothing .
what be you to do ?
how be you to act ?
it be a terrible tragedy . '
' if you want I to say what I think of it , I can only tell you that I do not believe in the tragedy .
and the reason be this : I think love , both kind of love , which you remember Plato define in his " symposium " – both kind of love serve as a touchstone for man .
some man understand only the one , some only the other .
those who understand only the non - platonic love need not speak of tragedy .
for such love there can be no tragedy .
" thank you kindly for the pleasure , good - bye , " and that be the whole tragedy .
and for the platonic love there can be no tragedy either , because there everything be clear and pure , because ... '
here Levin recollect his own sin and the inner struggle he have live through add unexpectedly ,
' however , maybe you be right .
it may very well be .
but I do not know , I really do not know . '
' well , you see you be very consistent , ' say Oblonsky .
' it be both a virtue and a fault in you .
you have a consistent character yourself and you wish all the fact of life to be consistent , but they never be .
for instance you despise public service because you want work always to correspond to its aim , and that never happen .
you also want the activity of each separate man to have an aim , and love and family life always to coincide – and that do not happen either .
all the variety , charm and beauty of life be make up of light and shade . '
Levin sigh and do not answer .
he be think of his own affair and not listen to Oblonsky .
and suddenly both feel that though they be friend , and have dine and drunk wine together which should have draw they yet close , yet each be think only of his own affair and be not concern with the other .
Oblonsky have more than once experience this kind of acute estrangement instead of union follow a dinner with a friend , and know what to do in such a case .
' the bill ! ' he shout and go out into the dining - hall , where he immediately see an aide - de - camp of his acquaintance , and enter into conversation with he about an actress and her protector .
and immediately in conversation with the aide - de - camp Oblonsky feel relief and rest after the talk with Levin , who always demand of he too great a mental and spiritual strain .
when the Tartar return with a bill for twenty - six rouble odd , Levin quite unconcernedly pay his share which with the tip come to fourteen rouble , a sum that usually would have horrify his rustic conscience , and go home to dress and go on to the Shcherbatskys ' where his fate be to be decide .
PRINCESS KITTY SHCHERBATSKAYA be eighteen , and this be her first season .
her success in Society be great than that of her two eld sister , and great even than her mother have expect .
not only be nearly all the youth that dance at the Moscow ball in love with Kitty , but two serious suitor present themselves for she that very first winter : Levin and , immediately after his departure , Count Vronsky .
Levin 's arrival at the beginning of the winter , his frequent visit and evident love for Kitty give rise to her parent ' first serious deliberation as to her future and to dispute between they .
the Prince take Levin 's part and say he desire nothing well for Kitty .
the Princess with a woman 's way of talk round the question say that Kitty be too young , that Levin have not show that his intention be serious , that Kitty be not in love with he , and so on ; but she do not say the most important thing , namely that she expect a well match for her daughter , that she do not like Levin and do not understand he .
when he suddenly leave , the Princess be pleased and triumphantly say to her husband , ' you see , I be right ! '
when Vronsky appear she be still more pleased and be strengthen in her opinion that Kitty ought to make not only a good but a brilliant match .
in the mother 's eye there be no comparison between Levin and Vronsky .
she do not like Levin 's strange and harsh criticism , his awkward manner in Society which she attribute to pride , and what she consider his strange way of life in the country ; occupy with cattle and peasant ; in particular she do not like the fact that when he be in love with her daughter he come to the house for six week as if wait and look out for something , afraid of do they too great an honour by make an offer of marriage , and that he do not understand that , if he visit at a house where there be a marriageable girl , he ought to declare his intention .
and then suddenly he leave without propose !
' it be a good thing he be so unattractive , and that Kitty have not fall in love with he , ' think her mother .
Vronsky satisfy all the mother 's desire : he be very rich , clever , distinguished , with a brilliant military career before he , a position at Court , and altogether be an enchanting man .
nothing well could be desire .
Vronsky be openly attentive to Kitty when they meet at ball , dance with she , and come to the house , so there could be no doubt as to the seriousness of his intention .
but in spite of this the mother be in a dreadful state of anxiety and agitation all that winter .
when the Princess herself have marry , more than thirty year before , the match have be arrange by an aunt .
her fiancé about whom everything be know beforehand come , see his intend bride , and be see by her people , then the matchmake aunt learn what be think on each side , and pass on the information . all be satisfactory .
afterwards at an appoint time and place the expect proposal be make to , and accept by , her parent .
everything be do very easily and simply .
at least so it seem to the Princess . but in her daughter ' case she experience how far from easy and simple the apparently easy business of marry off a daughter really be .
what anxiety she have to suffer , how many question to consider over and over again , how much money to spend , how many encounter with her husband to go through ; when her two eld daughter Darya and Nataly be marry !
now that her young daughter have come out she be live through the same fear and doubt , and have even bad dispute with her husband than on her eld daughter ' account .
like all father , the old Prince be extremely punctilious where his daughter ' purity and honour be concern ; he be unreasonably jealous especially about Kitty , his favourite , and at every step reproach the Princess with compromise her daughter .
the Princess have grow use to this in respect to her old daughter , but now she feel that her husband 's punctiliousness have more justification .
she could see that lately social custom have change very much and a mother 's duty have become still more difficult .
she know that girl of Kitty 's age form society of some sort , go to course of lecture , make friend freely with man , and drive alone through the street ; many no long curtsy , and above all every one of they be firmly convinced that the choice of a husband be her own and not her parent ' business .
' nowadays they do not give we away in marriage as they use to ! ' say these young girl , and even the old people say the same .
but how marriage be now arrange the Princess could not find out from anyone .
the french way , of parent decide a daughter 's fate , be not accept , and be even condemn .
the english way , of give a girl perfect freedom , be also reject , and would have be impossible in russian Society .
the russian way , of employ a professional match - maker , be consider monstrous , and be laugh at by everybody , include the Princess herself .
but how a girl be to get marry , or how a mother be to get a daughter give in marriage , no one know .
everyone with whom the Princess discuss the subject say the same thing : ' well , you know , in our day it be time to give up obsolete custom .
after all it be the young people who marry and not their parent , therefore they must be leave to arrange matter as they think well . '
it be all very well for people who have no daughter to talk like that , but the Princess know that intimacy might be follow by love and that her daughter might fall in love with some one who have no intention of marrying or be not fit to be her husband .
and whatever people might say about the time having come when young people must arrange their future for themselves , she could not believe it any more than she could believe that load pistol could ever be the good toy for five - year - old child .
that be why the Princess be more anxious about Kitty than she have be about her eld daughter .
and now she be afraid that Vronsky might content himself with merely flirt with her daughter .
she see that Kitty be in love with he , but console herself with the thought that Vronsky be an honest man and therefore would not act in such a way .
at the same time she know that the freedom now permit make it easy for a man to turn a girl 's head , and know how lightly man regard an offence of that kind .
the week before , Kitty have repeat to her mother a conversation she have have with Vronsky while dance the mazurka with he .
this conversation have partly reassure the Princess ; but she could not feel quite at ease .
Vronsky have tell Kitty that he and his brother be so used to comply with their mother 's wish that they never make up their mind to take an important step without consult she .
' and I be now especially happy look forward to my mother 's arrival from Petersburg , ' he have say .
Kitty have narrate this without attach any special meaning to the word .
but to her mother they appear in a different light .
she know that the old lady be expect any day , and would approve of her son 's choice ; and though she think it strange that he should delay propose for fear of hurt his mother , she so desire the marriage , and especially relief from her own anxiety , that she believe it .
hard as it be to see the misfortune of Dolly , her eld daughter ( who think of leave her husband ) , the Princess 's anxiety as to her young daughter 's fate , now about to be decide , entirely absorb she .
Levin 's arrival that day give her further cause for anxiety .
she be afraid that her daughter who have once seem to have a certain affection for Levin might be lead by an exaggerated feeling of loyalty to reject Vronsky , and she fear that in general Levin 's arrival might cause complication and delay in matter now so near conclusion .
' have he be back long ? ' ask the Princess when they get home , refer to Levin .
' he arrive to - day , Maman . '
' there be one thing I want to say ... ' the Princess begin , and from her serious look Kitty guess what be come .
' mama , ' she say flush and turn quickly toward her mother , ' please , please , say nothing about it !
I know , I know quite well . '
her wish be the same as her mother 's , but the motive underlie her mother 's wish offend she .
' I wish to say that having give hope to one ... '
' Mama , dearest , for Heaven 's sake do not speak .
it be so dreadful to speak about it ! '
' I will not , – only this , my darling , ' say the mother , see tear in her daughter 's eye , ' ... you promise not to have any secret from I and you will not , will you ? '
' never , Mama , never at all , ' answer Kitty blushing as she look her mother straight in the face . ' but I have nothing to say at present ... I ... I ... if I wish to , I should not know what to say or how ... I do not know ... '
' no , she could not possibly tell an untruth with such eye , ' think the mother smile at her agitation and joy .
the Princess smile to think how immense and important what be go on in her own soul must appear to the poor girl .
during the INTERVAL between dinner and the beginning of the evening party , Kitty experience something resemble a young man 's feeling before a battle .
her heart be beat violently and she could not fix her thought on anything .
she feel that this evening , when those two man be to meet for the first time , would decide her fate ; and she keep picture they to herself , now individually and now together .
when she think of the past , she dwelt with pleasure and tenderness on her former relation with Levin .
memory of childhood and of Levin 's friendship with her dead brother lend a peculiar poetic charm to her relation with he .
his love for she , of which she feel sure , flattered and rejoice she , and she could think of he with a light heart .
with her thought of Vronsky be mingle some uneasiness , though he be an extremely well - breed and quiet - mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in he , for he be very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she feel herself quite simple and clear .
on the other hand when she picture to herself a future with Vronsky a brilliant vision of happiness rise up before she , while a future with Levin appeared wrap in mist .
on go upstairs to dress for the evening and look in the glass , she notice with pleasure that this be one of her good day , and that she be in full possession of all her force , which would be so much want for what lay before she . she be conscious of external calmness and of freedom and grace in her movement .
at half - past seven , as soon as she have come down into the drawing - room , the footman announce ' Constantine Dmitrich Levin ! '
the Princess be still in her bedroom , nor have the Prince yet come down .
' so it be to be ! ' think Kitty and the blood rush to her heart .
glance at the mirror she be horrified at her pallor .
she feel sure that he have come so early on purpose to see she alone and to propose to she .
and now for the first time the matter present itself to she in a different and entirely new light .
only now do she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who be the man she love ) do not concern herself alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she care for , and to wound he cruelly ...
why ?
because the dear fellow be in love with she .
but it could not be help , it be necessary and have to be do .
' oh God , must I tell he so myself ? ' she think . ' must I really tell he that I do not care for he ?
that would not be true .
what then shall I say ?
shall I say that I love another ?
no , that be impossible !
I will go away .
yes , I will . '
she be already approach the door when she hear his step .
' no , it would be dishonest !
what have I to fear ?
I have do nothing wrong .
I will tell the truth , come what may !
besides , it be impossible to feel awkward with he .
here he be ! ' she think , as she see his powerful diffident figure before she and his shine eye gaze at she .
she look straight into his face as if entreat he to spare she , and give he her hand .
' I do not think I 've come at the right time , I be too early , ' he say , gaze round the empty drawing - room .
when he see that his expectation be fulfil and that nothing prevent his speaking to she , his face cloud over .
' not at all , ' say Kitty and sit down at the table .
' but all I want be to find you alone , ' he began , still stand and avoid her face so as not to lose courage .
' Mama will be down in a minute .
she be so tired yesterday ... '
she speak without know what she be say , her eye fix on he with a caressing look full of entreaty .
he glance at she ; she blush and be silent .
' I tell you that I do not know how long I should stay ... that it depend on you . '
her head drop lower and low , know the answer she would give to what be come .
' that it would depend on you , ' he repeat . ' I want to say ...
I want to say ... I come on purpose ... that ... to be my wife ! ' he utter hardly know what he say ; but feel that the bad be out he stop and look at she .
she be breathe heavily and not look at he .
she be fill with rapture .
her soul be overflow with happiness .
she have not at all expect that his declaration of love would make so strong an impression on she .
but that last only for an instant .
she remember Vronsky , lift her clear , truthful eye to Levin 's face , and notice his despair she reply quickly :
' it can not be ... forgive I . '
how near to he she have be a minute ago , how important in his life !
and how estranged and distant she seem now !
' nothing else be possible , ' he say , without look at she , and bow he turn to go ...
but just at that moment the Princess come in .
an expression of terror appear in her face on see they alone together and notice their troubled look .
Levin bow to she and say nothing .
Kitty sit with downcast eye .
' thank Heaven she have refuse he , ' think the mother , and her face brighten into the usual smile with which she greet her visitor on Thursday evening .
she sit down and begin question Levin about his life in the country .
he too sit down until the arrival of other guest should enable he to get away unnoticed .
five minute later Kitty 's friend the Countess Nordston , who have marry the year before , come in .
she be a thin , sallow , nervous , ail woman with shine black eye .
she be fond of Kitty , and her affection show itself as the affection of a married woman for an unmarried one generally do , in a desire to get Kitty married accord to she – the Countess 's – own ideal of conjugal bliss ; and she wish to see she marry to Vronsky .
she always dislike Levin , whom at the beginning of the winter she have often meet at the Shcherbatskys .
her constant and favourite amusement be to make fun of he .
' I love it when he look down at I from the height of his dignity , or break off his clever conversation because I be too stupid , or when he show his condescension toward I .
I do love it . his condescension !
I be very glad he hate I , ' she use to say with reference to he .
she be right , because Levin really could not bear she and despise she for the very thing she be proud of and regard as a merit , that is , her nervousness and refined contempt and disregard for all the rough and common thing of life .
between the Countess Nordston and Levin relation have grow up such as be not infrequently meet with in Society , when two people outwardly remain in friendly relation despise each other to such an extent that they can not treat each other seriously , or even be offend with one another .
the Countess at once attack Levin .
' ah , Mr. Levin !
so you have return to our depraved Babylon ! ' she say , hold out her tiny yellow hand and repeat the word he have use early in the winter when he have call Moscow ' Babylon , ' – ' have Babylon improve or have you deteriorate ? ' she add , and turn toward Kitty with a sarcastic smile .
' I be much flattered that you remember my word so well , Countess , ' reply Levin who have have time to recover his self - possession , resume immediately and by force of habit his banteringly hostile relation with she . ' they evidently produce a strong impression on you . '
' why , of course , I always write they down .
well , Kitty , have you be skate again ? '
she begin to talk with Kitty .
awkward as it would have be for Levin to leave just then , he would have prefer do so to remain in the house for the rest of the evening in sight of Kitty , who now and then glance at he but avoid catch his eye .
he be about to rise , when the Princess notice his silence turn toward he and say :
' have you come to Moscow for long ?
but I believe you be on the Zemstvo and can not stay away long ? '
' no , Princess , I be no long on the Zemstvo , ' he answer , ' I have come to Moscow for a few day . '
' something out of the common have happen to he , ' think the Countess Nordston , scrutinize his stern and serious face ; ' why do he not start on one of his discourse ?
but I will draw he out , I do love to make a fool of he when Kitty 's about , and I will . '
' Mr. Levin , ' she begin , ' explain to I , please , you who know everything , how it be that at our Kaluga estate the peasant man and woman have drink everything they have , and never pay anything they owe we .
what be the explanation ?
you always praise the peasant so much . '
at that moment another lady enter the room and Levin rise .
' excuse I , Countess , but really I know nothing about it , and can not tell you anything , ' he say , and as he turn he see an officer who have come into the room behind the lady .
' that must be Vronsky , ' he think , and look at Kitty to make sure .
she have already glance at Vronsky and then turn toward Levin .
and by the look of her eye which have involuntarily brighten Levin realize that she love this man , realize it as surely as if she have tell it he in so many word .
but what kind of man be he ?
now , rightly or wrongly , Levin could not but remain . he have to find out what sort of a man it be that she love .
there be people who when they meet a rival , no matter in what , at once shut their eye to everything good in he and see only the bad . there be other who on the contrary try to discern in a lucky rival the quality which have enable he to succeed , and with ache heart seek only the good in he .
Levin belong to the latter sort .
but it be not difficult for he to see what be good and attractive in Vronsky .
it strike he immediately .
Vronsky be a dark sturdily - build man of medium height , with a good - natured , handsome , exceedingly quiet and firm face .
everything about his face and figure – from his black closely - crop hair and freshly - shaven chin to his wide , brand - new uniform – be simple and at the same time elegant .
having step aside to let a lady pass , Vronsky approach first the Princess and then Kitty .
when he move toward she his fine eye brighten with a special tenderness , and carefully and respectfully bend over she with a scarcely perceptible , happy , and ( as it seem to Levin ) modestly - triumphant smile , he hold out to she his small broad hand .
having greet and speak a few word to every one else , he sit down without having once look at Levin , who have not take his eye off he .
' let I introduce you , ' say the Princess indicate Levin . ' Constantine Dmitrich Levin , Count Alexis Kirilovich Vronsky . '
Vronsky rise and look cordially into Levin 's eye press his hand .
' I be to have dine with you early this winter , ' he say with his simple frank smile , ' but you unexpectedly go away to the country . '
' Mr. Levin despise and hate the town and us townspeople , ' say Countess Nordston .
' my word , must make a deep impression on you for you to remember they so long , ' say Levin ; then recollect that he have say this before he blush .
Vronsky glance at he and at the Countess , and smile .
' and do you always live in the country ? ' he ask . ' be not it dull in the winter ? '
' no , not when one be busy : nor need one be dull in one 's own company , ' reply Levin abruptly .
' I be fond of the country , ' say Vronsky , notice , but pretend not to notice , Levin 's tone .
' but I hope , Count , you would not consent always to live in the country , ' say the Countess Nordston .
' I do not know , I never try it for long .
I have experience a curious feeling , ' he go on . ' nowhere have I feel so homesick for the country , our russian country , with its peasant in bark - shoe , as when I spend a winter with my mother in Nice .
nice in itself be dull , you know .
and Naples and Sorrento be pleasant only for a short stay , and it be there that one think of Russia , and long especially for the russian countryside .
they seem to ... '
he be address both Kitty and Levin , his quiet and friendly glance pass from the one to the other . he be evidently speak quite sincerely and frankly .
notice that the Countess Nordston wish to say something , he stop without finish what he be say , and listen attentively to she .
the conversation do not flag for a moment , so that the old Princess who always have in reserve , in case of need , two heavy gun ( classical versus modern education , and general conscription ) , have no need to bring they forward , and the Countess Nordston have no opportunity to tease Levin .
Levin wish to join in the general conversation , but find it impossible , and keep say to himself , ' now I will go , ' yet he do not go , but wait for something indefinite .
the conversation touch on table - turning and spiritualism , and the Countess Nordston , who believe in spiritualism , begin relate miracle she have witness .
' ah , Countess , you must really take I there . for goodness ' sake take I to they !
I have never see anything supernatural though I always look out for it , ' say Vronsky smile .
' very well , next Saturday , ' reply the Countess Nordston . ' and you ; Mr. Levin , do you believe in it ? ' she ask , turn to he .
' why do you ask I ?
you know very well what I shall say . '
' but I want to hear your opinion . '
' my opinion be that this table - turning prove that our so - call educate class be on the same level as the peasant .
they believe in the evil eye and spell and witchcraft , while we ... '
' well then , you do not believe ? '
' I can not believe , Countess ! '
' but if I have see it myself ? '
' the peasant woman tell how they have see the goblin with their own eye . '
' then you think I be not tell the truth ? ' and she laugh mirthlessly .
' oh no , Masha , Mr. Levin only say he can not believe ... ' say Kitty , blush for Levin , and Levin understand this become still more irritated and wish to answer , but Vronsky , with his bright and frank smile , come at once to the rescue of the conversation , which be threaten to become unpleasant .
' you do not admit that it be even possible ? ' he ask . ' but why not ?
we admit the existence of electricity , which we do not understand , why can not there be other force which we do not yet know , but which ... '
' when electricity be first discover , ' Levin hurriedly interrupt , ' only the phenomenon be observe , their cause and its effect be unknown . century pass before any one thought of apply it .
but the Spiritualists on the contrary begin by the table write for they and the spirit come to they , and they only afterwards begin to say that it be an unknown force . '
Vronsky listen attentively to Levin as he always listen , evidently interested in what he be say .
' yes , but the spiritualist say , " we do not yet know what force it be , but it exist and these be the condition under which it act .
let the scientist discover what the force be . "
no , I do not see why it should not be a new force , if it ... '
' for this reason , ' Levin again interrupt he , ' that with electricity , you need only rub a piece of resin against wool , and you will always produce a certain phenomenon , but this other do not always act , so it be not a natural force . '
probably feel that the conversation be become too serious for a drawing - room , Vronsky do not reply , but in order to change the subject he smile gaily and turn toward the lady .
' let we try now , Countess , ' he begin , but Levin want to finish say what he think .
' I think , ' he continue , ' that this attempt of the Spiritualists to explain their wonder by some kind of new force be most unsuccessful .
they speak definitely of a spiritual force , and yet want to subject it to a material test . '
everybody wait for he to finish and he be conscious of it .
' I think you would make a splendid medium , ' say the Countess Nordston ; ' there be something ecstatic about you . '
Levin open his mouth to reply , but blush and say nothing .
' let we try table - turning now , Princess Kitty , please do , ' say Vronsky . ' may we , Princess ? ' he say to her mother and he rise and look round for a suitable table .
Kitty rise to fetch a table , and as she pass Levin their eye meet .
she pity he with her whole soul , especially because she herself have cause he to suffer .
' if you can forgive I , please do , ' plead her look . ' I be so happy . '
' I hate everybody , include you and myself , ' answer his eye ; and he take up his hat .
but he be not fate to go yet .
just as the other begin settle round the table and Levin be about to go , the old Prince come in , and having greet the lady he turn to Levin .
' ah ! ' say he heartily .
' be here long ?
I do not even know that you have arrive ; very glad to see you . '
he embrace Levin , and speak to he do not catch sight of Vronsky who rise and stand quietly wait until the Prince should notice he .
Kitty be conscious that , after what have take place , her father 's cordiality oppress Levin .
she also notice how coldly her father at last respond to Vronsky 's bow , and with what good - natured perplexity Vronsky look at he , try , but fail , to understand how it be possible not to be friendly disposed toward he , and she blush .
' prince , release Mr. Levin for we as we want to try an experiment , ' say the Countess Nordston .
' what experiment ? table - turning ?
excuse I , lady and gentleman , but in my opinion playing at hunt the ring be more amusing , ' say the old Prince , look at Vronsky and guess that he have start the thing . ' after all there be some sense in " hunt the ring . "- '
Vronsky 's unflinche eye glance in astonishment at the old Prince , and slightly smile he at once begin talk to the Countess Nordston about the ball that be to take place the next week .
' I hope you will be there , ' he say to Kitty .
as soon as the old Prince have turn away from he Levin go out unobserved , and his last impression be Kitty 's happy smile face as she answer Vronsky 's question about the ball .
after the GUESTS have gone Kitty tell her mother of her conversation with Levin , and in spite of all her pity for he she be pleased by the thought that she have have a proposal .
she do not doubt that she have act rightly , yet for a long time she lie in bed unable to sleep .
one image pursue she relentlessly .
it be Levin 's face with his kind eye look mournfully from under his knit brow as he stood listen to her father and glance at she and at Vronsky , and she feel so sorry for he that tear rise to her eye .
but she immediately remember for whom she have exchange he .
she vividly picture to herself that strong manly face , that well - breed calm and the kindness toward everybody he always show : she remember the love the man she love bear she , and again become joyful and with a happy smile put her head on her pillow .
' it be a pity , a pity , but I be not to blame , ' she say to herself , but an inner voice say something different .
whether she repent of having draw Levin on or of having reject he she do not know , but her happiness be trouble by doubt .
' Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy , ' she repeat to herself till she fall asleep . meanwhile below in the Prince 's little study her parent be have one of their frequent scene about their favourite daughter .
' what ?
I will tell you what ! ' shout the Prince flourish his arm and immediately again wrap his squirrel - line dressing - gown around he . ' you have no pride , no dignity , you disgrace and ruin your daughter by this vile idiotic match - making . '
' for goodness ' sake , Prince , what in heaven 's own name have I do ? ' say the Princess almost in tear .
after her talk with her daughter she have come in , happy and content , to say good - night to the Prince as usual , and though she do not intend to speak to he about Levin 's proposal and Kitty 's refusal she hint to he that she think the matter with Vronsky be quite settle and would probably be definitely decide as soon as his mother arrive .
and when she say that , the Prince suddenly flare up and begin to shout rudely :
' what have you do ?
why this : first of all you entice a suitor . all Moscow will talk about it and with reason .
if you give a party invite everybody and not only select suitor .
invite all the young puppy , ' so the Prince call the Moscow young man , ' have a pianist and let they dance ; but do not have the sort of thing we have to - night – these suitor and this pair off .
it make I sick to see it , simply sick , and you have have your way and have turn the child 's head .
Levin be a thousand time the well man .
this one be a little Petersburg fop . they be machine - make by the dozen , all to one pattern , and all mere rubbish .
but even if he be a Prince of the blood my daughter do not need he . '
' but what have I do ? '
' just this ... ' exclaim the Prince angrily .
' I know this much , ' the Princess interrupt he , ' that if I be to listen to what you say we should never see our daughter marry , and we have well go and live in the country . '
' so we have ! '
' wait a bit !
do I draw they on ?
no , certainly not , but a young man and an excellent young man fall in love with Kitty , and she too seem ... '
' seem indeed !
and suppose she really fall in love with he while he intend to marry about as much as I do ... oh , I wish my eye have never see it ...
" ah spiritualism ! ah how nice !
ah the ball!"- ' and the Prince imagine himself to be impersonate his wife curtsy at each word . ' and then if we really ruin Kitty 's happiness , if she really get it into her head ... '
' but why do you suppose such a thing ? '
' I do not suppose , I know ! we have eye for those thing , and woman have not .
I can recognize a man who have serious intention – such as Levin – and I can see through a weathercock like that popinjay who only wish to amuse himself . '
' oh well , when you once get a thing into your head ... '
' and you will find it out , but too late , just as with poor Dolly . '
' all right . all right , do not let us talk , ' say the Princess , interrupt he and remember the unfortunate Dolly .
' very well then , good - night . '
and having make the sign of the cross over one another and kiss , feel that each of they retain their individual opinion , the couple separate for the night .
the Princess have be at first firmly convinced that this evening have decide Kitty 's fate and that there could be no doubt as to Vronsky 's intention ; but her husband 's word disturb she , and when she reach her room , in terror of the uncertainty of the future , she mentally repeat , just as Kitty have do : ' Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy ! '
VRONSKY have never KNOWN FAMILY LIFE .
his mother in her youth have be a brilliant Society woman , and during her married life and especially in her widowhood have have many love affair , know to everybody .
he hardly remember his father , and have be educate in the Cadet Corps .
on leave that Corps as a very young and brilliant officer he at once join the swim of the wealthy military Petersburg set .
though he occasionally go into the high Petersburg Society , all his love interest lie outside it .
in Moscow , after this luxurious course of Petersburg life , he experience for the first time the delight of intimacy with a sweet , innocent Society girl who fall in love with he .
it never enter his head that there could be any wrong in his relation with Kitty .
at ball he dance chiefly with she and he visit she at her home .
he talk with she the usual Society talk : all sort of rubbish , but rubbish into which involuntarily he put a special meaning for she .
though he never say anything to she which could not have be say before everybody he be conscious that she be become more and more dependent upon he , and the more he feel this the pleasanter it be , and the more tender become his feeling toward she .
he do not know that his behaviour toward Kitty have a name of its own , that it be decoy a girl with no intention of marry she , and be one of the evil action common among brilliant young man like himself .
he think he be the first to discover this pleasure and he enjoy his discovery .
if he could have hear what her parent say that night , if he could have know her family 's point of view and learn that Kitty would be unhappy if he do not marry she , he would have be much surprised and would not have believe it .
he would not have believe that what give so much and such excellent pleasure to he , and – what be more – to she , could be wrong .
every less could he have believe that he ought to marry .
marriage have never present itself to he as a possibility .
not only do he dislike family life , but in accordance with the view generally hold in the bachelor world in which he live he regard the family , and especially a husband , as something alien , hostile , and above all ridiculous .
but although Vronsky have no suspicion of what Kitty 's parent be say , he feel , as he leave the Shcherbatskys ' house that night , that the secret spiritual bond which exist between he and Kitty have so strengthen during the evening that some action ought to be take . but what this should or could be he could not imagine .
' that be what be so delightful , ' he think as he leave the Shcherbatskys ' house , carry away from there , we usual , a pleasant feeling of purity and freshness ( partly due to the fact that he have not smoke at all that evening ) and deeply touch by a new sense of tender joy in the consciousness of her love for he . ' that be what be so delightful , that nothing be say either by I or by she , yet we so well understand one another in that subtle language of look and tone that to - day more plainly than ever she have tell I that she love I .
and how sweetly , simply , and above all trustfully !
I feel myself well and purer , I feel I have a heart and that there be much that be good in I .
those dear love eye ! when she say , " and very much . "
' well , and what of it ?
nothing , of course .
it be pleasant for I and for she , ' and he consider where he should finish his evening .
he pass in review the place he might go to .
' the Club : a game of bezique , a bottle of champagne with Ignatev ?
no , I will not go there .
Chateau des Fleurs ? there I should find Oblonsky , french couplet , the cancan .
no , I be sick of it .
that be just what I like about the Shcherbatskys ' , that I myself become well there .
I will go home . '
he go straight to his room at the Hotel Dusseau , have supper , and after undress have hardly lay his head on his pillow before he be fast asleep .
at ELEVEN o'clock NEXT MORNING Vronsky drive to the Petersburg railway station in Moscow to meet his mother , and the first person he see on the step of the large portico be Oblonsky , who be expect his sister by the same train .
' Hallo , your Excellency ! ' exclaim Oblonsky . ' whom be you after ? '
' my mother , ' reply Vronsky , shake hand and smile ( as everybody do when meet Oblonsky ) as they go up the step together . ' she be come from Petersburg to - day . '
' I wait for you till two last night ; where do you go from the Shcherbatskys ' ? '
' home , ' reply Vronsky . ' to tell you the truth I feel in such a pleasant mood when I leave the Shcherbatskys ' that I do not care to go anywhere else . '
' -"fiery steed by " something " brand / I can always recognize ; / youth in love ... "- ' declaim Oblonsky , just as he have do to Levin .
Vronsky smile with a look that seem not to deny the implication but he immediately change the subject .
' and whom have you come to meet ? ' he ask . ' I ? a lovely woman , ' answer Oblonsky .
' dear I ! '
' Honi soit qui mal y pense !
my sister Anna ! '
' oh ! Mrs. Karenina ! ' say Vronsky .
' I expect you know she ? '
' I think I do .
but perhaps not ...
I really can not remember , ' answer Vronsky absent - mindedly , the name Karenina suggest to he some one stiff and dull .
' but you be sure to know Alexis Alexandrovich Karenin , my famous brother - in - law .
all the world know he . '
' yes , I know he by repute and by sight .
I know he be clever , learn , and by way of be religious , but you know it be not my ... not in my line , ' he add in English .
' oh yes , he be a very remarkable man , a bit conservative , but a splendid fellow , ' say Oblonsky , ' a splendid fellow . '
' well , so much the well for he , ' and Vronsky smile . ' ah , you be here ! ' he go on , turn toward his mother 's old footman who be stand by the door . ' come in here . '
besides like Oblonsky , as everybody do , Vronsky latterly have feel still more draw to he because he be connect in his mind with Kitty .
' well , be we to give a supper to the diva next Sunday ? ' he ask smilingly , take Oblonsky 's arm .
' certainly , I will collect subscription .
I say , do you make the acquaintance of my friend Levin last night ? ' ask Oblonsky .
' of course .
only he leave very early . '
' he be a splendid fellow , ' continue Oblonsky . ' do not you think so ? '
' I do not know how it be that all Muscovites , present company of course except , ' Vronsky put in jokingly , ' be so abrupt .
they be always stand on their hind leg get angry , and seem to want to act on your feeling ... '
' yes , there be some truth in that , ' say Oblonsky , laugh merrily .
' shall we have to wait much long ? ' ask Vronsky , turn to a porter .
' the train be signal , ' say the porter .
the approach of the train be make more and more evident by the increase bustle and preparation on the platform and the arrival of people who have come to meet the train .
through the frosty mist one could see workman in sheepskin coat and feel boot cross the curved railway line , and hear the whistle of a locomotive and the noisy movement of a heavy mass .
' no , ' say Oblonsky who be anxious to tell Vronsky about Levin 's intention concern Kitty , ' no , you have not judge my Levin rightly .
he be a very nervous man , and do make himself unpleasant sometimes , that be true enough ; but on the other hand he be sometimes very charming .
his be such an honest , straightforward nature , and he have a heart of gold .
but yesterday there be special reason , ' continue Oblonsky with a significant smile , quite forget the sincere sympathy he have feel for his friend the day before , and now only feel the same sympathy for Vronsky . ' yes , there be a reason why he have to be either specially happy or specially unhappy . '
Vronsky stop and ask he straight out :
' what do you mean ?
do he propose to your belle soeur last night '
' perhaps , ' say Oblonsky . ' I seem to notice something of the kind yesterday .
oh yes , if he leave early and be in a bad temper it must be that ...
he have be in love with she so long , and I be very sorry for he . '
' dear I ! ...
but I should think she may make a well match , ' say Vronsky , and expand his chest he again move forward . ' however , I do not know he , ' he add .
' yes , it be a painful position ! that be why so many prefer woman of the demi - monde .
if you do not succeed in that case it only show that you have not enough money , but in this case one 's pride be in the balance .
but here be the train . '
in fact the engine be already whistle in the distance , and a few moment later the platform shake as the train puff in , the steam spread low in the frozen air , the connect rod slowly and rhythmically push and pull , the bent figure of the engine - driver , warmly wrap up , be see cover with hoar - frost . the engine with the tender behind it move slowly into the station , gradually slow down and make the platform tremble still more .
the sprightly guard blow his whistle and jump off while the train be still move , and impatient passenger begin to descend one after another : an officer of the guard , erect and look sternly round , a fidgety little tradesman with a bag , a peasant with a sack over his shoulder .
Vronsky , as he stand by Oblonsky and watch these passenger come out of the carriage , quite forgot about his mother .
what he have just hear about Kitty excited and delight he .
his chest involuntarily expand and his eye shine , he feel himself to be a conqueror .
' the Countess Vronskaya be in that compartment , ' say the sprightly guard , address Vronsky .
his word rouse Vronsky from his reverie and remind he of his mother and of the come meeting .
in the depth of his heart he do not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledge to himself ) do not love she , but in accordance with the view of the set he live in , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treat she in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he be externally , the less he honour and love she in his heart .
VRONSKY follow the guard to the carriage arid have to stop at the entrance of the compartment to let a lady pass out .
the train insight of a Society man enable Vronsky with a single glance to decide that she belong to the good Society .
he apologize for be in her way and be about to enter the carriage , but felt compel to have another look at she , not because she be very beautiful nor because of the elegance and modest grace of her whole figure , but because he see in her sweet face as she pass he something specially tender and kind .
when he look round she too turn her head .
her bright grey eye which seem dark because of their black lash rest for a moment on his face as if recognize he , and then turn to the pass crowd evidently in search of some one .
in that short look Vronsky have time to notice the subdued animation that enliven her face and seem to flutter between her bright eye and a scarcely perceptible smile which curve her rosy lip .
it be as if an excess of vitality so fill her whole be that it betray itself against her will , now in her smile , now in the light of her eye .
she deliberately try to extinguish that light in her eye , but it shine despite of she in her faint smile .
Vronsky enter the carriage .
his mother , a thin old woman with black eye and curl hair , screw up her eye as she recognize her son and her thin lip smile slightly .
she rise from the seat , and give her hand - bag to her maid hold out her small dry hand to her son , then lift his head which have be bent to kiss her hand kiss he on his face .
' you have my telegram ?
you be well ?
that be a good thing . '
' have you have a good journey ? ' ask her son , sit down on the seat beside she and involuntarily listen to a woman 's voice outside the door .
he know it be the voice of the lady he have meet as he enter the carriage .
' all the same I do not agree with you , ' the lady be say .
' your be Petersburg view , madam . '
' not at all , simply a woman 's view . '
' well , allow I to kiss your hand . '
' Au revoir , Ivan Petrovich , and please if you see my brother send he to I , ' say the lady , close the door and again enter the compartment .
' well , have you find your brother ? ' ask Vronsky 's mother , address the lady .
Vronsky understand now that this be Mrs. Karenina .
' your brother be here , ' he say rise . ' excuse my not recognize you before . our acquaintance be so slight , ' he say with a bow , ' that I be sure you do not remember I . '
' oh yes , I should have recognize you , especially as I believe your mother and I have talk of nothing but you all the way , ' say she , at last allow the animation she have be try to suppress to reveal itself in a smile . ' but my brother be not here yet . '
' go and call he , Alexis , ' say the old Countess .
Vronsky go out on to the platform and shout , ' Oblonsky !
here ! '
Mrs. Karenina do not wait for her brother to come in , but , on see he , descend from the carriage with a firm light step .
as soon as her brother come up to she she throw she left arm round his neck with a movement that strike Vronsky by its firmness and grace , and draw he to herself give he a vigorous kiss .
Vronsky do not take his eye off she , and keep smile , he know not why .
but remember that his mother be wait for he he go back into the carriage .
' she be very charming , be not she ? ' say the Countess , refer to Mrs. Karenina . ' her husband put she into the compartment with I and I be very pleased .
we talk all the way .
and you I hear ... vous filez le parfait amour .
Tant mieux , mon cher , tant mieux . '
' I do not know what you mean , maman , ' the son reply coldly . ' well , shall we go ? '
Mrs. Karenina again enter the carriage to take leave of the Countess .
' there , Countess , you have meet your son and I my brother , ' she say , ' and I have exhaust my stock of story and should have have nothing more to tell you . '
' no , no , ' say the Countess hold her hand , ' I could travel round the world with you and not be dull .
you be one of those charming woman with whom it be nice to talk , and nice to be silent . but please do not fret about your son , you can not expect never to be part . '
Mrs. Karenina stand very erect and her eye be smile .
' Anna Arkadyevna Karenina have a son who , I think , be eight year old , ' explain the Countess , ' and she have never before be separate from he and so she be worried at having leave he . '
' yes , the Countess and I have talk all the time – I about my son and she about hers , ' say Mrs. Karenina , and a smile brighten her face , a kind smile on his account .
' I expect you get very weary of it , ' he say , quickly seize in its flight the ball of coquetry she have throw at he .
but she evidently do not wish to continue the conversation in that tone , and turn to the old Countess .
' thank you very much .
I hardly notice how the time pass .
Au revoir , Countess . '
' good - bye , dear ! ' answer the Countess .
' let I kiss your pretty face .
I be an old woman and say what I mean , and tell you frankly that I 've lose my heart to you . '
conventional as the phrase be , Mrs. Karenina evidently believe it and be pleased .
she blush , stoop a little , and hold out her face for the Countess to kiss , then she stand up again , and with the same smile hover between her lip and eye hold out her hand to Vronsky .
he press the little hand , and the firm grip with which she shake his give he unusual pleasure .
she go out with that brisk tread which carry she rather full figure with such wonderful ease .
' very charming , ' say the old lady .
her son think so too .
he follow she with his eye as long as he could see her graceful form , and his face retain its smile .
through the carriage window he see she approach her brother and speak to he with animation about something that evidently have no connection with he , Vronsky , and that seem to he provoking .
' well , maman , be you quite well ? ' he say , turn toward his mother .
' quite , everything be all right .
Alexander be very nice , and Varya look very handsome .
she be most interesting . '
and she begin to tell about what interested her most , her grandson 's christening , for which she have go to Petersburg , and the special favour the Emperor have show to her eld son .
' here be Lavrenty at last , ' say Vronsky look out of the window . ' we can go now if you like . '
the old major - domo , who have accompany the Countess on her journey , come in and announce that everything be ready , and the Countess rise to go .
' come , there be not much of a crowd now , ' say Vronsky .
the maid take one bag and the little dog , the major - domo and the porter take the other bag .
Vronsky give his arm to his mother , but , just as they be come out of the carriage , several people run past they with frightened face .
the station - master with his peculiar coloured cap also run past they .
evidently something unusual have happen .
the people be run back from the train .
' what ? ...
what ? ...
where ? ...
throw himself under ... run over ... ' shout the passer - by .
Oblonsky , with his sister on his arm , also turn back , and , avoid the crowd , stand with frightened face beside the carriage .
the lady re - enter the carriage , while Vronsky and Oblonsky follow the crowd , to find out about the accident .
a watchman , either tipsy or too much muffle up because of the severe frost , have not hear a tram that be be shunt , and have be run over .
before Vronsky and Oblonsky return the lady have hear this from the major - domo .
Oblonsky and Vronsky have both see the mangled corpse .
Oblonsky be evidently suffer .
his face be pucker and he seem ready to cry .
' ah , how terrible !
oh , Anna , if you have see it !
ah , how terrible ! ' he keep say .
Vronsky remain silent . his handsome face be serious but perfectly calm .
' oh , if you have see it , Countess , ' say Oblonsky . and his wife be there ...
it be dreadful to see she .
she throw herself on the body .
they say he be the sole support of a very large family .
it be terrible ! '
' can nothing be do for she ? ' say Mrs. Karenina in an agitated whisper .
Vronsky glance at she and at once go out .
' I will be back directly , maman , ' he add , turn at the doorway .
when he return a few minute later Oblonsky be already talk to the Countess about the new opera singer , while she be impatiently glance at the door in expectation of her son .
' now let us go , ' say Vronsky as he come in .
they go together , Vronsky walk in front with his mother , Mrs. Karenina follow with her brother .
at the exit the stationmaster overtake they , and say to Vronsky :
' you give my assistant 200 rouble .
please be so kind as to say whom you intend it for . '
' for the widow , ' say Vronsky , shrug his shoulder . ' I do not understand what need there be to ask . '
' you have give it ! ' exclaim Oblonsky behind Vronsky , and press his sister 's arm he add , ' very kind , very kind !
be not he a fine fellow ?
my respect to you , Countess , ' and he remain behind with his sister , seek her maid .
when they come out , the Vronskys ' carriage have already start .
the people come from the station be still talk about the accident .
' what a terrible death ! ' say some gentleman as he pass they ; ' cut in half , I hear . '
' on the contrary , I think it be a very easy death , instantaneous , ' say another .
' how be it that precaution be not take ? ' say a third .
Mrs. Karenina get into her brother 's carriage , and Oblonsky notice with surprise that her lip be tremble and that it be with difficulty she keep back her tear .
' what be the matter with you , Anna ? ' he ask when they have go a few hundred yard .
' it be a bad omen , ' she reply .
' what nonsense ! ' say Oblonsky . ' you be here , and that be the chief thing .
you can not think how my hope rest on you . '
' and have you know Vronsky long ? ' she ask .
' yes .
do you know we hope he will marry Kitty ? '
' yes ? ' say Anna softly . ' but let we talk about your affair , ' she add , shake her head as if she wish physically to drive away something superfluous that hamper she .
' let we talk of your affair . I 've receive your letter and have come . '
' yes , all my hope be fix on you , ' say her brother .
' well , tell I all about it . '
and Oblonsky begin his story .
on reach his house , he help his sister out of the carriage , press her hand , and drive off to his office .
when ANNA ARRIVED Dolly be sit in her little drawing - room give a fair - haired , plump little boy ( who already resemble his father ) a french reading - lesson .
the boy , as he read , keep twist and try to pull off a loose button that hang from his jacket .
his mother move his plump little hand away several time , but it always return to the button .
at last she pull the button off and put it into her pocket .
' keep your hand quiet , Grisha , ' she say , and again take up the rug she be knit , a piece of work begin long ago , to which she always return in time of trouble , and which she be now knit , nervously throw the stitch over with her finger and count they .
though she have send word to her husband the day before that she do not care whether his sister come or not , she have prepare everything for her visit and await she with agitation .
Dolly be overpower by her sorrow and be quite absorb by it .
nevertheless , she remember that her sister - in - law , Anna , be the wife of one of the most important man in Petersburg , and a grande dame .
thank to that circumstance she do not carry out her threat to her husband , and do not forget that her sister - in - law be come .
' after all , it be not in the least Anna 's fault , ' think she . ' I know nothing but good about she , and she have never show I anything but kindness and friendship . '
it be true that , as far as she could remember her visit to the Karenins in Petersburg , she have not like their house : there seem to be something false in the tone of their family life .
' but why should I not receive she ?
if only she do not try to console I ! ' think dolly . ' all these consolation and exhortation and Christian forgiveness , I have consider they a thousand time , and they be all no good . '
all these last day Dolly have be alone with her child .
she do not wish to talk about her sorrow , yet with that on her mind she could not talk about indifferent matter .
she know that , one way or other , she would tell Anna everything , and now it please she to think how she would say it , and then she feel vex to have to speak of her humiliation to she – his sister – and to hear from her set phrase of exhortation and consolation .
as it often happen , though she keep look at the clock , wait for Anna , she let the moment when her visitor arrive go by without even hear the bell .
and when she hear soft step and the rustle of petticoat already in the doorway , she look round with an expression not of pleasure but of surprise on her careworn face .
she rise and embrace her sister - in - law .
' so you be here already ? ' she say , kiss she .
' dolly , I be so pleased to see you ! '
' and I be pleased too , ' say Dolly with a feeble smile try to guess from Anna 's expression how much she know .
' she must know , ' she think , notice the look of sympathy on Anna 's face . ' come , let I take you to your room , ' she go on , try to put off as long as possible the moment for explanation .
' this be Grisha ?
dear I , how he have grow ! ' say Anna , and having kiss he , she stand with her eye fix on Dolly and blush . ' no , please do not let we go anywhere . '
she take off her shawl and her hat and , having catch it in her black and very curly hair , shake her head to disengage it .
' and you be radiant with joy and health ! ' say dolly almost enviously .
' I ? ... yes , ' say Anna .
' why , dear I , here be Tanya !
you be just the same age as my little Serezha , ' she add , turn to the little girl who have run into the room , and , take she in her arm , Anna kiss she . ' sweet girlie ! darling !
let I see they all . '
she not only mention they all by name , but remember the year and even the month of their birth , their character , and what illness they have have ; and Dolly could not help appreciate this .
' shall we go and see they ? ' she say . ' it be a pity Vasya be asleep . '
having look at the child they return to the drawing - room and , be now alone , sit down to coffee at the table .
Anna take hold of the tray , but then push it aside .
' dolly ' she say ' he have tell I ! '
dolly look coldly at Anna .
she expect now to hear word of insincere sympathy : but Anna say nothing of the kind .
' dolly dear ! ' she begin , ' I do not wish to take his part or console you ; that would be impossible , but , dear , I be simply sorry for you , sorry from the bottom of my heart ! '
her bright eye under their thick lash suddenly fill with tear .
she move close to her sister - in - law and with her energetic little hand take hold of Dolly 's .
the latter do not draw back from she but her face retain its rigid expression .
she say :
' it be impossible to console I .
everything be lose after what have happen , everything destroy ! '
as soon as she have say it her face soften .
Anna lift Dolly 's dry thin hand , kiss it , and say :
' but what be to be do , Dolly , what be to be do ?
what be the good way of act in this dreadful position ? that be what one have to consider . '
' everything be at an end , and that be all , ' say Dolly . ' and the bad of it be , you understand , that I can not leave he : there be the child , and I be bind .
yet I can not live with he ; it be torture for I to see he . '
' dolly , my darling , he have speak to I , but I want to hear it from you . tell I everything . '
dolly look at she inquiringly .
sincere sympathy and affection be visible in Anna 's face .
' if you like , ' say dolly suddenly , ' but I will begin from the beginning .
you know how I be marry .
with the education Mama give I , I be not merely naive , but silly ! I know nothing .
I know they say husband tell their wife how they have live , but Steve ... ' she correct herself .
' but Stephen Arkadyevich never tell I anything . you will hardly believe it , but up to now I think I be the only woman he have ever know .
in this way I live for nine year .
only think , that I not only do not suspect he of unfaithfulness , but think it impossible . I then ... just imagine , with such idea suddenly to find out all the horror , all the abomination ...
try to understand I .
to be fully convince of one 's happiness and suddenly ... ' continue Dolly , suppress her sobs , ' to read a letter , his letter to his mistress , my child 's governess . no , it be too horrible ! '
she hurriedly draw out her handkerchief and hide her face in it . ' I could perhaps understand a momentary slip , ' she go on after a pause , ' but deliberately , cunningly to deceive I ... and with whom ?
to go on live with I as my husband , and with she at the same time .... it be awful ; you can not realize ... '
' oh yes , I do , I do understand , Dolly dear , I do understand , ' say Anna , press her hand .
' and do you think he realize the horror of my situation ? ' continue Dolly . ' not at all !
he be happy and contented . '
' oh no , ' Anna quickly interrupt . ' he be pitiable , he be overwhelmed with remorse ... '
' be he capable of remorse ? ' interrupt Dolly , look searchingly into her sister - in - law 's face .
' oh yes , I know he .
I could not look at he without pity .
we both know he .
he be kind - hearted , but he be proud too , and now he be so humiliated .
what move I most be ... ( and here Anna guess what would touch Dolly most ) that two thing torment he . he be ashamed of the child , and that , love you ... yes , yes , love you more than anything else in the world , ' she hurriedly go on , not listen to Dolly who be about to reply , ' he have hurt you , hit you so hard .
he keep say , ' " no , no , she will not forgive me!"- '
dolly , gaze beyond her sister - in - law , listen thoughtfully .
' yes , I understand that his position be dreadful ; it be bad for the guilty than for the innocent one , ' she say , ' if he feel that the misfortune all come from his fault .
but how can I forgive he , how can I be a wife to he after she ? ...
life with he now will be a torture for I , just because I love my old love for he ... '
Sobs cut short her word .
but as if intentionally every time she soften , she again begin to speak of the thing that irritate she .
' you know she be young , she be pretty , ' she say . ' you see , Anna , my youth and my good look have be sacrifice , and to whom ?
for he and his child .
I have serve his purpose and lose all I have in the service , and of course a fresh , good - for - nothing creature now please he well .
they probably talk about I , or , bad still , avoid the subject ... you understand ? '
and hatred again burn in her eye . ' and after that he will tell I ...
be I to believe he ?
never ... no , it be all end , all that serve as a consolation , as a reward for my labour , my suffering ...
will you believe I , I have just be teach Grisha : it use to be a pleasure , and now it be a torment .
what be the good of my taking pain , of work so hard ?
what use be the child ?
it be terrible , my soul have so revolt that instead of love and tenderness for he I have nothing but anger leave , yes , anger .
I could kill he ... '
' dolly dear ! I understand , but do not torture yourself .
you be so deeply hurt , so upset , that you see many thing in the wrong light . '
Dolly be silent , and for a moment or two neither speak .
' what be I to do ? think it over , Anna , help I !
I have turn over in my mind everything I could think of , and can find nothing . '
Anna could not think of anything , but her heart respond to every word and every look of Dolly 's .
' all I can say be , ' begin Anna , ' I be his sister and I know his character , his capacity for forget everything , ' she make a gesture with her hand in front of her forehead , ' that capacity for let himself be completely carry away , but on the other hand for completely repent .
he can hardly believe now – can hardly understand – how he could do it . '
' no , he understand and understand , ' dolly interrupt . ' and I ... you forget I ... do it make it easy for I ? '
' wait a bit .
when he be speak to I , I confess I do not quite realize the misery of your position .
I see only his side , and that the family be upset , and I be sorry for he , but now having speak with you I as a woman see something else . I see your suffering and I can not tell you how sorry I be for you .
but , Dolly dearest , I fully understand your suffering – yet there be one thing I do not know . I do not know ...
I do not know how much love there still be in your soul – you alone know that . be there enough for forgiveness ?
if there be – then forgive he . '
' no , ' dolly begin , but Anna stop she and again kiss her hand .
' I know the world well than you do , ' she say . ' I know man like Steve and how they see these thing .
you think he speak to she about you .
that never happen .
these man may be unfaithful , but their home , their wife , be their holy place .
they manage in some way to hold these woman in contempt and do not let they interfere with the family .
they seem to draw some kind of line between the family and those other .
I do not understand it , but it be so . '
' yes , but he kiss she ... '
' dolly , wait a bit .
I have see Steve when he be in love with you .
I remember his come to I and weeping ( what poetry and high ideal you be bind up with in his mind ! ) , and I know that the long he live with you the high you rise in his esteem .
you know we use to laugh at he because his every third word be , " dolly be a wonderful woman . "
you have be and still be his divinity , and this infatuation never reach his soul ... '
' but suppose the infatuation be repeat ? '
' it can not be , as I understand ... '
' and you , would you forgive ? '
' I do not know , I can not judge ...
yes , I can , ' say Anna , after a minute 's consideration . her mind have take in and weigh the situation , and she add , ' yes , I can , I can .
yes , I should forgive .
I should not remain the same woman – no , but I should forgive , and forgive it as utterly as if it have never happen at all . '
' well , of course ... ' dolly put in quickly as if say what she have often herself think , ' or else it would not be forgiveness .
if one be to forgive , it must be entire forgiveness .
well now , I will show you your room . ' she rise , and on the way embrace Anna .
' my dear , how glad I be you come ! I feel well now , much well . '
the whole of that DAY Anna remain at home , that be at the Oblonskys ' house , and do not receive anybody , although several of her acquaintance who have hear of her arrival come to see she .
she spend the early part of the day with Dolly and the child , and send a note to her brother to be sure and come home to dinner .
' come , ' she write . ' God be merciful . '
Oblonsky dine at home , the conversation be general , and his wife address he familiarly in the second person singular , which she have not do all these day .
there be still the same estrangement in their manner to each other , but no long any question of separate , and Oblonsky see that explanation and reconciliation be possible .
immediately after dinner Kitty come .
she know Anna , but only slightly , and come to her sister be not without fear of how she might be receive by this Petersburg Society woman whom everybody admire so much .
but she notice at once that Anna like she .
it be evident that her beauty and youth give Anna pleasure and before Kitty have time to regain her self - possession she feel not only that she be under Anna 's influence but that she be in love with she , as young girl often be with married woman old than themselves .
Anna be not like a Society woman or the mother of an eight - year - old son . the flexibility of her figure , her freshness , and the natural animation of her face appear now in her smile , now in her eye , would have make she look more like a girl of twenty have it not be for a serious and sometimes even sad expression in her eye which strike Kitty and attract she .
Kitty feel that Anna be perfectly unaffected and be not try to conceal anything , but that she live in another , high world full of complex poetic interest beyond Kitty 's reach .
after dinner , when Dolly have go to her own room , Anna get up quickly and go to her brother who be just light a cigar .
' Steve , ' she say to he with a merry twinkle in her eye and make the sign of the cross over he as she indicate the door with a look . ' go , and may God help you . '
he understand , throw down his cigar , and disappear through the door .
when Oblonsky have go , she return to the sofa where she have be sit surround by the child .
whether because they see that ' mama ' be fond of this aunt , or because they themselves feel her peculiar charm , first the two elder child and then the young one , as be often the way with child , have even before dinner begin cling to she , and now would not leave her side .
and they start something like a game which consist in try to get as close to she as possible , to touch she , hold her little hand , kiss she , play with her ring , or at least touch the frill of her dress .
' now how be we sit before ? ' say Anna , resume her seat .
and Grisha again push his head under her arm and lean against her dress beam with pride and joy .
' and when be the ball to be ? ' say Anna , turn to Kitty .
' next week , and it will be a delightful ball .
one of those ball which be always jolly . '
' be there any that be always jolly ? ' ask Anna with tender irony .
' it be strange , but there be !
it be always jolly at the Bobrishchevs ' and also at the Nikitins ' , while it be always dull at the Mezhkovs ' .
have not you notice it ? '
' no , my dear , there be no more jolly ball for I , ' say Anna , and Kitty see in her eye that peculiar world which be not yet reveal to she . ' there be some that be not as difficult and dull as the rest . '
' how can you be dull at a ball ? '
' why can not I be dull at a ball ? ' ask Anna .
Kitty see that Anna know the answer that would follow .
' because you must always be the belle of the ball . '
Anna have a capacity for blushing .
she blush and answer ,
' in the first place , I never be : but even if I be , what use would it be to I ? '
' will you go to that ball ? ' ask Kitty .
' I suppose I shall have to .
here , take this , ' she say , turn to Tanya who be draw off a ring which fit loosely on her aunt 's small tapering finger .
' I shall be very glad if you go . I should so like to see you at a ball . '
' well , then , if I have to go , I shall console myself with the reflection that it will give you pleasure ...
Grisha , please do not pull so hard , it be all in a tangle already , ' she say , arrange a loose lock of hair with which Grisha be play .
' I imagine you at that ball in lilac ! '
' why must it be lilac ? ' ask Anna half laugh . ' now , child , run away , run away .
do not you hear ?
there be Miss Hull call you to tea , ' she go on , disengage herself from the child and dispatch they to the dining - room .
' but I know why you be ask I to go to that ball .
you be expect much from it , and would like everybody to be there and have a share in it . '
' how do you know ?
well , yes ! '
' oh yes , it be good to be your age , ' Anna continue . ' I remember and know that blue mist , like the mist on the swiss mountain ... that mist which envelop everything at that blissful time when childhood be just , just come to an end , and its immense , blissful circle turn into an ever - narrow path , and you enter the defile gladly yet with dread , though it seem bright and beautiful ...
who have not pass through it ? '
Kitty smile and remain silent .
' how do she pass through it ?
how I should like to know her story ! ' think she , recollect the unpoetic appearance of Anna 's husband Alexis Karenin .
' I know something – Steve tell I and I congratulate you .
I like he very much , ' Anna continue . ' I meet Vronsky at the railway station . '
' oh , be he there ? ' ask Kitty , blushing . ' what do Steve tell you ? '
' Steve let it all out to I , and I shall be very pleased .
I travel yesterday with Vronsky 's mother , ' she continue , ' and she talk about he all the time . he be her favourite son .
' what do his mother tell you ? '
' oh very much ! and I know he be her favourite , but anyone can see he be full of chivalry ...
for instance she tell I that he wish to give all his property to his brother , that already as a boy he have do something extraordinary , save a woman from drown .
in a word , he be a hero , ' say Anna , smile and remember the 200 rouble he have give away at the station .
but she do not mention the 200 rouble .
for some reason she do not like to think about they .
she feel that there have be something in it relate personally to she that should not have be .
' she particularly wish I to go and see she , ' continue Anna . ' I shall be glad to see the old lady again , and will go to - morrow .
well , thank heaven Steve be stop a long time with Dolly , ' she add change the subject , and she rise , dissatisfied with something , Kitty think .
' I be first ! ' ' no , I ! ' cry the child , who having finish their tea rush back to Aunt Anna .
' all together ! ' say Anna laugh and run to meet they , and put her arm round they she tumble the whole heap of child – struggle and shriek joyfully – on to the floor .
DOLLY come out of HER ROOM for the grow - up people 's tea .
Oblonsky do not appear .
he have probably leave his wife 's room by the other door .
' I be afraid you will be cold upstairs , ' remark Dolly to Anna . ' I want to move you down , and then we shall be near to one another . '
' oh , please do not trouble about I , ' say Anna , scrutinize Dolly 's face and try to discover whether a reconciliation have take place .
' it will be too light for you downstairs , ' say her sister - in - law .
' I assure you that I sleep always and anywhere like a dormouse . '
' what be you talk about ? ' ask Oblonsky , enter the room from his study and address his wife .
from his tone both Kitty and Anna gather that a reconciliation have take place .
' I want to move Anna downstairs , only the curtain must be change .
I shall have to do it myself , no one else can do it , ' dolly answer address he .
' goodness know if they have quite make it up , ' think Anna on hear her tone , which be cold and calm .
' come now , dolly ! always make difficulty , ' say her husband . ' if you like I will do it all . '
' yes , they must have come together again , ' think Anna .
' I know how you will do it all , ' answer Dolly . ' you will tell Matthew to do something that can not be do and will go away yourself , and he will muddle everything , ' and as she speak her usual ironical smile wrinkle the corner of Dolly 's mouth .
' yes , a full , a full reconciliation , quite complete . thank God ! ' think Anna , and pleased to have be the mean of bring it about , she go up to Dolly and kiss she .
' not at all . why do you so despise Matthew and I ? ' say Oblonsky , turn to his wife with a slight smile .
all that evening Dolly maintain her usual slightly banter manner toward her husband , and Oblonsky be contented and cheerful , but not to the extent of seem to forget his guilt after having obtain forgiveness .
at half - past nine an unusually pleasant and happy family conversation round the Oblonskys ' tea - table be disturb by an apparently very ordinary occurrence which yet strike they all as strange .
while they be talk about their mutual Petersburg acquaintance Anna rise suddenly .
' I have her photo in my album , ' say she , ' and I will show you my Serezha 's too , ' she add with a mother 's proud smile .
for toward ten o'clock – the time when she generally say good - night to her son and often put he to bed herself before go to a ball – she feel sad at be so far from he , and , whatever they talk about , her thought keep return to her curly - headed Serezha .
she long to look at his portrait and to talk about he .
seize the first opportunity she rise and , step firmly and lightly , go out to fetch her album .
the flight of stair to her room go up from a landing of the well - heat front staircase .
as she be come out of the drawing - room there be a ring at the door .
' who can it be ? ' ask Dolly .
' it be too early to fetch I , and late for anyone else , ' say Kitty .
' paper from the office for I , I expect , ' say Oblonsky . a footman run up to announce the new arrival , who stand at the foot of the stair under a lamp .
Anna look down from the landing where she stand and at once recognize Vronsky , and a strange feeling of pleasure mix with fear suddenly stir in her heart .
he stand in his overcoat , feel for something in his pocket .
when Anna be half - way up the top flight , he lift his eye and see she , and a look of something like embarrassment and fear come into his face .
she bow slightly and go on . she hear Oblonsky 's loud voice downstairs ask he to come in , and Vronsky 's low , soft voice refuse .
when Anna return with her album he have already go , and Oblonsky be say that Vronsky have call to inquire about a dinner they be give next day to a celebrity who be visit Moscow , but that he could not be induce to come in .
' he seem so queer , ' add Oblonsky .
Kitty blush .
she think that she alone understand why he have come to the house and why he would not come in .
' he have be to our house , ' she think , ' and not find I in he guess that I be here . and he would not come in because Anna be here , and he think it too late . '
they all glance at one another and say nothing but begin examine Anna 's album .
there be nothing extraordinary or strange in the fact that a man have call at half - past nine at a friend 's house to ask about a dinner they be plan and that he would not come in ; but it seem strange to all of they .
to Anna in particular it seem strange and not right .
the ball had only just BEGUN when Kitty and her mother ascend the broad staircase which be deluge with light , decorate with flower plant , and occupy by powdered footman in red livery .
from the ballroom as from a bee - hive come the regular sound of movement , and while they be arrange their hair and dress before a mirror on the landing between the plant they hear the accurate measure sound of the orchestra violin just begin the first waltz .
a little old man , who have smooth the grey hair on his temple before the mirror and who smelt strongly of scent , happen to jostle they on the stair , and step aside in evident admiration of Kitty , whom he do not know .
a beardless youth , one of those whom the old Prince Shcherbatsky call puppy , with a very low - cut waistcoat , straighten his white tie as he go along , bow to they and run past but return to ask Kitty for a quadrille .
she have give the first quadrille to Vronsky and have to give the second to this youth .
an officer , button his glove , stand aside at the doorway to make room for they , and smooth his moustache look with evident pleasure at the rosy Kitty .
although Kitty 's gown and coiffure and all her other adornment have give she much trouble and think , she now enter the ballroom in her complicated dress of white net over a pink slip , as easily and simply as if these bow and lace and all the detail of her toilet have not cost she or her people a moment 's attention , as if she have be bear in this net and lace and with that high coiffure and the rose and its two leave on the top .
when , just before enter the ball - room , her mother wish to put straight a twisted end of her sash , Kitty draw slightly back : she feel that everything on she must be naturally right and graceful and that there be no need to adjust anything .
it be one of Kitty 's happy day .
her dress do not feel tight anywhere , the lace around her bodice do not slip , the bow do not crumple or come off , the pink shoe with their high curved heel do not pinch but seem to make her foot light . the thick roll of fair hair keep up as if they have grow naturally so on the little head .
all three button on each of her long glove , which fit without change the shape of her hand , fasten without come off .
the black velvet ribbon of her locket clasp her neck with unusual softness .
that ribbon be charming , and when Kitty have look at her neck in the glass at home , she feel that that ribbon be eloquent .
there might be some possible doubt about anything else , but that ribbon be charming .
Kitty smile , here at the ball , when she catch sight of it again in the mirror .
her bare shoulder and arm give she a sensation as of cold marble , a feeling she like very much .
her eye shine and she could not keep her rosy lip from smile at the consciousness of her attractive appearance .
before she have reach the light - coloured crowd of woman in tulle , ribbon , and lace , who be wait for partner ( Kitty never long form one of the crowd ) , she be already ask for the waltz and ask by the good dancer , the leader of the dancing hierarchy , the famous dirigeur and Master of the Ceremonies , a handsome , stately married man , George Korsunsky .
he have just leave the Countess Bonin , with whom he have dance the first round of the waltz , and look round his domain – that be to say , a few couple who have begin to dance – he notice Kitty just come in . he approach she at that peculiar free and easy amble natural only to Masters of Ceremonies , bow , and , without even ask her consent , put his arm round her slim waist .
she look about for some one to hold her fan and the mistress of the house take it from she with a smile .
' how fine that you have come in good time , ' he say with his arm round her waist . ' it be wrong of people to come so late . '
bend her left arm she put her hand on his shoulder , and her little foot in their pink shoe begin move quickly , lightly , and rhythmically in time with the music , over the smooth parquet floor .
' it be a rest to waltz with you , ' he say as he take the first slow step of the dance . ' what lightness and precision ! it be delightful ! ' he remark , say to she what he say to almost all the dancing partner whom he really like .
she smile at his praise , and over his shoulder continue to survey the ball - room .
she be not a girl just come out , for whom all face at a ball blend into one fairy - like vision ; nor be she a girl who have be drag from ball to ball till all the face be familiar to dullness . she be between those two extreme , and though elated be able to control herself sufficiently to be observant .
she see that the elite of the company be group in the left - hand corner of the room .
there be the beauty Lida , Korsunsky 's wife , in an impossibly low dress , and the hostess , and there shine the bald head of Krivin who be always where the elite be ; youth who have not the courage to approach gaze in that direction , and there Kitty 's eye find Stephen , and then the lovely head and beautiful figure of Anna , in a black velvet dress .
and he be there .
Kitty have not see he since the day she have refuse Levin .
with her far - sight eye she recognize he at once and even notice that he be look at she .
' shall we have another turn ?
you be not tired ? ' ask Korsunsky who be a little out of breath .
' no more turn , thank you . '
' where may I take you ? '
' I believe Anna Arkadyevna Karenina be here , take I to she . '
' wherever you please . '
and Korsunsky waltz toward the left of the room , gradually diminish his step and repeat ' Pardon , madame , pardon , pardon , madame , ' as he steer through that sea of lace , tulle and ribbon without touch as much as a feather , and then turn his partner so suddenly that her delicate ankle in the open - work stocking appear as her train spread out like a fan and cover Krivin 's knee .
Korsunsky bow , straighten his broad shirt front , and offer Kitty his arm to conduct she to Anna .
Kitty flush and , a little giddy , take her train off Krivin 's knee and look round for Anna .
Anna be not in lilac , the colour Kitty be so sure she ought to have wear , but in a low - necked black velvet dress which expose her full shoulder and bosom that seem carve out of old ivory , and her rounded arm with the very small hand .
her dress be richly trim with venetian lace .
in her black hair , all her own , she wear a little garland of pansy , and in her girdle , among the lace , a bunch of the same flower .
her coiffure be very unobtrusive .
the only noticeable thing about it be the wilful ringlet that always escape at her temple and on the nape of her neck and add to her beauty .
round her finely chisel neck she wear a string of pearl .
Kitty have be see Anna every day and be in love with she and have always imagine she in lilac , but see she in black she feel that she have never before realize her full charm .
she now see she in a new and quite unexpected light .
she now realize that Anna could not have wear lilac , and that her charm lie precisely in the fact that her personality always stand out from her dress , that her dress be never conspicuous on she .
and her black velvet with rich lace be not at all conspicuous , but serve only as a frame ; she alone be noticeable – simple , natural , elegant and at the same time merry and animate .
she be stand among that group , very erect as usual , and be talk to the master of the house with her head slightly turn toward he , when Kitty approach .
' no , I be not go to throw the first stone , ' she be say in reply to some question , add , with a shrug of her shoulder , ' although I can not understand it ' ; and at once she turn to Kitty with a tender protect smile .
she survey Kitty 's dress with a rapid feminine glance and with a movement of her head , scarcely perceptible but understand by Kitty , she signify her approval of Kitty 's dress and beauty .
' you even come into the room dancing , ' she say . ' she be one of my most faithful helper , ' say Korsunsky , turn to Anna whom he have not yet see .
' the Princess help to make a ball gay and beautiful . Anna Arkadyevna , shall we have a turn ? ' he add , stoop toward she .
' oh , you know one another ? ' ask the host .
' whom do we not know ?
my wife and I be like white wolf , every one know we , ' answer Korsunsky . ' Anna Arkadyevna , just one turn ? '
' I do not dance if it be possible not to , ' she say .
' but to - night it be not possible , ' he rejoin .
at that moment Vronsky approach .
' well , if it be impossible not to dance to - night , let we dance , ' she say take no notice of Vronsky 's bow and quickly put her hand on Korsunsky 's shoulder .
' why be she displeased with he ? ' think Kitty , notice that Anna have intentionally take no notice of Vronsky 's bow .
he come up to Kitty , remind she of the first quadrille and regret that he have not see she for such a long time .
Kitty , while gaze with admiration at Anna waltzing , listen to he , expect he to ask she to waltz , but he do not do so and she glance at he with surprise .
he blush and hurriedly ask she to dance , but scarcely have he put his arm round her slim waist and take one step when the music stop .
Kitty look into his face which be so near her own , and long after – for year after – that look so full of love which she then give he , and which meet with no response from he , cut she to the heart with torment shame .
' Pardon , pardon , a waltz – a waltz , ' shout Korsunsky from the other end of the room , and seize the first girl within reach he himself begin dance .
VRONSKY and kitty WALTZED several time round the room and then Kitty go to her mother , but hardly have she exchange a few word with the Countess Nordston before Vronsky return to fetch she for the first quadrille .
nothing special be say during the quadrille : they talk in snatch about the Korsunskys , husband and wife , whom Vronsky very amusingly describe as dear forty - year - old child , and about a propose Stage Society , and only once do the conversation touch she to the quick – when he ask she about Levin , whether he be still in Moscow , and add that he have like he very much .
but Kitty have not expect more from the quadrille , she wait with a clutch at her heart for the mazurka .
it seem to she that the mazurka would settle everything .
that he do not ask she for the mazurka while they be dance the quadrille do not disturb she .
she be sure that she would dance the mazurka with he as at previous ball , and she refuse five other partner for that dance , say that she be already engage .
the whole ball up to the last quadrille be for Kitty an enchanted dream of gay flower , sound and movement .
she only stop dance when she feel too tired and have to ask to be allow a rest .
but while dance the last quadrille with one of the youthful bore whom it would not do to refuse , she happen to be vis - à - vis to Anna .
she have not come across Anna since the beginning of the ball , and now she suddenly see she again in a different and unexpected light .
she notice that Anna be elated with success , a feeling Kitty herself know so well .
she see that Anna be intoxicate by the rapture she have produce .
she know the feeling and know its symptom , and recognize they in Anna – she see the quiver light flash in her eye , the smile of happiness and elation that involuntarily curl her lip , and the graceful precision , the exactitude and lightness , of her movement .
' who be the cause ? ' she ask herself . ' all or only one ? '
and without try to help her youthful partner who be painfully struggle to carry on the conversation the thread of which he have lose , as she mechanically obey the merry , loud , and authoritative order of Korsunsky , who command every one to form now a grand rond , now a chaine , she watch , and her heart sink more and more .
' no , it be not the admiration of the crowd that intoxicate she , but the rapture of one , and that one be ... can it be he ? '
every time he speak to Anna the joyful light kindle in her eye and a smile of pleasure curve her rosy lip .
she seem to make effort to restrain these sign of joy , but they appear on her face of their own accord .
' but what of he ? '
Kitty look at he and be fill with horror .
what she see so distinctly in the mirror of Anna 's face , she see in he .
what have become of his usually quiet and firm manner and the carelessly calm expression of his face ?
every time he turn toward Anna he slightly bow his head as if he wish to fall down before she , and in his eye there be an expression of submission and fear .
' I do not wish to offend , ' his every look seem to say , ' I only wish to save myself , but I do not know how . '
his face have an expression which she have never see before .
they talk about their mutual friend , carry on a most unimportant conversation , but it seem to Kitty that every word they say be decide their and her fate .
and , strange to say , though they be talk about Ivan Ivanich , who make himself so ridiculous with his French , and how Miss Eletskaya could have make a well match , yet these word be important for they and they feel this as well as Kitty .
a mist come over the ball and the whole world in Kitty 's soul .
only the thorough training she have have enable and oblige she to do what be expect of she , that is , to dance , to answer the question put to she , to talk , and even to smile .
but before the mazurka begin , when the chair be already be place for it , and several couple move from the small to the large ball - room , Kitty be for a moment seize with despair .
she have refuse five man who have ask for the mazurka and now she have no partner for it .
she have not even a hope of be ask again just because she have too much success in Society for anyone to think that she be not already engage for the dance .
she must tell her mother that she be feel ill , and go home , but she have not the strength to do it .
she feel herself quite broken - hearted .
she go to the far end of a little drawing - room and sink into an easy chair .
her light skirt stand out like a cloud round her slight body ; one thin bare girlish arm drop listlessly and sink into the pink fold of her tunic , the other hand hold a fan with which she rapidly fan her flushed face .
but although she seem like a butterfly just settle on a blade of grass and ready at any moment to flutter and spread its rainbow wing , her heart be crush with terrible despair .
' but perhaps I be mistaken , perhaps it be nothing of the kind ? '
and she again recall all that she have witness .
' Kitty , what do this mean ? ' ask the Countess Nordston , come up inaudibly over the carpet . ' I do not understand it . '
Kitty 's nether lip tremble , and she rise quickly .
' Kitty , be you not dance the mazurka ? '
' no , no , ' say Kitty in a voice tremulous with tear .
' he ask she for the mazurka in my presence , ' say the Countess , know that Kitty would understand whom she mean by ' he ' and ' she . '
' she ask , " be you not dance with the Princess Shcherbatsky?"- '
' oh ! it be all the same to I ! ' reply Kitty . no one but herself understand her situation , because no one know that she have only a few day ago refuse a man whom she perhaps love , and refuse he because she trust another .
the Countess Nordston , who be engage to Korsunsky for the mazurka , tell he to ask Kitty instead .
Kitty dance in the first pair , and luckily for she she be not oblige to talk , because Korsunsky run about all the time give order in his domain .
Vronsky and Anna sit almost opposite to she .
and she see they with her far - sight eye , she see they close by , too ; when they meet in the dance , and the more she see of they the surer she be that the blow have fall .
she see that they feel as if they be alone in that crowd ball - room .
on Vronsky 's face , usually so firm and self - possess she notice that expression of bewilderment and submission which have so surprised she – an expression like that of an intelligent dog when it feel guilty .
Anna smile – and the smile pass on to he ; she become thoughtful – and he become serious .
some supernatural power attract Kitty 's eye to Anna 's face .
she look charming in her simple black dress ; her full arm with the bracelet , her firm neck with the string of pearl round it , her curly hair now disarrange , every graceful movement of her small foot and hand , her handsome , animate face , – everything about she be enchanting , but there be something terrible and cruel in her charm .
Kitty admire she even more than before , and suffer more and more .
she feel herself crush and her face express it .
when Vronsky happen to knock against she as they dance , he do not at once recognize she , so changed be she .
' a delightful ball , ' he remark , in order to say something .
' yes , ' she reply .
in the middle of the mazurka , perform a complicated figure newly - invent by Korsunsky , Anna step into the middle of the room and choose two man and two lady , one of whom be Kitty , to join she .
Kitty , as she move toward Anna , gaze at she with fear .
Anna half - close her eye to look at Kitty , smile and press her hand , but notice that Kitty only respond to her smile by a look of surprise and despair , she turn away from she and talk cheerfully with the other lady .
' yes , there be something strange , satanic , and enchanting about she , ' think Kitty .
Anna do not wish to stay to supper , but the master of the house try to persuade she to do so .
' come , Anna Arkadyevna , ' begin Korsunsky , draw her bare arm under his , ' I have such a good idea for a cotillion – Un bijou . '
and he move slowly on , try to draw she with he .
their host smile approvingly .
' no , I will not stay , ' answer Anna , smile , and despite her smile Korsunsky and the host understand from the firm tone of her voice that she would not stay . ' no , as it be I have dance more in Moscow at your one ball than I dance the whole winter in Petersburg , ' say Anna , look round at Vronsky who stand beside she . ' I must rest before my journey . '
' so you really be go to - morrow ? ' say Vronsky .
' yes , I think so , ' Anna reply as if surprise at the boldness of his question ; but the uncontrollable radiance of her eye and her smile burn he as she speak the word .
Anna do not stay for supper , but go away .
' yes , there be certainly something objectionable and repellent about I , ' think Levin after leave the Shcherbatskys , as he walk toward his brother 's lodging . ' I do not get on with other people .
they say it be pride !
no , I be not even proud .
if I have any pride , I should not have put myself into such a position . '
and he picture to himself Vronsky , happy , kind , clever , calm , and certainly never place himself in such a terrible position as he , Levin , have be in that evening .
' yes , she be bind to choose he .
it have to be so , and I have no cause to complain of anyone or anything .
it be my own fault .
what right have I to imagine that she would wish to unite her life with mine ?
who and what be I ?
a man of no account , want by no one and of no use to anyone . '
and he remember his brother Nicholas , and keep his mind gladly on that memory .
' be he not right that everything on earth be evil and horrid ?
and have we judge brother Nicholas fairly ?
of course , from Prokofy 's point of view , who see he in a ragged coat and tipsy , he be a despicable fellow ; but I know he from another side .
I know his soul , and know that we resemble one another .
and yet I , instead of look he up , dine out and come here . '
Levin go up to a lamp - post and read his brother 's address which he have in his pocket - book , and then hire a sledge .
on the long way to his brother 's he recall all the event he know of Nicholas 's life .
he recall how despite the ridicule of his fellow - student his brother have live like a monk while at the University and for a year after , strictly observe all the religious rite , attend service , fast , avoid all pleasure and especially woman ; and then how he suddenly break loose , become intimate with the vile people and give himself up to unbridled debauchery .
he remember how his brother have bring a boy from the country to educate , and in a fit of anger have so beat the lad that proceeding be commence against he for cause bodily harm .
he remember an affair with a sharp to whom his brother have lose money , and whom he have first give a promissory note and then prosecute on a charge of fraud .
( that be when his brother Sergius have pay the money for he . )
then he remember the night which Nicholas have spend in the police cell for disorderly conduct , and the disgraceful proceeding he have instigate against his brother Sergius Ivanich , whom he accuse of not having pay out to he his share of his mother 's fortune : and lastly , the time when his brother take an official appointment in one of the Western Provinces and be there arrest for assault an elder ...
it be all very disgusting , but to Levin it do not seem nearly so disgusting as it must have seem to those who do not know Nicholas , nor his whole story , nor his heart .
Levin remember that when Nicholas be pass through his pious stage of fast , visit monk , and go to church ; when he be seek in religion for help to curb his passionate nature , not only do no one encourage he , but every one , and Levin among they , make fun of he .
he be tease and call ' noah ' and ' monk , ' and then when he break loose no one help he , but all turn away from he with horror and disgust .
Levin feel that his brother Nicholas , in his soul , in the innermost depth of his soul , despite the depravity of his life , be no bad than those who despise he .
it be not his fault that he be bear with his ungovernable temper , and with a cramped mind .
he always wish to do right .
' I will tell he everything , I will get he to tell I everything . I will show he that I love and therefore understand he , ' Levin decide in his mind , as toward eleven o'clock he drive up to the hotel of which he have the address .
' Upstairs , Nos . I2 and I3 , ' say the hall porter in reply to Levin 's question .
' be he in ? '
' I expect so . '
the door of No . I2 be ajar , and from within , visible in the streak of light , issue dense fume of inferior and weak tobacco . Levin hear a stranger 's voice , but know at once that his brother be there , for he hear he cough .
as he enter the doorway the stranger 's voice be say :
' it all depend on how intelligently and rationally the affair be conduct . '
Constantine Levin glance into the room , which be beyond a partition , and see that the speaker be a young man with an enormous head of hair , who wear a workman 's coat , and that a young , pock - mark woman in a woollen dress without collar or cuff [ at that time well - class woman always wear something white round their neck and wrist . ] be sit on the sofa .
he could not see his brother , and his heart sink painfully at the thought that Nicholas live among such strange people .
no one notice he , and , as he take off his golosh , he overhear what the man in the workman 's coat be say .
he be talk about some commercial enterprise .
' oh , let the privileged class go to the devil , ' say his brother 's voice , with a cough .
' Masha , get we some supper and bring the wine if any be leave , or send for some . '
the woman rise , come out from behind the partition and see Constantine .
' here be a gentleman , Nicholas Dmitrich , ' she say .
' whom do you want ? ' say Nicholas Levin 's voice angrily .
' it be I , ' answer Constantine Levin , come forward into the lamp - light .
' who be I ? ' say the voice of Nicholas Levin still more angrily .
Constantine hear how he rise hurriedly and catch against something , and then in the doorway before he he see the familiar yet ever strange figure of his brother , wild , sickly , gigantic , lean , and round - shouldered , with large , frightened eye .
he be even more emaciated than three year before when Constantine Levin have last see he .
he be wear a short coat , and his hand and broad bone appear more immense than ever .
his hair be thin but the same straight moustache cover his lip ; and the same eye with their peculiar , naive gaze look out at the new - comer .
' ah ! Kostya ! ' he say suddenly , recognize his brother , and his eye light up with joy .
but at the same moment he turn to look at the young man and convulsively jerk his head and neck as if his necktie be strangle he , a movement Levin know well , and quite another expression – a wild , suffering , and cruel look – settle on his haggard face .
' I write both to you and to Sergius Ivanich that I do not know you and do not wish to know you .
what be it ? what do you want ? '
he be not at all as Constantine have imagine he .
Constantine when think of he have forget the most trying and bad part of his character , that which make intercourse with he so difficult , but now when he see his face , and especially that convulsive movement of his head , he remember it all .
' I do not want anything of you specially , ' he answer meekly ; ' I have simply come to see you . '
his brother 's timidity obviously soften Nicholas , whose lip quiver .
' ah ! you have come just for that ? ' he say .
' well , come in , sit down .
will you have some supper ? Masha , get supper for three .
no , wait a little .
do you know who this be ? ' he add , turn to his brother and point to the man in the workman 's coat . ' it be Mr. Kritsky , my friend ever since my Kiev day , a very remarkable fellow .
of course the police be after he , because he be not a scoundrel . '
and he glance round at everybody present as be his way .
see that the woman in the doorway be about to go out he shout to she : ' wait , I tell you , ' and in the awkward and blundering manner familiar to Constantine , he again look round at everybody , and begin to tell his brother about Kritsky : how he have be expel from the University because he have start a society to help the poor student , and also Sunday school , and how he have afterwards teach in an elementary school , and have be turn out from that too , and have then be try on some charge or other .
' you be at Kiev University ? ' Constantine Levin ask Kritsky , in order to break the awkward silence that follow .
' yes , at Kiev , ' Kritsky reply with an angry frown .
' and this woman , ' say Nicholas Levin , interrupt he , and point to she , ' be my life 's companion , Mary Nikolavna ; I take she out of a house ... ' and as he say this he again jerk his neck . ' but I love and respect she and beg all those who wish to know I , ' he add , raise his voice and scowling , ' to love and respect she .
she be just the same to I as a wife , just the same .
so now you know whom you have to deal with , and if you fear you will be degrade – there be the door . '
and again his eye glance questioningly around .
' why should I be degrade ? I do not understand . '
' well , Masha , order supper for three , with vodka and wine ...
no , wait .
no , never mind ...
you may go . '
' so you see ... ' NICHOLAS LEVIN continued with an effort , wrinkle his brow and twitching .
he evidently find it hard to decide what to say and to do . ' do you see ... ' he point to a bundle of iron rod tie together with string , in a corner of the room .
' do you see that ? it be the beginning of a new business we be undertake .
the business be to be a Productive Association ... '
Constantine hardly listen .
he keep glance at his brother 's sickly , consumptive face , and feel more and more sorry for he , nor could he force himself to pay attention to what Nicholas be tell he about the Association .
he realize that this Association be merely an anchor to save his brother from self - contempt .
Nicholas Levin continue speak :
' you know that capitalism oppress the worker . our workman the peasant bear the whole burden of labour , but be so place that , work as they may , they can not escape from their degrading condition .
all the profit on their labour , by which they might better their condition , give themselves some leisure , and consequently gain some education , all this surplus value be take away by the capitalist .
and our society have so shape itself that the more the people work the rich the merchant and landowner will become , while the people will remain beast of burden for ever .
and this system must be change , ' he conclude , with an inquire look at his brother .
' yes , of course , ' say Constantine , look intently at the hectic flush which have appear on his brother 's face below its prominent cheek bone .
' and so we be start a Locksmiths ' Association , in which all the product and the profit and , above all , the instrument of production will be common property . '
' where will the business be ? ' ask Constantine .
' in the village of Vozdrema , Kazan Government . '
' why in a village ?
it seem to I there be plenty of work to do in the country as it be .
why start a Locksmiths ' association there ? '
' because the peasant be still just as much slave as they use to be , and that be why you and Sergius Ivanich do not like it when anyone wish to deliver they from their slavery , ' reply Nicholas Levin , irritate by Constantine 's objection .
Constantine sigh and at the same time look round the room which be dismal and dirty .
the sigh seem to irritate Nicholas still more .
' I know your aristocratic outlook and Sergius Ivanich 's .
I know that he use all the power of his mind to justify the exist evil . '
' but why talk about Sergius Ivanich ? ' say Levin with a smile .
' Sergius Ivanich ?
this be why ! ' suddenly shout Nicholas at the mention of the name . ' this be why .
but what be the good of talk ?
one thing only ...
why have you come here ?
you despise it , well , that be all right – then go away . go , go in God 's name ! ' he exclaim , rise from his chair .
' I do not despise it at all , ' Constantine reply meekly . ' I do not even dispute it . '
meanwhile Mary Nikolavna have come back .
Nicholas give she an angry look .
she hurry up to he and say something in a whisper .
' I be not well and have grow irritable , ' say Nicholas , breathe heavily and quiet down . ' and you talk to I about Sergius Ivanich and his article .
it be such rubbish , such humbug , such self - deception .
what can a man write about justice , who do not understand it ? '
' have you read his article ? ' he say , turn to Kritsky again , sit down to the table and clear away from it a heap of half - fill cigarette to make room .
' I have not read it , ' say Kritsky morosely , evidently not wish to join in the conversation .
' why not ? ' irritably answer Nicholas , still address Kritsky .
' because I consider it unnecessary to waste time on it . '
' what do you mean ? may I ask how you know it would waste your time ?
that article be incomprehensible to many ; I mean it be above they .
but it be a different matter with I . I see through his thought , and therefore know why it be weak . '
every one remain silent .
Kritsky rise and take up his hat .
' do not you want any supper ?
well , good - bye .
come to - morrow and bring the locksmith . '
as soon as Kritsky have go out , Nicholas smile and wink .
' he also be not much good , ' he remark . ' I can see ... '
but at that moment Kritsky call he from outside the door .
' what do you want now ? ' say Nicholas and go out into the passage .
left alone with Mary Nikolavna , Levin speak to she .
' have you be long with my brother ? ' he ask .
' yes , it be the second year now .
his health be very bad , he drink too much , ' she say .
' really – what do he drink ? '
' he drink vodka , and it be bad for he . '
' much vodka ? ' whisper Levin .
' yes , ' she say look timidly toward the door , just as Nicholas return .
' what be you talk about ? ' he ask frown and look from one to the other with frightened eye . ' what be it ? '
' nothing , ' reply Levin in confusion .
' if you do not wish to tell I , do as you please .
only you have no business to talk to she .
she be a street girl , and you be a gentleman , ' he mutter jerk his neck . ' you , I see , have examine and weigh everything here , and regard my error with compassion , ' he continue , again raise his voice .
' Nicholas Dmitrich , Nicholas Dmitrich , ' whisper Mary Nikolavna , again approach he .
' well , all right , all right ! ... and how about supper ?
ah , here it be , ' he say notice a waiter who be bring in a tray .
' here , here , put it down here , ' he say crossly , and at once pour out a wineglass full of vodka and drink it greedily . ' have a drink , will you ? ' he say to his brother , brighten up at once .
' well , we 've have enough of Sergius Ivanich .
I be glad to see you , anyhow . whatever one may say , after all , we be not stranger .
come , have a drink .
tell I what you be do , ' he continue , greedily chew a crust of bread and fill himself another glass . ' how be you get on ? '
' I be live alone in the country , as I do before , and I look after the farming , ' answer Constantine , observe with horror how greedily his brother eat and drink , and try not to let it be see that he notice it .
' why do not you get marry ? '
' I have not the chance , ' reply Constantine blushing .
' why not ?
for I all that be over .
I have spoil my life .
I have say , and still say , that if I have be give my share of the property when I want it , everything would have be different . '
Constantine hasten to change the subject .
' do you know that your Vanyusha be now a clerk in my office at Pokrovsk ? ' he say .
Nicholas jerk his head and grow thoughtful .
' yes , tell I what be happen in Pokrovsk be the house still stand , and the birch tree , and our schoolroom ?
and be Philip the gardener really still live ?
how well I remember the garden - house and the sofa ! ...
mind , do not change anything in the house , but get marry soon and set thing go again as they use to be .
then I will come to you if you have a good wife . '
' come to I at once , ' say Levin . ' how well we might settle down there ! '
' I would come if I be sure I should not find Sergius Ivanich there . '
' you will not find he there .
I live quite apart from he . '
' still , say what you will , you must choose between he and I , ' say Nicholas with a timid look at his brother .
his timidity touch Constantine .
' if you want my full confession about it , I will tell you that I take no side in your quarrel with Sergius Ivanich .
you be both to blame : you more in external matter and he more in essential one . '
' ah , ah !
then you have grasp it , you have grasp it ? ' joyfully exclaim Nicholas .
' but personally , if you care to know it , I value your friendship more because ... '
' why , why ? '
Constantine could not tell he that it be because Nicholas be unfortunate and need friendship .
but Nicholas understand that he mean just that , and frown , again take hold of the vodka bottle .
' enough , Nicholas Dmitrich ! ' say Mary Nikolavna , stretch out her plump arm with its bare wrist to take the bottle .
' let go !
leave I alone !
I will thrash you ! ' shout he .
Mary Nikolavna give a mild , kindly smile , which evoke one from Nicholas , and she take away the bottle .
' do you think she do not understand ? ' say Nicholas . ' she understand it all well than any of we .
there really be something good and sweet about she . '
' you be never in Moscow before ? ' Constantine ask very politely , just in order to say something .
' do not speak to she in that way .
it frighten she .
no one but the magistrate , when she be try for an attempt to escape from the house of ill fame , ever speak to she so politely ... oh heaven , how senseless everything be in this world ! ' he suddenly exclaim .
and he begin to relate all his encounter with these new institution .
Constantine Levin listen to he , and the condemnation of the social institution , which he share with he and have often express , be unpleasant to he when he hear it from his brother 's lip .
' we shall understand it well in the next world , ' he say playfully .
' in the next world ?
ah , I do dislike that next world , ' say Nicholas , fix his wild , frightened eye on his brother 's face . ' one would think that to leave all these abomination , these muddle ( one 's own and other people 's ) , would be good , yet I fear death – I fear it terribly . '
he shudder . ' do drink something .
would you like some champagne ?
or let we go out somewhere or other .
let we go to the Gipsies ! do you know I have become fond of the gipsy and the russian folk - song ? '
his speech begin to grow confused and he jump from one subject to another .
with Masha 's help Constantine succeed in persuade he not to go out anywhere , and get he into bed quite tipsy .
Masha promise to write to Constantine in case of need , and to try to persuade Nicholas to go and live with he .
NEXT MORNING CONSTANTINE LEVIN LEFT MOSCOW and toward evening he reach home .
on his way back in the train he talk with his fellow - passenger about politic and the new railway , and feel oppress , just as in Moscow , by the confusion of the view express , by discontent with himself and a vague sense of shame . but when he get out of the train at his station and by the dim light from the station window see his one - eyed coachman , Ignat , with his coat - collar turn up , and his sledge with its carpet - line back , his horse with their tie - up tail , and the harness with its ring and tassel , and when Ignat , while still put the luggage into the sledge , begin tell he the village news : how the contractor have come , and Pava have calve , – Levin feel that the confusion be begin to clear away and his shame and self - dissatisfaction to pass .
he feel this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horse ; but when he have put on the sheepskin coat that have be bring for he and , well wrap up , have seat himself in the sledge and start homeward , turn over in his mind the order he would give about the work on the estate , and as he watch the side horse ( once a saddle - horse that have be overridden , a spirited animal from the Don ) , he see what have befall he in quite a different light .
he feel that he be himself and do not wish to be anyone else .
he only wish now to be well than he have be formerly .
first of all he decide that he would no long hope for the exceptional happiness which marriage be to have give he , and consequently he would not underrate the present as he have do .
secondly , he would never again allow himself to be carry away by passion , the repulsive memory of which have so torment he when he be make up his mind to propose .
then , remember his brother Nicholas , he determine that he would never allow himself to forget he again , but would watch over he , keep he in sight , and be ready to help when thing go hard with he .
and he feel that that would be soon .
then his brother 's talk about communism , which he have take lightly at the time , now make he think .
he consider an entire change of economic condition nonsense ; but he have always feel the injustice of his superfluity compare with the peasant 's poverty , and now decide , in order to feel himself quite justified , that though he have always work hard and live simply , he would in future work still more and allow himself still less luxury .
and it all seem to he so easy to carry out that he be in a pleasant reverie the whole way home , and it be with cheerful hope for a new and well life that he reach his house toward nine o'clock in the evening .
a light fall on the snow - cover space in front of the house from the window of the room of his old nurse Agatha Mikhaylovna , who now act as his housekeeper .
she have not yet go to bed , and Kuzma , whom she have rouse , come run out barefoot and still half - asleep into the porch .
Laska , a setter bitch , run out too , almost throw Kuzma off his foot , and whine and rub herself against Levin 's knee , jump up and wish but not dare to put her front paw on his chest .
' you have soon come back , sir , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna .
' I be home - sick , Agatha Mikhaylovna .
visiting be all very well , but " there be no place like home,"- ' he reply , and go into his study .
a candle just bring in gradually light up the study and its familiar detail become visible : the stag 's horn , the book shelf , the look - glass , the hot - air aperture of the stove with its brass lid , which have long be in need of repair , his father 's couch , the large table on which be an open volume , a broken ash - tray , and an exercise - book in his handwriting .
when he see all this , he be overcome by a momentary doubt of the possibility of start the new life of which he have be dream on his way .
all these trace of his old life seem to seize hold of he and say , ' no , you will not escape we and will not be different , but will remain such as you have be : full of doubt ; full of dissatisfaction with yourself , and of vain attempt at improvement follow by failure , and continual hope of the happiness which have escape you and be impossible for you . '
that be what the thing say , but another voice within his soul be say that one must not submit to the past and that one can do anything with oneself .
and obey the latter voice he go to the corner where two thirty - six pound dumb - bell lay and begin do gymnastic exercise with they to invigorate himself .
he hear a creaking of step at the door and hurriedly put down the dumb - bell .
his steward enter and say that , ' the Lord be thank , ' everything be all right , but that the buckwheat have burn in the new drying kiln .
this news irritate Levin .
the new kiln have be build and partly invent by he .
the steward have always be against the new kiln , and now proclaim with suppress triumph that the buckwheat have got burn .
Levin feel quite certain that if it have be burn it be only because the precaution about which he have give instruction over and over again have be neglect .
he be vex , and he reprimand the steward .
but the steward have one important and pleasant event to report . Pava , his good and most valuable cow , buy at the cattle - show , have calve .
' Kuzma , bring I my sheep - skin .
and you tell they to bring a lantern . I will go and have a look at she , ' he say to the steward .
the shed where the most valuable cattle be keep be just behind the house .
cross the yard past the heap of snow by the lilac bush , he reach the shed .
there be a warm steaming smell of manure when the frozen door open , and the cow , astonish at the unaccustomed light of the lantern , begin move on their clean straw .
Levin see the broad smooth black - mottled back of a dutch cow .
the bull , Berkut , with a ring through his nose , be lie down , and almost rise up , but change his mind and only snort a couple of time as they pass by . the red beauty Pava , enormous as a hippopotamus , turn she back ,
hide her calf from the newcomer and sniff at it . Levin enter the stall and examine Pava , who , become excited , be about to low , but quiet down when Levin move the calf toward she , and sigh heavily begin lick it with her rough tongue .
the calf fumble about , push its nose under its mother 's belly and swinge its little tail .
' show a light here , Theodore , here , ' say Levin , examine the calf .
' like its mother , ' he say , ' although the colour be its father 's ; very fine , big - boned and deep - flank .
Vasily Fedorich , be not she fine ? ' he say , turn to the steward , and quite forgive he for the buckwheat under the influence of his satisfaction about the calf .
' whom could she take after , not to be good ?
Simon the contractor , come the day after you leave .
we shall have to employ he , Constantine Dmitrich , ' say the steward . ' I tell you about the machine . '
this one question lead Levin back to all the detail of his farming , which be on a large and elaborate scale . he go straight from the cow - shed to the office , and after talk thing over with the steward and with Simon the contractor , he return to the house and go directly upstairs to the drawing - room .
it be a large OLD - FASHIONED HOUSE , and though only Levin be live in it , he use and heat the whole of it .
he know this to be foolish and even wrong , and contrary to his new plan , but this house be a whole world to Levin .
it be the world in which his father and mother have live and die .
they have live a life which appear to he ideally perfect , and which he have dream of renew with a wife and family of his own .
Levin could scarcely remember his mother .
his conception of she be to he a sacred memory , and in his imagination his future wife be to be a repetition of the enchanting and holy ideal of womanhood that his mother have be .
he could not imagine the love of woman without marriage , and even picture to himself a family first and then the woman who would give he the family .
his view on marriage therefore do not resemble those of most of his acquaintance , for whom marriage be only one of many social affair ; for Levin it be the chief thing in life , on which the whole happiness of life depend .
and now he have to renounce it .
when he have settle in the arm - chair in the little drawing room where he always have his tea , and Agatha Mikhaylovna have bring it in for he and have sit down at the window with her usual remark , ' I will sit down sir ! ' he feel that , strange to say , he have not really forget his dream and that he could not live without they .
with she , or with another , they would come true .
he read his book , and follow what he read , stop now and then to listen to Agatha Mikhaylovna , who chatter indefatigably ; and at the same time various picture of farming and future family life arise disconnectedly in his mind .
he feel that in the depth of his soul something be settle down , adjust and compose itself .
he listen to Agatha Mikhaylovna 's talk of how Prokhor have forget the Lord , be spend on drink the money Levin have give he to buy a horse with , and have beat his wife nearly to death ; he listen and read , and remember the whole sequence of thought raise by what he be read .
it be a book of Tyndall 's on heat .
he recall his disapproval of Tyndall 's self - conceit concern the cleverness of his experiment and his lack of a philosophic outlook .
and suddenly the joyous thought come uppermost : ' in two year ' time I shall have two dutch cow in my herd and Pava herself may still be alive ; there will be twelve cow by Berkut , and these three to crown all – splendid ! '
he return to his book .
' well , let we grant that electricity and heat be one and the same , but can we substitute the one quantity for the other in solve an equation ?
then what of it ?
the connection between all the force of nature can be feel instinctively without all that ...
it will be especially good when Pava 's calf be already a red - mottled cow , and the whole herd in which these three will be ... !
splendid !
to go out with my wife and the visitor and meet the herd ...
my wife will say : " we , Constantine and I , rear this calf like a baby . "
" how can you be interested in these thing ? " the visitor will ask .
" all that interest he interest I .. "
but who be she ? ' and he remember what have happen in Moscow .
' well , what be to be do ? ...
it be not my fault .
but now everything will be on new line .
it be nonsense to say that life will prevent it , that the past prevent it .
I must struggle to live a well , a far well , life . '
he lift his head and ponder .
Old Laska , who have not yet quite digest her joy at her master 's return and have run out to bark in the yard , now come back , bring a smell of fresh air with she into the room and , wag her tail , she approach he and put her head under his hand whine plaintively , ask to be pat .
' she all but speak , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna .
' she be only a dog , but she understand that her master have come back feel depressed . '
' why depressed ? '
' oh , do not I see ?
I ought to understand gentlefolk by this time .
I have grow up among they from a child .
never mind , my dear , as long as you have good health and a clean conscience ! '
Levin look at she intently , surprise that she know so well what be in his mind .
' shall I bring you a little more tea ? ' she say and go out with his cup .
Laska keep on push her head under his hand .
he pat she a little , and she curl herself up at his foot with her head on her outstretched hind paw .
and to show that all be now well and satisfactory , she slightly open her mouth , smack her sticky lip , and draw they more closely over her old tooth lie still in blissful peace .
Levin attentively watch this last movement of hers .
' and it be just the same with I ! ' he say to himself . ' it be just the same with I .
what do it matter ...
all be well . '
early in the morning after the ball Anna send a telegram to her husband to say that she be leave Moscow that same evening .
' really I must , I must go , ' she say , explain her alter plan to her sister - in - law in a tone suggest that she have suddenly remember so many thing she have to do that it be not even possible to enumerate they all . ' really I have well go to - day . '
Stephen Oblonsky be not dine at home , but promise to be back at seven to see his sister off .
Kitty also have not come , but have send a note to say that she have a headache .
Dolly and Anna dine alone with the child and their english governess .
whether it be that child be inconstant or that they be sensitive and feel that Anna be not the same person to - day as she have be that other day when they have be so fond of she , and that she no long take any interest in they , at any rate they suddenly leave off play with their aunt and love she , and be not at all concerned about her leaving .
Anna spend the whole morning prepare for her departure : write note to her Moscow acquaintance , make up account , and packing .
it seem to Dolly that Anna be not at ease in her mind , but in a state of anxiety that Dolly know well from her own experience , a state which do not come on without a cause , but generally hide dissatisfaction with oneself .
after dinner Anna go to her room to dress and Dolly follow she .
' how strange you be to - day ! ' say dolly
' I ? do you think so ?
I be not strange , but wicked .
it sometimes happen to I .
I feel ready to cry .
it be very silly , but it will pass , ' say Anna hurriedly , and she bend her flushed face over the tiny bag into which she be pack a night - cap and some lawn handkerchief .
her eye shine peculiarly and keep fill with tear . ' I do not want to leave Petersburg , and now I do not want to leave here . '
' you come here and do a good action , ' say Dolly , scrutinize she attentively .
Anna look at she with her eye wet with tear .
' do not say that , Dolly .
I have do and could do nothing .
I often wonder why people conspire to spoil I .
what have I do and what could I do ?
there be enough love in your heart to forgive ... '
' but for you , God only know what would have happen !
how lucky you be , Anna , ' say Dolly . ' everything in your soul be clear and good . '
' every one have a skeleton in their cupboard , as the English say . '
' what skeleton have you ?
everything about you be so clear . '
' I have one ! ' say Anna , and unexpectedly follow her tear , a sly , humorous smile pucker her lip .
' well , at least your skeleton be a funny one and not a dismal one , ' said dolly smile . ' no , it be a dismal one . do you know why I be go to - day and not to - morrow ?
this be a confession of something that oppress I , and I want to make it to you , ' say Anna , determinedly throw herself back in an arm - chair and look straight into Dolly 's eye .
and to her surprise Dolly see that Anna be blush to her ear and to the curly black lock on her neck .
' do you know , ' continue Anna , ' why Kitty do not come to dinner ?
she be jealous of I .
I have spoil ... I mean I be the cause of the ball be a torture instead of a pleasure to she .
but really , really I be not to blame , or only a very little , ' she say , drawl out the word ' very ' in a high - pitch voice .
' oh , how like Steve you say that , ' remark dolly laugh .
Anna be annoy .
' oh no , no , I be not Steve , ' she say frown . ' the reason I have tell you be that I do not even for a moment allow myself to distrust myself . '
but at the moment when she utter these word she know they be untrue : she not only distrust herself but be agitate by the thought of Vronsky , and be leave soon than she have intend only that she might not meet he again .
' yes , Steve tell I that you dance the mazurka with he , and that he ... '
' you can not think how queerly it come about .
I only think of arrange the match , and – suddenly it all come out quite differently ...
perhaps against my own will I ... '
she blush and stop .
' oh , they feel that at once ! ' say Dolly .
' but I should be in despair if there be anything serious in it on his side , ' Anna interrupt she . ' I be sure that it will all be forget , and Kitty will no long hate I . '
' well , do you know , Anna , to tell you the truth , I be not very anxious that Kitty should marry he : it be much well that it should come to nothing if he , Vronsky , be capable of fall in love with you in a day . '
how stupid it would be , ' say Anna , and again a deep flush of pleasure suffuse her face at hear the thought that occupy her mind express in word . ' so I be go away having make an enemy of Kitty , of whom I be so fond .
oh , what a darling she be !
but you will put it right ?
eh , Dolly ? '
dolly could hardly repress a smile .
she be fond of Anna , but it be pleasant to find that she too have a weakness .
' an enemy ?
that be impossible . '
' I should so like you all to love I as I love you and now I love you still more , ' say Anna with tear in her eye . ' oh dear , how silly I be to - day . '
she dab her face with her handkerchief , and begin to dress .
Oblonsky , smell of wine and cigar , with his face red and happy , come in late , just as she be about to start .
Anna 's emotion have spread to Dolly , who as she embrace her sister - in - law for the last time whisper :
' remember that I love and always shall love you as my good friend ! '
' I do not know why you should , ' say Anna , kiss she and try to hide her tear .
' you understand and understand I .
good - bye , my sweet one ! '
' well , that be ALI , OVER , thank Heaven ! ' be Anna 's first thought when she have take leave of her brother , who stand to the last moment obstruct the entrance to the railway carriage .
she sit down beside her maid Annushka , and peer round the dimly - light sleep compartment .
' thank Heaven , to - morrow I shall see Serezha and Alexis Alexandrovich again , and my good accustom life will go on as of old . '
with the same preoccupy mind she have have all that day , Anna prepare with pleasure and great deliberation for the journey . with her deft little hand she unlock her red bag , take out a small pillow which she place on her knee , and lock the bag again ; then she carefully wrap up her foot and sit down comfortably .
an invalid lady be already go to bed .
two other lady begin talk to Anna . one , a fat old woman , while wrap up her foot , remark upon the heating of the carriage .
Anna say a few word in answer , but not foresee anything interesting from the conversation ask her maid to get out her reading - lamp , fix it to the arm of her seat , and take a paper - knife and an english novel from her handbag .
at first she could not read .
for a while the bustle of people move about disturbed she , and when the train have finally start it be impossible not to listen to the noise , then there be the snow , beat against the window on she left , to which it stick , and the sight of the guard , who pass through the carriage closely wrap up and cover with snow on one side ; also the conversation about the awful snow - storm which be rage outside distract her attention .
and so it go on and on : the same jolting and knock , the same beating of the snow on the windowpane , the same rapid change from steam heat to cold , and back again to heat , the gleam of the same face through the semidarkness , and the same voice , – but at last Anna begin to read and to follow what she read .
Annushka be already doze , her broad hand , with a hole in one of the glove , hold the red bag on her lap .
Anna read and understand , but it be unpleasant to read , that be to say , to follow the reflection of other people 's life .
she be too eager to live herself .
when she read how the heroine of the novel nurse a sick man , she want to move about the sick - room with noiseless footstep ; when she read of a member of Parliament make a speech , she wish to make that speech ; when she read how Lady Mary ride to hound , tease her sister - in - law , and astonish everybody by her boldness – she want to do it herself .
but there be nothing to be do , so she force herself to read , while her little hand toy with the smooth paper - knife .
the hero of the novel have nearly attain to his english happiness of a baronetcy and an estate , and Anna want to go to the estate with he , when she suddenly feel that he must have be ashamed , and that she be ashamed of the same thing , – but what be he ashamed of ?
' what be I ashamed of ? ' she ask herself with indignant surprise .
she put down her book , lean back , and clasp the paper - knife tightly in both hand .
there be nothing to be ashamed of .
she call up all her Moscow memory .
they be all good and pleasant .
she recall the ball and Vronsky and his humble , enamoured gaze , and their relation with one another ; there be nothing to be ashamed of .
and yet at that very point of her recollection when she remember Vronsky , the feeling of shame grow strong and some inner voice seem to say to she , ' warm , very warm , burning ! '
' well , what of it ? ' she finally say to herself with decision , change her position on the seat . ' what do it signify ?
be I afraid to look straight at it ?
what of it ?
just as if there exist , or could exist , between I and this officer - lad any relation differ from those with other acquaintance . '
she smile disdainfully and again take up her book ; but now she absolutely could not understand what she be read .
she pass her paper - knife over the windowpane , then press its cold smooth surface against her cheek and almost laugh aloud , suddenly overcome with unreasoning joy .
she feel that her nerve be be stretch like string draw tight and tight round peg .
she feel her eye open wider , her finger and toe nervously move , and something inside she stop her breath , and all the form and sound in the sway semi - darkness around strike she with unusual vividness .
momentary doubt keep occur in her mind as to whether the train be move forwards or backwards or stand still .
be it Annushka who be sit beside she , or a stranger ?
' and be I here , myself ?
be I myself or another ? '
she be afraid of give way to these delirious thought .
something seem to draw she to they , but she have the power to give way to they or to resist .
to get over it she rise , throw off her wrap , and take off the cape of her coat .
she come to her sense for a moment , and know that the lean peasant in the long nankin coat with a button miss who have come into the compartment be the carriage stoker and be look at the thermometer , and that the wind and snow rush in when he open the door ; but afterwards everything again become confused ...
the peasant in the long coat start gnaw at something on the wall ; the old woman begin stretch her leg the whole length of the carriage , which she fill with a black cloud ; then something squeak and clatter in a dreadful manner , as if some one be be tear to piece ; then a blind red light appear , and at last everything be hide by a wall .
Anna feel as if she have fall through the floor .
but all this do not seem dreadful , but amusing .
the voice of a man wrap up and cover with snow shout something just above her ear .
she rise and come to herself , understand that they have stop at a station and that this be the guard .
she ask Annushka to give she the cape she have remove and a shawl , and put they on she move to the door .
' be you go out ? ' ask Annushka .
' yes , I want a breath of air .
it be so hot in here . '
she open the carriage door .
the snow and wind rush toward she and have a tussle with she for the door .
and this too strike she as amusing .
she go out .
the wind seem only to have wait for she : it whistle merrily and try to seize and carry she off , but she hold on to the cold door - post and hold down her shawl , then step on to the platform she move away from the carriage .
the wind blow boisterously into the little porch of the carriage , but on the platform , shelter by the train , it be quiet .
with enjoyment she draw in full breath of the snowy , frosty air as she stand beside her carriage look round at the platform and the light station .
a blustering STORM be rush and whistle between the wheel of the train and round the pillar and the corner of the station .
the railway carriage , the pillar , the people , and everything that could be see , be cover on one side with snow , and that covering become thick and thick .
a momentary lull would be follow by such a terrific gust that it seem hardly possible to stand against it .
yet people , merrily exchange remark , run over the creak board of the platform , and the big station door be constantly be open and shut .
the shadow of a man stoop slip past her foot and she hear a hammer strike the carriage wheel .
' let I have the telegram ! ' come an angry voice from the other side out of the stormy darkness .
' here , please , no . 28 ! ' cry other voice , while many people muffle up and cover with snow run hither and thither .
two gentleman pass she with glow cigarette between their lip .
she take another deep breath to get her fill of fresh air and have already draw her hand out of her muff to take hold of the handrail and get into the train when another man wear a military overcoat come close between she and the waver light of the lamp .
she turn round , and instantly recognize Vronsky .
with his hand in salute , he bow and ask if she want anything and whether he could be of any service to she .
for some time she look into his face without answering , and , though he stand in the shade she notice , or think she notice , the expression of his face and eye .
it be the same expression of respectful ecstasy that have so affect she the night before .
she have assure herself more than once during those last few day , and again a moment ago , that Vronsky in relation to she be only one of the hundred of everlastingly identical young man she meet everywhere , and that she would never allow herself to give he a thought ; yet now , at the first moment of see he again , she be seize by a feeling of joyful pride .
there be no need for she to ask he why he be there .
she know as well as if he have tell she , that he be there in order to be where she be .
' I do not know that you be go too .
why be you go ? ' she ask , drop the hand with which she be about to take hold of the handrail .
her face beam with a joy and animation she could not repress .
' why be I go ? ' he repeat , look straight into her eye . ' you know that I be go in order to be where you be , ' say he . ' I can not do otherwise . '
at that moment the wind , as if it have master all obstacle , scatter the snow from the carriage roof and set a loose sheet of iron clattering , and in front the deep whistle of the engine howl mournfully and dismally .
the awfulness of the storm appear still more beautiful to she now .
he have say just what , her soul desire but her reason dread .
she do not reply and he see a struggle in her face .
' forgive I if my word displease you , ' he say humbly .
he speak courteously and respectfully , but so firmly and stubbornly that she be long unable to reply .
' what you be say be wrong , and if you be a good man , I beg you to forget it , as I will forget it , ' she say at last .
' not a word , not a movement of yours will I ever forget , nor can I ... '
' enough , enough ! ' she cry , vainly try to give a severe expression to her face , into which he be gaze eagerly .
she take hold of the cold handrail , ascend the step , and quickly enter the little lobby lead into the carriage .
but in that little lobby she stop , go over in her imagination what have just take place .
though she could remember neither his nor her own word , she instinctively feel that that momentary conversation have draw they terribly near to one another , and this both frighten she and make she happy .
after stand still for a few second she go into the carriage and sit down .
the overwrought condition which torment she before not only return again , but grow bad and reach such a degree that she fear every moment that something within she would give way under the intolerable strain .
she do not sleep at all that night , but the strain and the vision which fill her imagination have nothing unpleasant or dismal about they ; on the contrary they seem joyful , glowing , and stimulating .
toward morning Anna , while still sit up , fall into a doze ; when she wake it be already light and the train be approach Petersburg .
at once thought of home , her husband , her son , and the care of the come day and of those that would follow , beset she .
when the train stop at the Petersburg terminus and she get out , the first face she notice be that of her husband .
' great heaven ! what have happen to his ear ? ' she think , gaze at his cold and commanding figure , and especially at the gristly ear which now so strike she , press as they do against the rim of his hat .
when he see she , he come toward she with his customary ironical smile and look straight at she with his large tired eye .
an unpleasant feeling weigh on her heart when she feel his fixed and weary gaze , as if she have expect to find he different .
she be particularly strike by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself which she experience when she meet he .
it be that ordinary well - know feeling , as if she be dissemble , which she experience in regard to her husband , but formerly she have not notice it , while now she be clearly and painfully conscious of it .
' yes , as you see . here be a devoted husband ; devote as in the first year of married life , – consume by desire to see you , ' say he in his slow , high - pitch voice and in the tone in which he always address she , a tone which ridicule those who could use such word in earnest .
' be Serezha well ? ' she ask .
' and be this all the reward I get , ' he say , ' for my ardour ?
he be quite well , quite well ... '
VRONSKY do not even try to sleep that night .
he sit in his place , his eye stare straight before he , not observe the people who go in or out , and if previously his appearance of imperturbable calm have strike and annoy those who do not know he , he now seem to they even proud and more self - confident .
he look at people as if they be inanimate thing .
a nervous young man , a Law Court official , who sit opposite , hate he for that look .
the young man repeatedly light his cigarette at Vronsky 's , talk to he , and even jostle he to prove that he be not a thing but a man ; yet Vronsky still look at he as at a street lamp , and the young man make grimace , feel that he be lose self - control under the stress of this refusal to regard he as human .
Vronsky neither see nor hear anyone .
he feel himself a king , not because he believe that he have make an impression on Anna – he do not yet believe that – but because the impression she have make on he fill he with happiness and pride .
what would come of it all he do not know and do not even consider .
he feel that all his power , hitherto dissipate and scatter , be now concentrate and direct with terrible energy toward one blissful aim .
this make he happy .
he know only that he have tell she the truth : that he would go where she go , that all the happiness of life and the only meaning of life for he now be in see and hear she .
when he have get out of the train at Bologoe station to drink a glass of seltzer water and have see Anna , he have involuntarily at once tell she just what he be think about it .
he be glad he have say it to she , and that she now know it and be think about it .
he do not sleep at all that night .
when he return to the train , he keep recall all the position in which he have see she , and all her word ; and in his imagination , cause his heart to stand still , float picture of a possible future .
when he get out of the train at Petersburg he feel , despite his sleepless night , as fresh and animate as after a cold bath .
he stop outside the carriage , wait till she appear .
' I shall see she again , ' he think and smile involuntarily . ' I shall see she walk , her face ... she will say something , turn her head , look at I , perhaps even smile . '
but before see she he see her husband , whom the station - master be respectfully conduct through the crowd .
' dear I ! the husband ! '
only now do Vronsky for the first time clearly realize that the husband be connect with she .
he know she have a husband , but have not believe in his existence , and only fully believe in he when he see he there : his head and shoulder , and the black trouser contain his leg , and especially when he see that husband with an air of ownership quietly take her hand .
when he see Karenin , with his fresh Petersburg face , his sternly self - confident figure , his round hat and his slightly rounded back , Vronsky believe in his existence , and have such a disagreeable sensation as a man torture by thirst might feel on reach a spring and find a dog , sheep , or pig in it , drink the water and make it muddy .
Karenin 's gait , the swinging of his thigh , and his wide short foot , particularly offend Vronsky , who acknowledge only his own unquestionable right to love Anna .
but she be still the same , and the sight of she still affect he physically , exhilarate and stimulate he and fill he with joy .
he order his german valet , who have run up from a second - class carriage , to get his luggage and take it home , and he himself go up to she .
he see the husband and wife meet , and with the penetration of a lover he notice the sign of slight embarrassment when she speak to her husband .
' no , she do not and can not love he , ' he decide mentally .
while he be approach she from behind he observe with joy that she become aware of his approach and be about to turn but , on recognize he , again address her husband .
' do you have a good night ? ' he inquire , bow toward they both , and leave it to Karenin to take the greeting as mean for himself and to recognize he , or not , as he please .
' yes , quite comfortable , thank you , ' she reply .
her face seem tired and have none of that play which show now in a smile and now in the animation of her eye ; but just for an instant as she look at he he see a gleam in her eye and , though the spark be at once extinguish , that one instant make he happy .
she glance at her husband to see whether he know Vronsky .
Karenin look at he with displeasure , absently try to recall who he might be .
Vronsky 's calm self - confidence strike like a scythe on a stone against the cold self - confidence of Karenin .
' Count Vronsky , ' say Anna .
' ah ! I believe we have meet before , ' say Karenin extend his hand with indifference .
' you travel there with the mother and come back with the son , ' he say , utter every word distinctly as though it be something valuable he be give away . ' I suppose you be return from furlough ? ' he remark ; and without wait for an answer say to his wife in his playful manner : ' well , be many tear shed in Moscow over the parting ? '
by address himself thus to his wife he convey to Vronsky his wish to be alone with she , and turn to Vronsky he touch his hat . but Vronsky , address Anna , say :
' I hope to have the honour of call on you . '
Karenin glance at he with his weary eye .
' I shall be very pleased , ' he say coldly . ' we be at home on Mondays . ' then having finally dismiss Vronsky he say to his wife in his usual bantering tone : ' what a good thing it be that I have just half an hour to spare to meet you and be able to show my devotion ! '
' you insist too much on your devotion , for I to value it greatly , ' she reply in the same playful tone , while she involuntarily listen to the sound of Vronsky 's footstep follow they .
' but what do he matter to I ? ' she ask herself , and begin inquire of her husband how Serezha have get on during her absence .
' oh , splendidly !
Mariette say he be very sweet . but – I be sorry to grieve you ! – he do not fret after you ... like your husband ! ...
but I must thank you once again , my dear , for having make I the present of a day .
our dear samovar will be in ecstasy . '
( he call the celebrated Countess Lydia Ivanovna samovar because she be always get heat and boil over about something . )
' she be ask after you .
and , do you know , if I may advise , you should go and see she to - day .
her heart be always ache about somebody .
at present , in addition to all her other worry , she be concerned about the Oblonskys ' reconciliation . '
Countess Lydia Ivanovna be Anna 's husband 's friend and the centre of that set in Petersburg Society with which Anna , through her husband , be most closely connect .
' but I write to she . '
' yes , but she want the particular .
go and see she my dear , if you be not too tired ...
Kondraty be here with the carriage for you , and I must be off to the Committee .
now I sha not have to dine alone , ' he go on , no long in a bantering manner . ' you can not think how I use ... '
and with a long pressure of her hand and a special kind of smile he help she into the carriage .
the first person to MEET ANNA when she reach home be her son .
he run down the stair to she regardless of his governess 's cry , and with desperate delight call out : ' Mama ! Mama ! '
when he reach she he clung round her neck .
' I tell you it be Mama ! ' he shout to the governess .
' I know ! ' her son , like his father , produce on Anna a feeling akin to disappointment .
her fancy have picture he nice than he be in reality .
she have to come down to reality in order to enjoy he as he be .
but even as he be , he be charming , with his fair curl , blue eye and plump shapely leg in tight - fit stocking .
Anna experience an almost physical pleasure in feel his proximity and his caress , and a moral solace when she meet his simple , trustful , and love gaze and hear his naive question .
she unpack the present which Dolly 's child have send he , and tell he that there be a girl in Moscow whose name be Tanya , who could read and even teach other child .
' and be I bad than she ? ' ask Serezha .
' to I , you be the good in the world . '
' I know , ' he say , smile .
before Anna have time to finish her coffee the Countess Lydia Ivanovna be announce .
the Countess be a tall , stout woman with a sickly sallow complexion and beautiful , dreamy , black eye .
Anna be fond of she , but to - day she seem to see she for the first time with all her defect .
' well , my dear ! do you take the olive branch ? ' ask the Countess Lydia Ivanovna as soon as she enter the room .
' yes , it be all over ; but the whole affair be not as serious as we think , ' Anna reply . ' my sister - in - law be , in general , too impulsive . '
but the Countess , who be interested in everything that do not concern she , have a habit of never listen to what interested she , and she interrupt Anna :
' ah , yes ! there be much sorrow and evil in the world , and to - day I be terribly worried . '
' why ! what be the matter ? ' ask Anna , try to suppress a smile .
' I be get tired of break lance uselessly in the cause of truth , and sometimes I feel quite unstrung .
that Little Sisters ' affair ' ( this be a philanthropic religio - patriotic society ) ' be go splendidly , but to work with those gentleman be impossible , ' continue the Countess Lydia Ivanovna with an ironical air of resignation to fate . ' they take the idea and pervert it , and be now discuss it in such a trivial , petty way !
two or three , your husband among they , understand the full significance of the affair , but the other just drop it .
yesterday I have a letter from Pravdin ... '
Pravdin be a well - know Panslavist who reside abroad . the Countess tell Anna what he have write .
she then go on to tell she of other unpleasantness , and of the underhand opposition to the plan for unite the church , and she go away in a hurry , as she have that afternoon to be at a meeting of another society as well as to attend a slavonic Committee meeting .
' this be all just as it be before , but how be it that I never notice it before ? ' say Anna to herself . ' or be it that she be specially irritated this morning ?
but it be really funny ; her aim be to do good , she be a Christian and yet she be always angry and always have enemy – all on account of Christianity and philanthropy ! '
after the Countess have leave , a friend – a high official 's wife – arrive and give Anna all the Petersburg news .
at three she also leave , promise to come back to dinner .
Karenin be at the Ministry .
Anna , leave alone , spend part of the time before dinner in see her son have his dinner ( he dine apart ) , in put her thing in order , and in reading and answer the note and letter that have accumulate on her table .
the feeling of causeless shame she have feel during the journey , and her agitation , have quite vanish .
in her accustomed condition of life she again feel firm and blameless .
she think with wonder of her state the day before .
' what have happen ?
Vronsky say some silly thing , to which it will be easy to put a stop , and I say what be necessary .
it be unnecessary and impossible to speak of it to my husband .
to speak of it would be to give it an importance that do not belong to it . '
she remember how she have once tell her husband about one of his subordinate who very nearly make she a declaration , and how Karenin have answer that every woman live in Society be liable to such thing , but that he have full confidence in her tact and would never degrade himself and she by be jealous .
' so there be no need to tell he !
besides ; thank Heaven there be nothing to tell ! ' she say to herself .
KARENIN RETURNED from the MINISTRY at four o'clock , but , as often happen , he have no time to go up and see his wife .
he go straight to his study to receive some petitioner and sign a few document bring by his private secretary .
at the karenin ' dinner there be usually about three visitor . this time there come an old lady , a cousin of Karenin 's ; the Director of a Department ; the Director 's wife ; and a young man who have be recommend to Karenin for a post under he .
Anna go into the drawing - room to entertain they .
exactly at five – the bronze clock ( style of Peter I ) have not finish strike – Karenin enter in evening dress with a white tie and two star on his coat , as he have to attend an official meeting directly after dinner .
every moment of his life be fill up and apportion , and in order to find time to perform all the task allot to each day he observe the strict regularity .
' without haste and without rest , ' be his motto .
he enter the room , greet everybody , and quickly sit down , smile at his wife .
' so my solitude have come to an end .
you would not believe how uncomfortable ' – he put special emphasis on the word uncomfortable – ' it be to dine alone ! '
at dinner he speak a little about Moscow affair with his wife , ask with an ironical smile after Stephen Oblonsky ; but for the most part the conversation be general and deal with Petersburg service and social affair .
after dinner he spend half an hour with his guest , and then , having again with a smile press his wife 's hand , go away to the Council .
that evening Anna go neither to see the Princess Betsy Tverskaya , who having hear of Anna 's return have invite she , nor to the theatre , where she have a box for that evening .
her chief reason for not go be that a dress on which she have count be not ready .
altogether , when , after her visitor have leave , Anna busy herself with her toilet , she be much vex .
before go to Moscow , she – be an adept at dress on comparatively little money – leave three dress to be alter .
she want they make up so that they should be unrecognizable , and they be to have be send home three day ago ; but she now find that two be not ready at all , while the third have not be do in the way she wish .
the dressmaker come to explain that it be well as she have do it , and Anna lose her temper to such a degree that she afterwards feel ashamed .
completely to regain her composure , she go to the nursery and spend the evening with her son . she put he to bed herself , make the sign of the cross over he , and tuck he up .
she be glad she have not go out that evening but have spend it so pleasantly at home .
she feel light - hearted and tranquil , and see clearly that what in the train have appear so important have merely be an ordinary and trivial incident of Society life , and that there be no reason for she to feel ashamed , or for anyone to blame she .
she sit down by the fire with an english novel and await her husband .
exactly at half - past nine there be a ring at the front door , and he enter the room .
' here you be at last ! ' she say , hold out her hand to he . he kiss it , and seat himself beside she .
' in general , I see that your journey have be a success , ' say he .
' yes , quite , ' she reply , and relate everything that have happen from the beginning : her journey with the Countess Vronskaya , her arrival , the accident at the railway station .
then she speak of her pity , first for her brother and then for Dolly .
' I do not think that one can excuse such a man , even though he be your brother , ' remark Karenin , severely .
Anna smile .
she know he have say that in order to show that no consideration of kinship could hinder the expression of his sincere opinion .
she know that trait in her husband 's character , know and like it .
' I be glad it have all end satisfactorily and that you be back again , ' he continue . ' but what be they say there about the new Statute I carry in the Council ? '
Anna have hear nothing about the Statute , and feel ashamed that she have so lightly forget what be of such importance to he .
' here , on the contrary , it have make quite a stir , ' he say with a self - satisfied smile .
Anna see that he want to tell she something pleasant to himself about that affair , and by question she lead he on to tell she all about it .
with the same self - satisfied smile he tell she about the ovation he have receive on account of the enactment of that Statute .
' I be very , very pleased .
it show that at last a clear and reasonable view of the matter be begin to be firmly hold among we . '
having finish his second cup of tea and cream and his bread and butter , he rise and go into his study .
' and have you not be out anywhere ? you must have be dull , ' he say .
' oh no ! ' she answer , rise and follow he through the room to his study . ' and what be you read now ? ' she ask .
' I be now read the Duc de Lille 's Poésie des enfer , he reply . ' a very remarkable book . '
Anna smile , as one smile at the weakness of people one love , and slip her hand under his arm walk with he to the study door .
she know his habit , which have become a necessity , of read in the evening .
she know that in spite of his time be almost entirely absorb by the duty of his post , he consider it incumbent on he to follow everything of importance that appear in the world of thought .
she also know that really he be interested in political , philosophic , and theological book , and that art be quite foreign to his nature , yet in spite of this – or rather because of it – he never ignore anything that cause a stir in that sphere but consider it his duty to read everything .
she know that in the sphere of politic , philosophy , and theology Alexis Alexandrovich doubt and search ; but in question of art , poetry , and especially music – which he do not at all understand – he hold most definite and firm opinion .
he like talk of Shakespeare , Raphael and Beethoven , and about the importance of the new school of poetry and music , which in his mind be all classify with very logical exactitude .
' well , God bless you ! ' she say at the door of the study , where a shaded candle and a bottle of water have be place ready for he beside his arm - chair ; ' and I will go and write to they in Moscow . '
he press her hand and again kiss it .
' after all , he be a good man : truthful , kind , and remarkable in his own sphere , ' say Anna to herself when she have return to her room , as if defend he from some one who accuse he and declare it be impossible to love he . ' but why do his ear stick out so ?
or have he have his hair cut ? '
exactly at midnight , when Anna be still sit at her writing - table finish a letter to Dolly , she hear the measured tread of slippered foot , and Karenin enter , freshly wash , his hair brush , and a book under his arm .
' it be time ! it be time ! ' say he with a peculiar smile , go into their bedroom .
' and what right have he to look at he as he do ? ' think Anna , remember how Vronsky have look at Karenin .
when she be undress she go into the bedroom , but on her face not only be there not a trace of that animation which during her stay in Moscow have sparkle in her eye and smile , but on the contrary the fire in she now seem quench or hide somewhere very far away .
chapter XXXIV
when he go to Moscow , Vronsky have leave his large flat on the Morskaya to his friend and favourite comrade , Petritsky .
Petritsky be a young lieutenant , not of very aristocratic birth , and not only not wealthy but heavily in debt , tipsy every evening , and often under arrest for amusing or improper escapade , but popular both with his comrade and superior .
arrive home from the station about noon , Vronsky recognize a hire brougham at the front door .
when he ring the bell , while still outside , he hear man 's laughter , a woman 's lisping voice , and Petritsky shout : ' if it be one of the villain , do not let he in ! '
Vronsky tell the servant not to announce his arrival , and softly enter the first room .
Petritsky 's friend , the Baroness Chilton , her lilac satin dress and pink and white face glisten , and like a canary fill the whole room with her parisian voice , be seat at the round table make coffee .
Petritsky in his great coat , and Captain Kamerovsky in full uniform probably straight from parade , sit on each side of she .
' vronsky !
Bravo ! ' exclaim Petritsky jump up and noisily push back his chair . ' the master himself !
Baroness , some coffee for he out of the new coffee - pot ...
well , this be unexpected !
I hope you be pleased with this ornament to your study , ' he add , point to the Baroness . ' of course , you know one another ? '
' I should think so ! ' reply Vronsky with a merry smile , as he press the Baroness 's small hand . ' of course : quite old friend . '
' you have return from a journey ? ' say the Baroness .
' oh , I will be off home this very moment if I be in the way . '
' you be at home where you be , Baroness , ' say Vronsky . ' how do you do , Kamerovsky ? ' he add , coldly shake hand with the Captain .
' there now ! you never manage to say such pretty thing , ' say the Baroness to Petritsky .
' oh yes ! why not ?
after dinner I will say thing quite as good as that . '
' but after dinner there be no merit in it ! well then , I will give you some coffee ... but have a wash and smarten yourself up , ' say the Baroness , again sit down and carefully turn a small screw of the coffee - pot . ' Pierre , pass I the coffee , ' she say to Petritsky whom , not conceal their relation , she call Pierre ( the French for Peter ) , because of his surname . ' I will put a little more into the pot . '
' you will spoil it ! '
' no , I sha not !
and your wife ? ' the Baroness say suddenly , interrupt Vronsky 's conversation with his comrade . ' we here have be marry you off !
have you bring your wife ? '
' no , Baroness .
a Bohemian I be bear , and a Bohemian I shall die ! '
' so much the well ! so much the well !
give I your hand . '
and the Baroness , instead of release Vronsky , begin tell he her plan for the future , intersperse joke and ask his advice .
' he will not agree to a divorce !
whatever be I to do ? '
( he be her husband . )
' I want to begin an action .
what would you advise ?
Kamerovsky , mind the coffee , it be boil over ! do not you see I be occupy ? ...
I want to bring an action because I need my property .
you see how absurd it be , that because I be suppose to be unfaithful , ' she say contemptuously , ' he wish to have the use of my property . '
Vronsky listen with pleasure to the merry prattle of the pretty young woman , agree with what she say , and half in fun give she advice ; in a word he immediately take up his habitual manner with woman of her kind .
in his Petersburg world people be divide into two quite opposite sort .
one – the inferior sort : the paltry , stupid , and , above all , ridiculous people who believe that a husband should live with the one wife to whom he be married , that a maiden should be pure , a woman modest , and a man , manly , self - control and firm ; that one should bring up one 's child to earn their living , should pay one 's debt , and other nonsense of that kind .
these be the old - fashioned and ridiculous people .
but there be another sort of people : the real people to which all his set belong , who have above all to be well - breed , generous , bold , gay , and to abandon themselves unblushingly to all their passion and laugh at everything else .
just for a moment Vronsky be stagger ; having bring back from Moscow the impression of a totally different world , but immediately , as though he have put his foot into an old slipper , he re - enter his former gay and pleasant world .
the coffee never got make , but boil over and splash everybody , effect just what be require : that is , it give an excuse for much noise and laughter , stain the valuable carpet and the Baroness 's dress .
' now good - bye , or you will never get wash , and on my conscience will lie the great crime of a gentleman – want of cleanliness ...
so you advise I to put a knife to his throat ? '
' most certainly , and hold it so that your hand will be near his lip .
he will kiss the hand and all will end well ! ' say Vronsky .
' then we meet at the French Theatre to - night ? ' and , her dress rustling , she vanish .
Kamerovsky rise also , and , without wait for he to go , Vronsky shake hand with he and go to his dressing - room .
while he be wash , Petritsky in a few word describe his own position in so far as it have change since Vronsky go away .
he have no money at all .
his father have say he would not give he any and would not pay his debt .
his tailor and another creditor be threaten he with arrest .
his C.O. have announce to he that if these scandal continue he ( Petritsky ) would have to resign .
he be sick to death of the Baroness , especially because she be always want to give he money ; but there be another – he would let Vronsky see she – who be charming , wonderful , of severely oriental type , in the style of " the Slave Rebecca , " you know ! '
he have also have a quarrel with Berkashev , who wish to send his second , but of course nothing would come of it .
but , in general , everything be first - rate and extremely jolly ; and without let his friend go into the detail of his position Petritsky begin tell he all the interesting news .
listen to Petritsky 's familiar tale , in the familiar surrounding of the house he have live in for three year , Vronsky experience the satisfaction of return to his customary careless Petersburg life .
' impossible ! ' he cry , release the pedal of his washstand , which control a jet of water under which he be bathe his healthy , ruddy neck . ' impossible ! ' he cry , at the news that Laura be under the protection of Mileyev and have throw up Fertinhof .
' and he be still as stupid and self - satisfied ? and what of Buzulukov ? '
' oh , about Buzulukov there be such a tale – splendid ! ' shout Petritsky . ' you know his passion for ball ?
he never miss a single Court ball .
he go to a grand ball wear one of the new helmet – have you see the new helmet ?
they be very good , much light . – well , he stand ...
but you be not listen . '
' yes , I be , ' reply Vronsky , rub himself with a bath - towel .
' the Grand Duchess pass by with one of the Ambassadors , and as his ill - luck would have it they be discuss the new helmet .
the Grand Duchess wish to show he one of they ...
she see our dear Buzulukov stand there ' – Petritsky imitate the pose ' the Grand Duchess ask he for his helmet , but he will not let she have it !
what can this mean ?
they wink at he , nod , frown , to make he give it up ...
no !
he stand there more dead than alive ...
just imagine it ! ...
that – what be his name ? wish to take it from he , but he will not let go ...
the other snatch it away and hand it to the Grand Duchess .
" here , this be one of the new one , " say the Grand Duchess , turn it over , and – just fancy ! – out tumble a pear and sweet – two pound of they ! ...
the dear fellow have collect they in his helmet ! '
Vronsky shake with laughter , and long after , when he be already talk of other thing , he again go off into roar of hearty laughter , show his compact row of strong tooth , at the remembrance of the helmet .
having hear all the news , Vronsky , with the help of his valet , put on his uniform and go to report himself .
after that he intend to go to see his brother and to see Betsy , and to pay a few call in order to begin visit the set in which he could meet Anna Karenina .
as usual in Petersburg , he leave the house not to return till late at night .
PART II
toward the END of the winter a consultation be hold at the Shcherbatskys ' which be intend to ascertain the state of Kitty 's health and to decide what should be do to restore her fail strength .
she be ill , and with the approach of spring grow bad .
their own doctor prescribe cod - liver oil , then iron , and then nitrate of silver , but as none of they do she any good and as he advise she to go abroad for the spring they send for a celebrated specialist .
the celebrated specialist , a very handsome man and by no mean old , insist on sound the invalid .
he , with particular pleasure as it seem , insist that a maidenly sense of shame be only a relic of barbarism , and that nothing be more natural than for a man still in his prime to handle a young woman 's naked body .
he consider this natural because he do it every day , and do not , it seem to he , either feel or think anything wrong when he do it . he therefore consider the feeling of shame in a girl to be not only a relic of barbarism but an insult to he .
they have to submit , for although all the doctor study in the same school and from the same book and know the same science , and though some say that this celebrated man be a bad doctor , at the Princess Shcherbatskaya 's and in her set it be for some reason assume that he alone have a quite special knowledge and he alone could save Kitty .
after having carefully examine and sound the agitated invalid , who be stupefy with shame , the celebrity , having carefully wash his hand , stand in the drawing - room talk to the Prince . the Prince frown and cough as he listen to the doctor .
as a man who have live in the world and be neither stupid nor ill , the Prince do not believe in medicine , and in his heart be vex at this farce , especially as he himself be probably the only one who thoroughly understand the cause of Kitty 's illness . ' what a windbag , ' he think as he listen to the celebrated doctor 's chatter about Kitty 's symptom .
the doctor meanwhile find it hard not to show his contempt for the old fellow , and with difficulty descend to the level of his comprehension .
he see that it be waste of time to talk to he , and that the head in this house be the mother .
it be before she that he mean to spread his pearl .
just then the Princess enter the room with the family doctor .
the Prince move away , try not to show how absurd he think the whole farce .
the Princess be confused and do not know what to do .
she feel guilty toward Kitty .
' well , doctor , decide our fate , ' she say . ' tell I everything ... be there any hope ? ' she mean to ask , but her lip tremble and she could not utter that question , and only add : ' well , doctor ? '
' in a moment , Princess . I will just have a talk with my colleague , and then I shall have the honour of give you my opinion . '
' then we have well leave you ? '
' as you please . '
the Princess leave the room with a sigh .
when the doctor be alone , the family doctor begin timidly to express his opinion , which be that a tuberculous process have begin , but ... etc .
the celebrity listen , but in the midst of the speech look at his large gold watch .
' yes , ' say he , ' but ... '
the family doctor stop respectfully in the middle of what he be say .
' we can not , as you know , determine the beginning of a tuberculous process . as long as there be no cavity there be nothing definite to go by .
but we may suspect it ; and there be indication – a bad appetite , nervous excitability , and so on .
the question be this : when a tuberculous process be suspect , what should be do to nourish the patient ? '
' but you know in these case there be always some hide moral cause , ' the family doctor allow himself to remark with a subtle smile .
' yes , that go without say , ' reply the celebrity , and again look at his watch . ' excuse I , have the bridge over the Yauza be repair , or have one still to drive round ? ' he ask .
' oh , it have be repair ! well then , I can get there in twenty minute .
we be say that the question be this : how to nourish the patient and strengthen the nerve .
the two aim be connect , and we must act on both . '
' how about a journey abroad ? ' ask the family doctor .
' I be oppose to journey abroad .
you see , if a tuberculous process have begin ( which we do not know ) , a journey abroad will not help the case .
something be necessary which will nourish the patient and do no harm . '
and the celebrity explain his plan of a treatment with Soden Water , the chief reason for prescribe this evidently be that it could do no harm .
the family doctor listen attentively and respectfully to the end .
' but in favour of a journey abroad I should like to mention the change of habit , and the removal from surrounding which awaken memory .
besides which , the mother wish it , ' say he .
' ah , in that case let they go , only those german quack will do mischief ...
they must obey ...
however , let they go . '
he again glance at his watch .
' I must be go ! ' he say , move toward the door .
the celebrity inform the Princess ( his sense of what be fitting suggest this to he ) that he would have to see the patient again .
' what , another examination ? ' exclaim the mother , horror - strike .
' oh no , I must only find out a few detail , Princess . '
' if you please , doctor . '
and the mother , follow by the doctor , enter the room in the middle of which Kitty be stand .
her thin cheek be flush and her eye be burn after the ordeal she have endure .
when the doctor enter she blush all over and her eye fill with tear .
her whole illness and the treatment appear to her stupid and even ridiculous .
her treatment seem to she as absurd as piece together the bit of a smashed vase .
her heart be break .
why do they want to dose she with pill and powder ?
but she do not want to pain her mother , especially as her mother consider herself to blame .
' sit down , please , Princess , ' say the celebrity .
he sit down opposite to she , smile , feel her pulse and again begin ask tiresome question .
she answer he , but suddenly grow angry and rise .
' excuse I , doctor , but really this will not lead to anything .
you be ask I the same thing three time over . '
the celebrity be not offend .
' it be only the excitability of an invalid , ' he say to the mother after Kitty have go out . ' and I have finish . '
and to the Princess , as to an exceptionally intelligent woman , the doctor diagnose Kitty 's condition in learned language , and conclude with direction how the unnecessary water be to be drunk .
in reply to the question whether they should go abroad , the doctor think deeply , as if solve a difficult problem , and at last he decide that they should go , but should not believe the quack , and when in doubt should always refer to he .
it be just as if something pleasant have happen when the doctor have go , and Kitty too pretend to be cheerful .
she often now , almost always , have to pretend .
' really , Mama ! I be quite well .
but if you wish to travel , let we go ! ' and try to appear interested in the journey she begin to talk about the preparation for it .
just after the doctor have LEFT , Dolly come .
she know that there be to be a consultation that day , and though she have only recently get up after a confinement ( she have give birth to a daughter at the end of the winter ) , and though she have many trouble and care of her own , she leave her baby and another little girl of hers who be ill , and call to hear Kitty 's fate , which be to be decide that day .
' well , how be she ? ' she say , enter the drawing - room without remove her bonnet .
' you be all cheerful , so it must be all right ! '
they try to tell she what the doctor have say , but it turn out that though he have speak very fluently and at great length , it be impossible to reproduce what he have say .
the only thing of interest be that it have be decide they should go abroad .
dolly could not suppress a sigh .
her good friend , her sister , be go away ; and as it be , her life be not a bright one .
her relation with her husband after their reconciliation have become humiliating .
Anna 's soldering have not prove durable , and the family harmony have break again at the same place .
there be nothing definite , but Oblonsky be hardly ever at home , there be hardly ever any money , and suspicion of his infidelity continually torment Dolly , who try to repel they , fear the already familiar pang of jealousy .
the first explosion of jealousy , once past , could not be repeat . not even the discovery of an act of infidelity could again affect she as it have do the first time .
such a discovery could now only deprive she of her accustomed family life , and she let herself be deceive , despise he , and especially herself , for such weakness .
add to this the care of a large family worry she continually : either something go wrong with the feeding of the baby or the nurse leave , or , as now , one of the child fall ill .
' and how be you all get on ? ' ask her mother .
' ah , Mama , we have plenty of trouble of our own .
Lily have fall ill , and I be afraid it be scarlet fever .
I have come out to - day to hear the news , because I shall not come out at all if ( which God forbid ! ) it really be scarlet fever . '
the old Prince come out of his study after the doctor have go , and after give his cheek to Dolly and greet she he turn to his wife :
' well , have you make up your mind to go ?
and what be you go to do with I ? '
' I think you should stay behind , Alexander , ' reply his wife .
' as you please . '
' mama , why should not Papa come with we ? ' say Kitty . ' it would be pleasanter for he and for we too . '
the old Prince rise and stroke Kitty 's hair .
she lift her face and , force a smile , look up at he .
she always feel that he understand she well than anyone else in the family , though he do not speak much to she .
be the young she be his favourite , and it seem to she that his affection give he insight .
when her gaze now meet his kindly blue eye look steadily at she , it seem to she that he see right through she , and know all the trouble that be in she .
she bend toward he , blush , and expect a kiss , but he only pat she on the head and remark :
' these stupid chignon !
one can not get at one 's real daughter , but only caress the hair of expired female .
well , Dolly , ' he say , turn to his eld daughter , ' and what be your prodigal about ? '
' nothing particular , Papa , ' answer Dolly , understand that he refer to her husband . ' he be always out , I hardly see he , ' – she could not resist add with an ironical smile .
' and have he not yet go to the country to sell the forest ? '
' no , he be always prepare to go . '
' dear I ! ' say the Prince . ' and so I be also to prepare ?
I be all obedience , ' he say to his wife , as he sit down again . ' and look here , Kate , ' he go on , turn to his young daughter : ' you must wake up one fine morning and say to yourself " why , I be quite well and happy , and will go out to walk in the frost again with Papa . "
eh ? '
her father 's word seem very simple , but they make Kitty feel as confused and flurry as a detect criminal .
' yes , he know and understand it all , and in these word be tell I that , though I be ashamed , I must get over my shame . '
she could not gather spirit enough to reply .
she make an attempt , but suddenly burst into tear and run away .
the Princess fly at her husband : ' that come of your joke . you always ... ' and she begin reproach he .
the Prince listen for some time to her rebuke in silence , but his face frown more and more .
' she be so pitiful , poor thing , so pitiful , and you do not feel that every allusion to what have cause it hurt she .
oh dear , oh dear , to be so mistaken in anyone ! ' say the Princess , and from the change in her tone both Dolly and the Prince know that she be think of Vronsky . ' I can not think why we have no law to punish such horrid , ignoble people . '
' oh , it make I sick to hear it ! ' mutter the Prince gloomily , rise as if he mean to go away , but stop at the door . ' the law be there , my dear , and since you have invite it I will tell you who be at fault for it all : you , and you , and no one but you !
there always have be and there still be law against such fellow !
yes , and if nothing have be do that ought not to have be do , I , old as I be , would have challenge he – that fop !
yes , now go and dose she , and call in these quack ! '
the Prince appear to have much more to say , but as soon as the Princess hear his tone she , as always happen in serious case , give in and become repentant .
' Alexander , Alexander , ' she whisper , move near and burst into tear .
as soon as she begin to cry the Prince quiet down , and come up to she .
' that will do , that will do !
you suffer too , I know .
it can not be help !
there be no great harm do .
God be merciful ... thank you ... ' he go on , no long know what he be say , and after respond to his wife 's wet kiss which he feel on his hand , he go out .
when Kitty , in tear , have leave the room , Dolly , with her motherly habit of mind , at once see that here a woman 's task lie before she , and prepare to fulfil it .
she take off her bonnet and , having mentally roll up her sleeve , prepare for action .
while her mother be attack her father , she try to restrain the former as far as filial respect permit .
when the Prince flare up she keep silent , feel shame for her mother and tenderness toward her father because of his immediate return to kindliness ; but when her father leave the room she be ready for the chief thing needful , which be to go to Kitty and comfort she .
' I want to tell you something long ago , Mama . do you know that Levin wish to propose to Kitty when he be here last ?
he tell Stephen . '
' well , what of that ?
I do not understand ... '
' perhaps Kitty reject he ? ...
do she not tell you ... ? '
' no , she tell I nothing about either – she be too proud .
but I know it be all because of that ... '
' yes , and just imagine if she refuse Levin – and she would not have refuse he if it have not be for that other . I know ...
and then … the other deceive she so dreadfully . '
it be too dreadful for the Princess to think how much she be to blame in regard to her daughter , and she grow angry .
' oh ! I can not make anything out !
nowadays girl all want to trust to their own reason . they do not tell their mother anything , and then ...
' mama , I will go to she . '
' go .
be I prevent you ? ' say the mother .
ON entering KITTY 's little snuggery , a pretty pink room , decorate with vieux saxe figure – as fresh , rosy and gay as Kitty herself have be two month before , dolly remember how light - heartedly and with what love they two have arrange that room the year before .
her heart grow chill when she see Kitty sit on the low chair nearest the door , her eye fix on a corner of the carpet .
Kitty glance at her sister , but the cold and rather severe expression of her face do not change .
' I be go home now and shall have to shut myself up , and you will not be able to come to I , ' say Dolly , sit down beside her sister . ' I want to talk to you . '
' what about ? ' ask Kitty quickly , lift her face in alarm .
' what but your trouble ? '
' I have no trouble . '
' come now , Kitty .
do you think I can help know ?
I know everything .
and believe I it be so unimportant ...
we have all pass through the same . '
Kitty be silent and her face look stern .
' he be not worthy of your suffering for he , ' continue Dolly , go straight to the point .
' no , because he have despise I , ' say Kitty with a shake voice . ' do not speak !
please do not speak ! '
' but who tell you so ?
nobody say so !
I be sure he be in love with you and be still in love , but ... '
' oh dear ! these commiseration be what I dread most of all ! ' cry Kitty , suddenly flare up .
she turn on her chair , blush , and begin rapidly move her finger , press now with one hand and now with the other the buckle of a belt she be hold .
Dolly know her sister 's habit of finger something when she be heat , and she know how apt Kitty be to forget herself when in a passion and to say much that be unpleasant and have well not have be say . she try to pacify she ; but it be too late .
' what do you want I to feel , what ? ' say Kitty quickly . ' that I be in love with a man who would not have anything to do with I , and that I be die for love of he ?
and it be my sister who say that to I . my sister who imagine ... that ... that she sympathize with I ! ...
I do not want this commiseration and hypocrisy ! '
' Kitty , you be unfair ! '
' why do you torment I ? '
' on the contrary , I see you be in distress ... '
but Kitty in her excitement do not listen to she .
' there be nothing for I to grieve for or seek comfort about .
I have enough pride never to let myself love a man who do not love I . '
' but I be not suggest it ...
only , tell I frankly , ' say Dolly , take she by the hand , ' do Levin speak to you ? '
the mention of Levin seem to deprive Kitty of the last fragment of self - control : she jump up from her chair , throw the buckle on the floor , and rapidly gesticulate with her hand she begin :
' what have Levin to do with it ?
I do not understand why you need torment I !
I have say and I repeat I will never , never do what you be do – return to a man who have betray you and have love another woman .
I can not understand it !
you may do it , but I can not . '
having say these word she look at her sister and , see that Dolly remain silent with her head bow sadly , Kitty , instead of leave the room as she have intend to do , sit down by the door , and hide her face in her handkerchief let her head sink down .
for a minute or two there be silence .
Dolly be think about herself .
the humiliation of which she be always conscious be peculiarly painful when her sister touch on it .
she have not expect such cruelty from she , and be angry with she .
but suddenly she hear the rustle of a dress and a burst of suppress sobbing . a pair of arm encircle her neck from below and Kitty be kneel before she .
' dolly dear , I be so , so unhappy ! ' she whisper guiltily .
and the sweet tear - stain face hide itself in the fold of Dolly 's dress .
as if tear be the necessary lubricant without which the machine of mutual confidence could not work properly between the sister , after having have a cry they start talk of indifferent matter , and in so do understand one another .
Kitty know that what she have say in her anger about the unfaithfulness of Dolly 's husband and about her humiliation have cut her poor sister to the depth of her heart , but that she be forgive ; while Dolly on her side learn all that she want to know , her suspicion be confirm and she understand that Kitty 's grief , her hopeless grief , be really cause by the fact that Levin have propose to she and that she have reject he , and now that Vronsky have deceive she , she be prepared to love Levin and to hate Vronsky .
Kitty do not say a word of this ; she speak only of her state of mind .
' I have no trouble whatever , ' she say when she have grow calm , – ' but can you understand that everything have become horrid , disgusting and coarse to I , and above all I myself ?
you can not think what horrid thought I have about everything . '
' but what horrid thought can you have ? ' ask dolly smile .
' the very nasty and coarse , I can not tell you .
it be not grief , not dullness , but much bad .
it be as if all that be good in I have hide itself , and only what be horrid remain .
how be I to tell you ? ' – she continue , notice perplexity in her sister 's eye : – ' Papa begin to speak to I just now ... it seem to I that he think that all I need be to get marry .
Mama take I to a ball : and it seem to I she only take I there to marry I off as quickly as possible and get rid of I .
I know it be not true , but I can not get rid of the idea .
I can not bear to see the so - call eligible man .
I always think they be take my measure .
formerly to go anywhere in a ball - dress be just a pleasure to I . I use to like myself in it ; but now I feel ashamed and uncomfortable .
well , what be one to do ?
the doctor ... '
Kitty become confused ; she be go to say that since this change have come over she , Oblonsky have become intolerably disagreeable to she , and that she could not see he without have the coarse and most monstrous fancy .
' well , you see , everything appear to I in the coarse and most horrid aspect , ' she continue . ' that be my illness .
perhaps it will pass ... '
' but do not think ... '
' I can not .
I only feel comfortable with child , only in your house . '
' what a pity you can not come to see we ! '
' but I will come .
I have have scarlet fever , and I will persuade Mama to let I . '
and Kitty insist on have her own way , go to her sister 's , and nurse the child all through the scarlet fever that really attack they .
the two sister nurse all the six child successfully through the illness , but Kitty 's health do not improve , and in lent the Shcherbatskys go abroad .
the highest petersburg SOCIETY be really all one : all who belong to it know and even visit one another .
but this large circle have its subdivision .
Anna Arkadyevna Karenina have friend and close connection in three different set .
one of these be her husband 's official set , consist of his colleague and subordinate , who in most varied and capricious way be connect and separate by social condition .
Anna find it hard now to recall the feeling of almost religious respect she have at first feel for these people .
now she know they all as well as the inhabitant of a provincial town know one another ; she know the habit and weakness of each of they , and where the shoe pinch this or that foot ; she know their relation to one another and to the governing centre ; she know who side with whom , and how and by what means each support himself , and who agree or disagree with whom and about what ; but ( in spite of admonition and advice from the Countess Lydia Ivanovna ) this bureaucratic circle of male interest could not interest Anna , and she avoid it .
another circle with which Anna be intimate be that through which Karenin have make his career .
the centre of that circle be the Countess Lydia Ivanovna .
it consist of elderly , plain , philanthropic and pious woman and clever , well - educate , ambitious man .
one of the clever man who belong to it call it , ' the conscience of Petersburg Society . '
Karenin set great value on this circle , and Anna , who know how to get on with every one , have during the first part of her life in Petersburg make friend in it too .
but now , on her return from Moscow , that circle become unbearable to she .
it seem to she that she , and all of they , be only pretend , and she feel so bored and uncomfortable in that Society that she visit Lydia Ivanovna as rarely as possible .
the third circle with which Anna be connect be Society in the accepted meaning of the word : the Society of ball , dinner - party , brilliant toilette , the Society which clung to the Court with one hand lest it should sink to the demi - monde , for this the member of that Society think they despise , though its taste be not only similar but identical with their own .
Anna be connect with this set through the Princess Betsy Tverskaya , the wife of her cousin , who have an income of Rs . 12o , ooo a year , and who , from the time Anna first appear in Society , have particularly like she , make much of she , and draw she into her own set , make fun of that to which the Countess Lydia Ivanova belong .
' when I be old and ugly I will become like that , ' Betsy use to say , ' but for you , a young and beautiful woman , it be too early to settle down in that alm - house . '
at first Anna have avoid the Princess Tverskaya 's set as much as she could , because it demand more expense than she could afford ; and also because she really approve more of the other set ; but after her visit to Moscow all this be reverse .
she avoid her moral friend and go into grand Society .
there she see Vronsky , and experience a tremulous joy when meet he .
she meet he most frequently at Betsy 's , who be a Vronsky herself and his cousin .
Vronsky go everywhere where he have a chance of meet Anna , and speak to she of his love whenever he could .
she give he no encouragement , but every time they meet there spring up that feeling of animation which have seize she in the train on the morning when she first see he .
she be aware that when they meet joy light up her eye and draw her lip into a smile , but she could not hide the expression of that joy .
at first Anna sincerely believe that she be displeased with he for allow himself to persecute she ; but soon after her return from Moscow , having go to a party where she expect to meet he but to which he do not come , she clearly realize , by the sadness that overcome she , that she have be deceive herself and that his persecution supply the whole interest of her life .
a famous prima donna be give her second performance and all high Society be at the Opera House .
Vronsky , from the front row of the stall , see his cousin , go to her box without wait for the interval .
' why do you not come to dinner ? ' she say , add with a smile and so that only he could hear she : ' I be amazed at the clairvoyance of lover ! she be not there !
but come in after the opera . '
Vronsky look at her inquiringly .
she nod , and he thank she by a smile and sit down beside she .
' and how well I remember your ridicule ! ' continue the Princess Betsy , who take particular pleasure in follow the progress of this passion . ' what have become of it all ?
you be catch , my dear fellow ! '
' I wish for nothing well than to be catch , ' reply Vronsky with his calm good - natured smile . ' to tell the truth , if I complain at all , it be only of not be catch enough !
I be begin to lose hope . '
' what hope can you have ? ' say Betsy , offend on her friend 's behalf : ' entendon nous ! ' but in her eye little spark twinkle which say that she understand very well , and just as he do , what hope he might have .
' none whatever , ' say Vronsky , laugh and show his close - set tooth . ' excuse I ! ' he add , take from her hand the opera - glass , and he set to work to scan across her bare shoulder the row of box opposite . ' I be afraid I be become ridiculous . '
he know very well that he run no risk of appear ridiculous either in Betsy 's eye or in the eye of Society people generally .
he know very well that in their eye , the role of the disappointed lover of a maiden or of any single woman might be ridiculous ; but the role of a man who be pursue a married woman , and who make it the purpose of his life at all cost to draw she into adultery , be one which have in it something beautiful and dignified and could never be ridiculous ; so it be with a proud , glad smile lurk under his moustache that he put down the opera - glass and look at his cousin .
' and why do you not come to dinner ? ' she say admiringly .
' I must tell you about that .
I be engage , and with what do you think ?
I will give you a hundred or a thousand guess – and you will not find out !
I be make peace between a husband and a fellow who have insult his wife .
yes , really ! '
' well , and do you succeed ? '
' nearly . '
' you must tell I all about it , ' she say , rise . ' come back in the next interval . '
' I can not : I be go to the French Theatre . '
' what ? from Nilsson ? ' ask Betsy , quite horrified , though she could not have distinguish Nilsson 's voice from that of a chorus girl .
' it can not be help , I have an appointment there in connection with this same peacemaking of mine . '
' -"Blessed be the peacemaker , for they will be saved!"- ' say Betsy , remember that she have hear some one say something like that . ' well , then , sit down and tell I about it . '
and she sit down again .
' it be rather improper but so charming that I long to tell it , ' say Vronsky , gaze at she with laugh eye . ' I sha not mention name . '
' so much the well . I shall guess they . '
' well then , listen : two gay young fellow be out drive ... '
' officer of your regiment , of course ? '
' I do not say officer , but just two young man who have be lunch ... '
' translate that " not wisely but too well . " - '
' it may be .
they be on their way to dine with a comrade , and in the high spirit .
they see that a pretty woman in a hire sledge be pass they , look at they , and laugh and nod to they – at any rate they think so .
of course off they go after she , gallop full speed .
to their surprise the lovely one stop at the door of the very house they be go to .
she run up to the top flat .
they only manage to see a pair of red lip beneath a short veil , and lovely little foot ... '
' you tell it with so much feeling that I think you yourself must have be one of the two . '
' and what do you say to I just now ?
well , the young man go into their comrade 's flat . he be give a farewell dinner .
there they may really have drink rather too much , as always happen at farewell dinner .
at dinner they inquire who live in the top flat .
no one know ; but their host 's footman , in answer to their question whether " girl " live there , reply that there be a lot of they thereabout .
after dinner the young man go into the host 's study to compose a letter to the fair stranger , and , having write one full of passion and contain a declaration , they carry it upstairs themselves , in order to explain anything that might not be quite clear in the letter . '
' why do you tell I such horror ?
' they ring .
a maid open the door ; they give she the letter and assure she that they be both so much in love that they will die at once on the doorstep .
the maid , quite bewildered , carry on the negotiation .
suddenly a gentleman with sausage - shape whisker , and as red as a lobster , appear , announce that no one but his wife live in that flat and turn they both out ... '
' how do you know he have " sausage - shape whisker , " as you say ? '
' you just listen !
to - day I go to reconcile they : '
' well , what happen ? '
' this be the most interesting part .
it turn out that the happy couple be a titular Councillor [ a modest rank in the Civil Service . ] and a titular Councilloress !
the titular Councillor lodge a complaint , and I turn into a peacemaker – and what a peacemaker ! ...
I assure you Talleyrand be nothing to I ! '
' what be the difficulty ? '
' you shall hear .
we duly apologize : " we be in despair ; we beg to be forgive for our unfortunate mistake . "
the titular Councillor with his sausage begin to thaw , but also wish to express his feeling , and as soon as he begin to express they he begin to get excited and grow insulting , and again I have to set all my diplomatic talent in motion .
" I agree that they act badly , but beg you to consider that it be a mistake ; consider their youth ; besides which the young man have just dine .
you understand !
they repent from the bottom of their heart , and ask you to forgive their fault . "
the titular Councillor again soften . " I be willing to forgive they , Count , but you must understand that my wife , a respectable woman , have be subject to the rudeness and insult of these hobbledehoy , these scound ... '
and you must remember that one of the hobbledehoy be stand there , and I have to reconcile they ! again I set my diplomacy go , and again , just as the whole business should be conclude , my titular Councillor fly into a rage , get red , his sausage stick out , and again I dissolve into diplomatic subtlety . '
' oh , you must hear this ! ' cry Betsy , laugh and turn to a lady who be just enter the box . ' he have make I laugh so ! ' ' well , bonne chance ! ' she add , give Vronsky a finger that be not engage in hold her fan , and with a movement of her shoulder make the bodice of her dress , that have rise a little , slip down again that she might be befittingly nude on return to the front of the box into the glare of gas - light and the gaze of all eye .
Vronsky go to the French Theatre , where he really have to see the Commander of his regiment ( who never omit a single performance there ) to talk over this reconciliation business which have occupy and amuse he for the last three day .
Petritsky ; whom Vronsky be fond of , be mix up in the affair , and so be young Prince Kedrov , a first - rate fellow and a capital comrade , who have lately join the regiment .
above all , the interest of the regiment be involve .
both officer belong to Vronsky 's squadron .
titular Councillor Wenden have be to see the Commander and have lodge a complaint against the officer who have insult his wife .
his young wife , so Wenden declare ( he have be marry six month ) , have be to church with her mother , and suddenly feel unwell as a result of her interesting condition , be unable to stand any long and take the first good sledge she could find .
these officer , in their sledge , race after she ; she become frightened , and feel still more unwell run up the stair to her flat .
Wenden himself , having return from his office and hear the front - door bell and voice , go out , see the tipsy officer with the letter , and hustle they out .
he request that they should be severely punish .
' no , say what you like , ' the Commander remark to Vronsky , whom he have invite to his house , ' Petritsky be become impossible .
not a week pass without some scandal .
that Councillor will not let the matter rest : he will go far with it . '
Vronsky realize how ungrateful a task it be – that a duel be out of the question , and that everything must be do to soften the titular Councillor and hush up the affair .
the C.O. have call Vronsky in just because he know he to be honourable and able , and above all a man who value the honour of the regiment .
after discuss the matter , they decide that Vronsky should go with Petritsky and Kedrov to apologize to the Councillor .
both the Commander and Vronsky be aware that Vronsky 's name and his badge as aide - de - camp to the Emperor ought greatly to help in soften the titular Councillor 's feeling , and really these thing have a partial effect ; but the result of the peacemaking still remain doubtful , as Vronsky have explain .
having reach the French Theatre , Vronsky go out into the foyer with the C.O. , and inform he of his success or lack of success .
after consider the whole question , the Commander decide to let the matter drop ; but , for amusement , he ask Vronsky for particular of the interview , and could not help laugh for a long time as he listen to the description of how the titular Councillor suddenly again flare up at the recollection of some incident of the affair , and how Vronsky manoeuvre so as to retire just at the last half - word of reconciliation , push Petritsky before he .
' a bad business , but most amusing !
Kedrov can not fight that good man !
and so he be in a great rage ? ' repeat the Commander , laugh . ' but what do you think of Clare this evening ?
wonderful ! ' he go on , refer to the new french actress . ' however often one see she , she be new each day .
only the French can do that ! '
PRINCESS BETSY WENT home without wait for the end of the last act .
she have scarcely time to go to her dressing - room , put powder on her long pale face and rub it off again , smarten herself up , and order tea to be serve in the big drawing - room , before one carriage after another begin to arrive at the door of her immense house on the Great Morskaya .
the visitor pass beneath the broad portico , and the massive hall porter , who in the morning read a newspaper behind the glass pane of the front door for the edification of passer - by , now noiselessly open this enormous door to admit they .
almost at one and the same time the hostess , her hair rearrange and her face freshen up , enter at one door and the visitor at another of the large , dark - walled drawing - room , with its thick carpet and brightly - light table , shine in the candle - light with white tablecloth , silver samovar and translucent china .
the hostess sit down beside the samovar and take off her glove .
the chair be move by the aid of unobtrusive footman , the company settle down , separate into two circle : one with the hostess round the samovar , the other , at the opposite end of the room round the wife of an ambassador , a beautiful woman with black sharply - outline eyebrow , in a black velvet dress .
the conversation in both circle , as always happen at first , hesitate for a few minute , be interrupt by greeting , recognition , and offer of tea , and seem to be seek something to settle on .
' she be wonderfully good as an actress , one see that she have study Kaulbach , ' remark an attaché in the circle round the ambassador 's wife . ' do you notice how she fall ... '
' oh , please do not let we talk about Nilsson ! it be impossible to say anything new about she , ' say a stout , red - faced , fair - haired lady who wear an old silk dress and have no eyebrow and no chignon .
this be the Princess Myagkaya , notorious for her simplicity and the roughness of her manner , and nickname l'enfant terrible .
the Princess Myagkaya be seat midway between the two circle , listen and take part in the conversation of both . ' this very same sentence about Kaulbach have be repeat to I by three different people to - day , as if by arrangement .
that sentence , I do not know why seem to please they very much . '
the conversation be break by this remark , and it become necessary to find another topic .
' tell we something amusing but not malicious , ' say the ambassador 's wife , a great adept at that kind of elegant conversation which the English call ' small - talk , ' turn to the attaché , who be also at a loss what subject to start .
' People say that be very difficult , and that only what be malicious be amusing , ' he begin with a smile .
' but I will try , if you will give I a theme .
the theme be everything .
once one have a theme , it be easy to embroider on it .
I often think that the famous talker of the last century would find it difficult to talk cleverly nowadays .
we be all so tired of the clever thing ... '
' that be say long ago , ' interrupt the ambassador 's wife , laughingly .
the conversation have begin very prettily , but just because it be too pretty it languish again .
they have to return to the one sure and never - fail resource – slander .
' do not you think there be something Louis Quinze about Tushkevich ? ' say the attaché , glance at a handsome , fair - haired young man who stand by the tea - table .
' oh yes !
he match the drawing - room ; that be why he come here so often ! '
this conversation do not flag , since it hint at what could not be speak of in this room , namely , at the relation exist between Tushkevich and their hostess .
around the hostess and the samovar , the conversation , after flicker for some time in the same way between the three inevitable theme : the late public news , the theatre , and criticism of one 's neighbour , also catch on when it get to the last of these theme – slander .
' have you hear ? that that Maltyshcheva woman also – not the daughter but the mother – be have a diable rose costume make for herself ? '
' you do not mean to say so !
how delicious ! '
' I wonder that she , with her common sense – for she be not stupid – do not see how ridiculous she make herself . '
every one have something disparage to say about the unfortunate Maltyshcheva , and the conversation begin crackle merrily like a kindling bonfire .
the Princess Betsy 's husband , a fat , good - natured man , an enthusiastic collector of engraving , hear that his wife have visitor , enter the drawing - room before go to his club .
step silently on the thick carpet , he approach the Princess Myagkaya .
' how do you like Nilsson ? ' he inquire .
' oh , how can you steal on one like that ?
how you frighten I ! ' say she in reply . ' please do not talk to I about the opera – you know nothing of music .
I have well descend to your level and talk about your majolica and engraving .
come now , tell I about the treasure you have pick up lately at the rag fair ! '
' shall I show you ?
but you do not understand they . '
' yes , let I see they .
I have learn from those – what be their name ? – the banker ... they have some splendid engraving .
they show they to we . '
' what ? have you be to the Schuzburgs ? ' ask the hostess from her place by the samovar .
' I have , ma chère .
they ask my husband and I to dinner , and I be tell that the sauce alone at that dinner cost a thousand rouble , ' say the Princess Myagkaya loudly , feel that everybody be listen . ' and a very nasty sauce it be too , something green !
we have to invite they , and I give they a sauce that cost eighty - five kopek , and satisfy every one .
I can not afford thousand - rouble sauce . '
' she be unique ! ' say the hostess .
' wonderful ! ' say some one else .
the effect produce by the Princess Myagkaya 's word be always the same ; and the secret of that effect lie in the fact that although she often – as at that moment – speak not quite to the point , her word be simple and have a meaning .
in the Society in which she live word of that kind produce the effect of a most witty joke .
the Princess Myagkaya do not understand why her word have such an effect , but be aware that they do and avail herself of it .
as while she be speak everybody listen to she and the conversation in the circle round the ambassador 's wife stop , the hostess wish to make one circle of the whole company , and turn to the ambassador 's wife , say :
' will you really not have a cup of tea ?
you should come and join we here . '
' no , we be very comfortable here , ' reply the ambassador 's wife smile , and she continue the interrupted conversation .
it be a very pleasant conversation .
they be disparage the Karenins , husband and wife .
' Anna have change very much since her trip to Moscow .
there be something strange about she , ' say a friend of Anna 's .
' the chief change be that she have bring back with she the shadow of Alexis Vronsky , ' say the ambassador 's wife .
' well , why not ?
Grimm have a fable call " the Man without a shadow " – about a man who lose his shadow as a punishment for something or other .
I never could understand why it be a punishment !
but for a woman to be without a shadow can not be pleasant . '
' yes , but a woman with a shadow generally end badly , ' say Anna 's friend .
' a murrain on your tongue ! ' suddenly remark the Princess Myagkaya , hear these word . ' Anna Karenina be a splendid woman .
I do not like her husband , but I be very fond of she . '
' why do not you like her husband ?
he be such a remarkable man , ' say the ambassador 's wife . ' my husband say there be few statesman like he in Europe . '
' my husband tell I the same , but I do not believe it , ' reply the Princess Myagkaya . ' if our husband do not talk , we should see thing as they really be ; and it be my opinion that Karenin be simply stupid .
I say it in a whisper !
do this not make everything quite clear ?
formerly , when I be tell to consider he wise , I keep try to , and think I be stupid myself because I be unable to perceive his wisdom ; but as soon as I say to myself , he be stupid ( only in a whisper of course ) , it all become quite clear ! do not you think so ? '
' how malicious you be to - day ! '
' not at all .
I have no choice .
one of we be stupid , and you know it be impossible to say so of oneself . '
' no one be satisfied with his position , but every one be satisfied with his wit , ' remark the attaché , quote some french line .
' that be it , that be just it , ' rejoin the Princess Myagkaya , turn quickly toward he . ' but the point be , that I will not abandon Anna to you .
she be so excellent , so charming !
what be she to do , if every one be in love with she and follow she about like a shadow ? '
' but I do not even think of blame she ! ' Anna 's friend say , justify herself .
' if no one follow we about like a shadow , that do not prove that we have a right to judge she . '
having snub Anna 's friend handsomely , the Princess Myagkaya rise with the ambassador 's wife and join those at the table , where there be a general conversation about the King of Prussia .
' whom be you backbite there ? ' ask Betsy .
' the Karenins .
the Princess be characterize Karenin , ' reply the ambassador 's wife with a smile , seat herself at the table .
' it be a pity we do not hear it ! ' say the hostess , glance at the door . ' ah ! here you be at last ! ' she add , smilingly address Vronsky as he enter the room .
Vronsky not only know everybody in the room , but see they all every day , so he enter in the calm manner of one who rejoin those from whom he have part only a short time before .
' where do I come from ? ' he say in reply to the ambassador 's wife . ' there be no help for it , I must confess that I come from the Theatre Bouffe .
I have be there a hundred time , and always with fresh pleasure .
excellent !
I know it be a disgrace , but at the opera I go to sleep , while at the Bouffe I stay till the last minute enjoy it .
to - night ... '
and he name a french actress and be about to tell they something about she when the ambassador 's wife stop he with mock alarm .
' please do not talk about those horror ! '
' all right , I will not – especially as everybody know those horror ! '
' and everybody would go there if it be consider the thing , as the opera be , ' put in the Princess Myagkaya .
STEPS be heard at the entrance , and the Princess Betsy , know that it be Anna , glance at Vronsky .
he be look at the door with a strange new expression on his face .
he gaze joyfully , intently , and yet timidly at the lady who be enter , and slowly rise from his seat .
Anna enter the room hold herself , as usual , very erect , and without change the direction of her eye approach her hostess , walk with that quick , firm yet light step which distinguish she from other Society woman . she shake hand ; smilingly , and with the same smile look round at Vronsky .
he bow low and move a chair toward she .
Anna respond only by an inclination of the head , though she blush and frown .
but immediately , nod rapidly to her acquaintance and press the hand extend to she , she turn again to her hostess :
' I have just be at the Countess Lydia 's .
I mean to come soon , but could not get away .
Sir John be there – he be very interesting . '
' oh , that missionary ? '
' yes , he be tell we about indian life . it be very interesting . '
the conversation , interrupt by her entrance , again burn up like the flame of a lamp that have be blow about .
' Sir John !
oh yes , Sir John !
I have see he .
he speak very well .
the elder Vlasyeva be quite in love with he . '
' and be it true that the young Vlasyeva be go to be marry to Topov . '
' yes ; they say it be quite settle . '
' I be surprised at her parent .
they say it be a love match . '
' love match !
what antediluvian idea you have !
who talk of love nowadays ? ' say the ambassador 's wife .
' what be to be do ?
that silly old fashion have not die out yet ! ' say Vronsky .
' so much the bad for those who follow the fashion !
I know of happy marriage , but only such as be found on reason . '
' yes , but how often the happiness of marriage found on reason crumble to dust because the very passion that be disregard make itself feel later , ' say Vronsky .
' but by " marriage found on reason , " we mean marriage between those who have both pass through that madness .
it be like scarlet fever : one have to get it over . '
' then some one should invent a way of inoculate love , like vaccination . '
' when I be young I be in love with a chorister , ' say Princess Myagkaya . ' I do not know whether it do I any good . '
' no , joke apart , I believe that to understand love one must first make a mistake and then correct it , ' say the Princess Betsy .
' even after marriage ? ' say the ambassador 's wife archly .
' it be never too late to mend ! ' say the attaché , quote the english proverb .
' exactly ! ' chime in Betsy . ' one have to make mistake and correct they .
what do you think ? ' she ask , address Anna , who with a scarcely discernible resolute smile be listen to this conversation .
' I think , ' reply Anna , toy with the glove she have pull off , ' I think ... if it be true that there be as many mind as there be head , then there be as many kind of love as there be heart . '
Vronsky have gaze at Anna and with sink heart wait to hear what she would say .
he sigh , as after a danger avert , when she have utter these word .
suddenly Anna address he :
' I have receive a letter from Moscow .
they write that Kitty Shcherbatskaya be very ill . '
' really ? ' say Vronsky , frown .
Anna glance sternly at he .
' it do not interest you ? '
' on the contrary , it interest I very much !
what exactly do they write , if I may ask ? ' he inquire .
Anna rise and go up to Betsy .
' give I a cup of tea , ' she say , stop behind Betsy 's chair .
while Betsy be pour out the tea , Vronsky go up to Anna .
' what do they write ? ' he ask again .
' I often think man do not understand honour , though they be always talk about it , ' say Anna , without answer his question . ' I have long want to tell you , ' she add , and , move a few step to a side table on which lie some album , she sit down .
' I do not quite understand your meaning , ' he say , hand she the cup .
' I want to tell you , ' she begin again , without look at he , ' that you have behave badly , very badly . '
' do not I know that I behave badly ?
but who be the cause ? '
' why say that to I ? ' she ask , look severely at he .
' you know why , ' he answer boldly and joyously , meet her look and continue to gaze at she .
it be not he , but she , who became abash .
' that only prove you have no heart , ' she say .
but her look say that she know he have a heart and that she therefore fear he .
' what you have just refer to be a mistake , and not love . '
but then she feel that the one word forbid show that she claim certain right over he , thereby encourage he to speak of love . ' I have long want to say that to you , ' she go on , look resolutely into his eye , her face all aglow and suffuse with a burn blush , ' and today I come on purpose , know I should meet you here .
I have come to tell you that this must stop !
I have never till now have to blush before anyone , but you make I feel as if I be guilty of something . '
he look at she , and be strike by the new , spiritual beauty of her face .
' what do you want of I ? ' he ask , simply and seriously .
' I want you to go to Moscow and beg Kitty 's pardon , ' say she .
' you do not want that , ' he reply .
he see that she be say what she force herself to utter and not what she wish to say .
' if you love I as you say you do , ' she whisper , ' behave so that I may be at peace . '
his face brighten .
' do not you know that you be all my life to I ? ... but peace I do not know , and can not give to you .
my whole being , my love ... yes !
I can not think about you and about myself separately .
you and I be one to I .
and I do not see before we the possibility of peace either for I or for you .
I see the possibility of despair , misfortune ... or of happiness – what happiness ! ...
be it impossible ? ' he add with his lip only , but she hear .
she exert all the power of her mind to say what she ought ; but instead she fix on he her eye fill with love and do not answer at all .
' this be it ! ' he think with rapture . ' just as I be begin to despair , and when it seem as though the end would never come ... here it be !
she love I !
she acknowledge it ! '
' do this for I : never say such word to I , and let we be good friend . ' these be her word , but her eye say something very different .
' friend we shall not be , you know that yourself ; but whether we shall be the happy or the most miserable of human being ... rest with you . '
she wish to say something , but he interrupt she .
' I ask only one thing : I ask the right to hope and suffer as I do now ; but if even that be impossible , command I to disappear , and I will do it .
you shall not see I if my presence be painful to you . '
' I do not want to drive you away . '
' only do not change anything .
leave everything as it be ! ' he say with tremble voice . ' here be your husband . '
indeed , just at that moment Karenin , with his deliberate , ungraceful gait , enter the drawing - room .
he glance at his wife and Vronsky , go up to the hostess , and having sit down with a cup of tea begin talk in his deliberate and always clear tone , in his usual ironical way ridicule somebody .
' your Hotel Rambouillet be in full muster , ' say he , glance round the whole company , ' the Graces and the muse . '
but the Princess Betsy could not bear that tone of his : ' sneer , ' she call it in English : so , like a clever hostess , she at once lead he into a serious conversation on universal military service .
Karenin be immediately absorb in the conversation , and begin defend the new law very earnestly against the Princess Betsy , who attack it .
Vronsky and Anna remained sit at the little table .
' this be become indecent ! ' whisper a lady , indicate by a glance Vronsky , Anna , and Anna 's husband .
' what do I tell you ? ' reply Anna 's friend .
not these two lady alone , but nearly all those present in the drawing - room , even the Princess Myagkaya and Betsy herself , several time glance across at the pair who have go away from the general circle , as if their having do so disturb the other .
only Karenin do not once glance that way and be not distract from the interesting conversation in which he be engage .
notice the unpleasant impression produce on every one , the Princess Betsy manoeuvre for some one else to take her place and to listen to Karenin , and she herself go up to Anna .
' I be always amazed at your husband 's clearness and exactitude of expression , ' she say . ' the most transcendental idea become accessible to I when he speak . '
' oh yes ! ' say Anna , radiant with a smile of happiness and not understand a single word of what Betsy be say ; and go across to the big table she join in the general conversation .
after half an hour 's stay Karenin go up to his wife and suggest that they should go home together ; but , without look at he , she answer that she would stay to supper .
Karenin bow to the company and go away .
the Karenins ' fat old Tartar coachman , in his shiny leather coat , be find it hard to control the near grey horse that have grow restive with cold , wait before the portico .
the footman stand hold open the carriage door .
the hall - porter stand with his hand on the outer front door , Anna with her deft little hand be disengage the lace of her sleeve which have catch on a hook of her fur coat , and with bent head be listen with delight to what Vronsky , who accompany she , be say .
' grant that you have not say anything ! I do not demand anything , ' he be say , ' but you know that it be not friendship I want ! only one happiness be possible for I in life , the word you so dislike – yes , love ... '
' love , ' she slowly repeat to herself , and suddenly while release the lace , she add aloud : ' the reason I dislike that word be that it mean too much for I , far more than you can understand , ' and she look he in the face . ' Au revoir ! '
she give he her hand , and with her quick elastic step go past the hall - porter and vanish into the carriage .
her glance and the touch of her hand burn he .
he kiss the palm of his hand where she have touch it , and go home happy in the knowledge that in this one evening he have make more progress toward his aim than he have during the previous two month .
KARENIN do not see anything PECULIAR or improper in his wife 's converse animatedly with Vronsky at a separate table , but he notice that other in the drawing - room consider it peculiar and improper , therefore he also consider it improper , and decide to speak to his wife about it .
when he reach home he go to his study as usual , seat himself in his easy - chair , and open a book on the Papacy at the place where his paper - knife be insert . he read till one o'clock as be his wo not , only now and then rub his high forehead and jerk his head as if drive something away .
at the usual hour he rise and prepare for bed .
Anna have not yet return .
with the book under his arm he go upstairs ; but to - night , instead of his usual thought and calculation about his official affair , his mind be full of his wife and of something unpleasant that have happen concern she .
contrary to his habit he do not go to bed , but with his hand clasp behind his back start pace up and down the room .
he feel that he could not lie down , till he have think over these newly - arise circumstance .
when Karenin have decide to talk the matter over with his wife , it have seem to he quite easy and simple to do so ; but now , when he begin consider how to approach she , the matter appear very difficult and complicated .
he be not of a jealous disposition .
jealousy in his opinion insult a wife , and a man should have confidence in his wife .
why he should have confidence – that is , a full conviction that his young wife would always love he – he never ask himself ; but he feel no distrust , and therefore have confidence , and assure himself that it be right to have it .
now , though his conviction that jealousy be a shameful feeling , and that one ought to have confidence , have not be destroy , he feel that he be face to face with something illogical and stupid , and he do not know what to do .
Karenin be be confront with life – with the possibility of his wife 's love somebody else , and this seem stupid and incomprehensible to he , because it be life itself .
he have live and work all his day in official sphere , which deal with reflection of life , and every time he have knock up against life itself he have step out of its way .
he now experience a sensation such as a man might feel who , while quietly cross a bridge over an abyss , suddenly see that the bridge be be take to piece and that he be face the abyss .
the abyss be real life ; the bridge be the artificial life Karenin have be live .
it be the first time that the possibility of his wife 's fall in love with anybody have occur to he , and he be horrified .
he do not undress , but pace up and down with his even step on the resounding parquet floor of the dining - room , which be light by one lamp , over the carpet of the dark drawing - room , where a light be reflect only from a recently paint portrait of himself which hang above the sofa , and on through her sitting - room , where two candle be burn , light up the portrait of her relative and friend and the elegant knick - knack , long familiar to he , on her writing - table .
through her room he reach the door of their bedroom and then turn back again .
from time to time he stop , generally on the parquet floor of the lamp - light dining - room , and think : ' yes , it be necessary to decide and to stop it : to express my opinion of it and my decision . ' then he turn back again .
' but express what ? what decision ? ' he ask himself in the drawing - room , and could find no answer .
' but after all , ' he reflect before turn into her room , ' what be it that have happen ?
nothing at all .
she have a long talk with he – well ?
what of that ?
be there not plenty of man with whom a woman may talk ?
besides ... to be jealous be to degrade myself and she , ' he say to himself as he enter her sitting - room . but that consideration which formerly have weigh so much with he now have neither weight nor meaning .
at the bedroom door he turn back , and as soon as he re - enter the dark drawing - room a voice seem to whisper that it be not so , and that if other notice , that show that there must have be something for they to notice .
and again he repeat to himself in the dining - room : ' yes , it be necessary to decide , and stop it , and express my opinion ... '
and again in the drawing - room , at the turn into her room , he ask himself ' decide what ? ' and then , ' what have happen ? ' and he reply ' nothing , ' and remember that jealousy be a feeling which insult a wife ; but in the drawing - room he come again to the conviction that something have happen .
his mind as well as his body perform a complete circle each time without arrive at anything new .
he notice this , rub his forehead , and sit down in her room .
here as he look at her table , at the malachite cover of her blotting - book and an unfinished letter that lie there , his thought suddenly undergo a change .
he begin think about she : of what she think and feel .
for the first time he vividly picture to himself her personal life , her thought , her wish ; but the idea that she might and should have her own independent life appear to he so dreadful that he hasten to drive it away .
that be the abyss into which he fear to look .
to put himself in thought and feel into another being be a mental action foreign to Karenin .
he consider such mental act to be injurious and dangerous romancing .
' and what be most terrible of all , ' think he , ' be that , just now , when my work be come to completion ' ( he be think of the project he be then carry through ) , ' when I need peace and all my power of mind , just now this stupid anxiety fall on I .
but what be to be do ?
I be not one of those who suffer anxiety and agitation and have not the courage to look they in the face ! '
' I must think it over , come to a decision , and throw it off , ' he say aloud .
' the question of her feeling , of what have take place or may take place in her soul , be not my business ; it be the business of her conscience and belong to religion , ' say he , feeling relieve at having find the formal category to which the newly - arisen circumstance rightly belong .
' well then , ' think he , ' the question of her feeling and so on be question for her conscience , which can not concern I .
my duty be clearly define .
as head of the family I be the person whose duty it be to guide she , and who be therefore partly responsible ; I must show she the danger which I see , warn she , and even use my authority .
I must speak plainly to she . '
what he would say to his wife take clear shape in Karenin 's head .
think it over , he regret have to spend his time and power of mind on inconspicuous domestic affair ; but nevertheless , clearly and definitely , as though it be an official report , the form and sequence of the speech he have to make shape itself in his mind .
' I must make the following quite clear : first , the importance of public opinion and propriety ; secondly , the religious meaning of marriage ; thirdly , if necessary , I must refer to the harm that may result to our son ; fourthly , allude to her own unhappiness . '
and interlace his finger , palm downwards , he stretch they and the joint crack .
that movement – a bad habit of crack his finger – always tranquillize he and bring he back to that precision of mind which he now so need .
the sound of a carriage drive up to the front door be hear , and Karenin stand still in the middle of the room .
a woman 's step be hear ascend the stair .
Karenin , ready to deliver his speech , stand press his interlace finger together , try whether some of they would not crack again .
one of the joint do crack .
by the sound of her light step on the stair he be aware of her approach and , though he be satisfied with his speech , he feel some apprehension of the come explanation .
ANNA WALKED in with BOWED HEAD , play with the tassel of her hood .
her face shine with a vivid glow , but it be not a joyous glow – it resemble the terrible glow of a conflagration on a dark night .
on see her husband she lift her head and , as if awake from sleep , smile .
' you be not in bed ?
what a wonder ! ' she say , throw off her hood , and without pause she go on to her dressing - room . ' Alexis Alexandrovich , it be high time ! ' she add from beyond the door .
' Anna , I must have a talk with you . '
' with I ? ' she say with surprise , come back from the other room and look at he . ' what be it ?
what about ? ' she ask , seat herself . ' well , let we have a talk , if it be so important .
but it would be well to go to bed . '
Anna say what come into her head , and hear her own word be astonish at her capacity for deception .
how simple and natural her word sound and how really it seem as if she be merely sleepy !
she feel herself clothe in an impenetrable armour of lie and that some unseen power be help and support she .
' Anna , I must warn you , ' say he .
' warn I ? ' she ask , ' what about ? '
she look so naturally and gaily at he , that one who do not know she as her husband do could not have notice anything strange either in the intonation or the meaning of her word .
but for he , who know she – know that when he go to bed five minute late she notice it and ask the reason – know that she have always immediately tell he all her joy , pleasure and sorrow – for he , her reluctance to notice his state of mind , or to say a word about herself , mean much .
he see that the depth of her soul , till now always open , be close to he .
More than that , he know from her tone that she be not ashamed of this , but seem to be say frankly : ' yes , it be closed , and so it should be and will be in future . '
he now feel like a man who on come home find his house lock against he .
' but perhaps the key can still be find , ' think Karenin .
' I wish to warn you , ' he say in low tone , ' that you may , by indiscretion and carelessness , give the world occasion to talk about you .
your too animate conversation to - night with Count Vronsky ' ( he pronounce the name firmly and with quiet deliberation ) ' attract attention . '
as he speak he look at her laugh eye , terrible to he now in their impenetrability , and feel the uselessness and idleness of his word .
' you be always like that , ' she reply , as if not understand he at all , and intentionally take notice only of his last word . ' one day you dislike my be dull , another day my be happy .
I be not dull .
do that offend you ? '
Karenin start and bent his hand to crack his finger .
' oh , please do not crack your finger ! I dislike it so ! ' she say .
' Anna , be this you ? ' say he softly , make an effort and refrain from move his hand .
' but whatever be the matter ? ' she ask in a tone of comical surprise and sincerity . ' what do you want of I ? '
Karenin pause and rub his forehead and eye .
he feel that instead of do what he have mean to do and – warn his wife that she be make a mistake in the eye of the world , he be involuntarily get excited about a matter which concern her conscience , and be struggle against some barrier of his imagination .
' this be what I intend to say , ' he continue coldly and calmly , ' and I ask you to listen to I .
as you know , I consider jealousy an insulting and degrading feeling and will never allow myself to be guide by it ; but there be certain law of propriety which one can not disregard with impunity .
I do not notice it this evening , but , judge by the impression create , all present notice that you behave and act not quite as be desirable . '
' really , I do not understand at all , ' say Anna , shrug her shoulder . ' it be all the same to he ! ' she say to herself .
' but Society notice , and that disturb he ! you be not well , Alexis Alexandrovich ! ' she add , rise and be about to pass out of the room , but he move forward as if wish to stop she .
his face look plainer and gloomy than she have ever yet see it .
Anna stop and , throw back her head and bend it to one side , she begin with her quick hand to take out her hairpin .
' well , I be listen ! what next ? ' say she quietly and mockingly . ' I be even listen with interest because I should like to understand what it be all about . '
as she speak she wonder at her quietly natural tone and at her correct choice of word .
' I have not the right to inquire into all the detail of your feeling , and in general I consider it useless and even harmful to do so , ' begin Karenin . ' by dig into our soul , we often dig up what might well have remain there unnoticed .
your feeling concern your own conscience , but it be my duty to you , to myself , and to God , to point out to you your duty .
our life be bind together not by man but by God .
this bond can only be break by a crime , and that kind of crime bring its punishment . '
' I do not understand anything ...
oh dear ! and as ill - luck will have it , I be dreadfully sleepy ! ' say she , while with deft finger she feel for the remain pin in her hair .
' Anna , for God 's sake do not talk like that ! ' he say mildly . ' perhaps I be mistaken , but believe I that what I be say I say equally for my own sake and for yours .
I be your husband , and I love you . '
for an instant her head have droop and the mock spark in her eye have die away , but the word ' love ' arouse she again .
' love ! ' she think , ' as if he can love !
if he have never hear people talk of love , he would never have want that word .
he do not know what love be . '
' Alexis Alexandrovich , I really do not understand , ' she reply . ' explain what you consider ... '
' allow I to finish .
I love you .
but I be not talk of myself . the chief person concern be our son and yourself .
I repeat – perhaps my word may seem quite superfluous to you ; perhaps they result from a mistake of mine .
in that case I ask your pardon !
but if you feel that there be any ground , however slight , I beg you to reflect , and if your heart prompt you to tell I ... '
Karenin do not notice that he be say something quite different from what he have prepare .
' I have nothing to say .
besides ... ' she add , rapidly , and hardly repress a smile , ' it really be bedtime . '
Karenin sigh , and without say anything more go into the bedroom .
when she go there he be already in bed .
his lip be sternly compressed and his eye do not look at she .
Anna get into her bed , and every moment expect that he would address she .
she be afraid of what he would say , and yet wish to hear it .
but he remain silent .
she lie wait and motionless for a long time , and then forget he .
she be think of another ; she see he , and feel her heart fill with excitement and guilty joy at the thought .
suddenly she hear an even , quiet , nasal sound like whistling .
for a moment the sound he emit seem to have startle Karenin , and he stop ; but , after he have breathe twice , the whistling recommence with fresh and calm regularity .
' it be late , it be late , ' she whisper to herself , and smile .
for a long time she lie still with wide - open eye , the brightness of which it seem to she she could herself see in the darkness .
from that time a new life begin for Karenin and his wife .
nothing particular happen .
Anna go into Society as before , frequently visit the Princess Betsy , and she meet Vronsky everywhere .
Karenin notice this , but could do nothing .
she meet all his effort to bring about an explanation by present an impenetrable wall of merry perplexity .
externally thing seem as before , but their intimate relation with one another be completely change .
Karenin , strong as he be in his official activity , feel himself powerless here . like an ox he wait submissively with bow head for the pole - axe which he feel be raise above he .
each time he begin to think about it , he feel that he must try again , that by kindness , tenderness , and persuasion there be still a hope of save she and oblige she to bethink herself .
every day he prepare himself to have a talk with she . but each time he begin to speak with she he feel the same spirit of evil and falsehood which have take possession of her master he also , and he neither say the thing he mean to , nor speak in the tone he have mean to adopt .
he speak involuntarily in his habitual half - banter tone which seem to make fun of those who say such thing seriously ; and in that tone it be impossible to say what have to be say to she .
that which for NEARLY a year have be Vronsky 's sole and exclusive desire , supplant all his former desire : that which for Anna have be an impossible , dreadful , but all the more bewitching dream of happiness , have come to pass .
Pale , with tremble low jaw , he stand over she , entreat she to be calm , himself not know why or how .
' Anna , Anna , ' he say in tremble voice , ' Anna , for God 's sake ! ... '
but the louder he speak the low she droop she once proud , bright , but now dishonoured head , and she writhe , slip down from the sofa on which she sit to the floor at his foot . she would have fall on the carpet if he have not hold she .
' my God !
forgive I ! ' she say , sob and press Vronsky 's hand to her breast .
she feel so guilty , so much to blame , that it only remain for she to humble herself and ask to be forgive ; but she have no one in the world now except he , so that even her prayer for forgiveness be address to he .
look at he , she feel her degradation physically , and could say nothing more .
he feel what a murderer must feel when look at the body he have deprive of life .
the body he have deprive of life be their love , the first period of their love .
there be something frightful and revolt in the recollection of what have be pay for with this terrible price of shame .
the shame she feel at her spiritual nakedness communicate itself to he .
but in spite of the murderer 's horror of the body of his victim , that body must be cut in piece and hide away , and he must make use of what he have obtain by the murder .
then , as the murderer desperately throw himself on the body , as though with passion , and drag it and hack it , so Vronsky cover her face and shoulder with kiss .
she hold his hand and do not move . yes !
these kiss be what have be buy by their shame !
' yes , and this hand , which will always be mine , be the hand of my accomplice . '
she lift his hand and kiss it .
he kneel down and try to see her face , but she hide it and do not speak .
at last , as though master herself , she sit up and push he away .
her face be as beautiful as ever , but all the more piteous .
' it be all over , ' she say . ' I have nothing but you leave .
remember that . '
' I can not help remember what be life itself to I !
for one moment of that bliss ... '
' what bliss ? ' she say with disgust and horror , and the horror be involuntarily communicate to he . ' for heaven 's sake , not another word ! '
she rise quickly and move away from he . ' not another word ! ' she repeat , and with a look of cold despair , strange to he , she leave he .
she feel that at that moment she could not express in word her feeling of shame , joy , and horror at this entrance on a new life , and she do not wish to vulgarize that feeling by inadequate word .
later on , the next day and the next , she still could not find word to describe all the complexity of those feeling , and could not even find thought with which to reflect on all that be in her soul .
she say to herself : ' no , I can not think about it now ; later , when I be calm . '
but that calm , necessary for reflection , never come . every time the thought of what she have do , and of what be to become of she and of what she should do , come to her mind , she be seize with horror and drive these thought away .
' not now ; later , when I be calm ! ' she say to herself .
but in her dream , when she have no control over her thought , her position appear to she in all its shocking nakedness .
one dream she have almost every night .
she dream that both at once be her husband , and lavish their caress on she .
Alexis Alexandrovich weep , kiss her hand , say : ' how beautiful it be now ! ' and Alexis Vronsky be there too , and he also be her husband .
and she be surprised that formerly this have seem impossible to she , and laughingly explain to they how much simple it really be , and that they be both now contented and happy .
but this dream weigh on she like a nightmare , and she wake from it fill with horror .
when LEVIN FIRST RETURNED from MOSCOW , and while he still start and blush every time he remember the disgrace of the refusal , he have say to himself , ' I blush and start like this when I be plough in physics and have to remain in the second class ; and in the same way I feel myself lose when I make a mess of my sister 's affair that have be entrust to I .
and what happen ?
now that year have pass , when I remember it , I be surprised that it could have grieve I so much .
so it will be with this grief .
time will pass , and I shall become indifferent . '
but three month pass and he have not become indifferent to it , and to think of it still hurt he as it have do in the first day .
he could not find peace , because he have so long dream of family life and feel so ripe for it , but be still unmarried and far than ever from marriage .
he himself feel painfully what all those around he feel too , that it be not good for a man of his age to be alone .
he remember how , just before leave for Moscow , he have say to Nicholas , his cowman , a naive peasant with whom he like to talk : ' well , Nicholas , I want to get marry , ' and how Nicholas have promptly reply , as on a matter about which there could be no doubt : ' and it be high time , Constantine Dmitrich . '
but now he be furth from marriage than ever .
the place be unoccupied , and when in imagination he try to put one of the girl he know there , he feel that it be quite impossible .
moreover , the memory of her refusal , and the part he have play in it , torment he with shame .
however much he tell himself that he be not at all to blame in that matter , the memory of it , together with other shameful memory , make he start and blush .
there have be in his past , as in that of every man , action which he realize be bad , and for which his conscience ought to have torment he : but the recollection of those bad action do not torment he nearly as much as these trivial yet shameful memory .
these wound never close up .
and among these recollection stand the memory of her refusal and the pitiful role he must have play in the eye of the other that evening .
but time and work tell .
the painful memory become more and more covered over by the commonplace but important event of country life .
every week he think less and less about Kitty .
he wait impatiently to hear that she be marry or be getting marry soon , hope that such news , like the drawing of an ache tooth , would quite cure he .
meanwhile spring have come , a glorious steady spring , without the expectation and disappointment spring usually bring . it be one of these rare spring which plant , animal , and man alike rejoice in .
this lovely spring rouse Levin still more and confirm he in the determination completely to renounce the past in order to fashion his solitary life firmly and independently .
though he have not carry out many of the plan with which he have return to the country from Moscow , he have hold to the most important one , that of live a pure life , and he be not experience the shame which use to torment he when he have fall , but be able to look people boldly in the face .
already in February he have receive a letter from Mary Nikolavna to say that his brother Nicholas 's health be get bad , but that he would not submit to any treatment . in consequence of this news Levin go to Moscow , see his brother , and manage to persuade he to consult a doctor and go to a watering - place abroad .
he be so successful in persuade his brother , and in lend he money for the journey without irritate he , that he be satisfied with himself in this respect .
besides his agricultural pursuit , which require special attention in spring , and besides reading , Levin have another occupation . he have that winter begin write a book on agriculture , the basis of which be that the character of the labourer be treat as a definite factor , like climate and soil , and that therefore the conclusion of agricultural science should be deduce not from datum supply by climate and soil only , but from datum of climate , soil , and the immutable character of the labourer .
so that in spite of his solitary life , or rather because of it , his time be completely fill up ; only occasionally he feel an unsatisfied desire to share with some one besides Agatha Mikhaylovna the thought that wander through his brain – for even with she he often discuss physics , agricultural theory , and especially philosophy , which last be her favourite subject .
the spring have set in late .
during the last week of lent the weather have be clear and frosty .
it thaw in the sunshine by day , but at night the thermometer go down to sixteen degree Fahrenheit . the snow be cover with a crust of ice so thick that cart could pass even where there be no road .
Easter find snow still on the ground ; but on Easter Monday a warm wind begin to blow , the cloud gather , and for three day and night warm stormy rain pour down .
on the Thursday the wind fall and a thick grey mist rise as if to hide the secret of the change nature be carry on .
beneath the mist the snow - water rush down , the ice on the river crack and move , and the turbid , foam torrent flow quick , till on the first Sunday after Easter toward evening the mist dissolve , the cloud break into fleecy cloudlet and disperse , the sky clear , and real spring be there .
in the morning the bright rise sun quickly melt the thin ice on the water and the warm air all around vibrate with the vapour give off by the awaken earth .
last year 's grass grow green again and new blade come up like needle - point , bud swell on the guelder - rise and currant bush and on the sticky , spicy birch tree , and among the golden catkin and on the willow branch the bee begin to hum .
the unseen lark burst into song above the velvety fresh green and the frozen stubble , the peewit begin to cry above the water bring down by the storm and still flood the low - lie place and marsh , and high up the crane and goose fly , utter their spring call .
the cattle , who have lose all but a few patch of their winter coat , begin to low in the meadow ; the crooked - legged lamb begin to play round their bleat mother , who be lose their wool ; swift - footed child begin to run along the quickly - dry path mark with imprint of bare foot , the merry voice of woman who be bleach their linen begin to chatter by the pond , and the axis of peasant , get ready their wooden plough and harrow , click in the yard .
the real spring have come .
LEVIN PUT on his high boots and , for the first time , a cloth coat instead of a fur , and go out to attend to his farm . step now on a piece of ice , now into the sticky mud , he cross the stream of dazzling water .
spring be the time for make plan and resolution , and Levin , like a tree which in the spring - time do not yet know in which direction and in what manner its young shoot and twig ( still imprison in their bud ) will develop , do not quite know what work on his beloved land he be go to take in hand , but he feel that his mind be full of the fine plan and resolution .
first of all he go to the cattle - yard .
the cow have be let out there , and , warm by the sunshine , their glossy new coat glisten , they be low to be let out into the field .
after he have for a while admire his cow , all familiar to he to the minute detail , Levin give order for they to be drive into the field and for the calf to be let out into the yard .
the cowherd run away merrily to get ready .
the dairymaids , with twig in their hand , hold their skirt up over their bare white leg , not yet sun - burn , splash through the puddle into the yard , drive the calf , who be mad with the joy of spring .
having gaze with admiration at the exceptionally fine calf bear that year – the old one be as big as peasant ' cow , and Pava 's three - month - old calf be as big as a yearling – Levin give order to bring a trough of food for they and to put some hay into the rack outside .
but it turn out that the rack , which have be put up in autumn in the yard and not use during winter , be break .
he send for the carpenter , who be under contract to be with the threshing - machine , but it turn out that he be mend the harrow , which should have be mend the week before Lent .
this be very annoying to Levin .
it be vex that the careless farm management , against which he have struggle so many year with all his might , still continue .
he find out that the rack which be not want in winter have be take into the farm - horse ' stable , and there have got break , as they be lightly make , be mean only for the calf .
besides this , it prove that the harrow and all the agricultural implement which he have order to be examine and mend in winter , for which purpose three carpenter have be specially engage , have not be see to , and that the harrow be now be mend when it be time to start harrowing .
Levin send for the steward , but instead of wait go at once to look for he himself .
the steward , in his astrakhan - trim coat , as radiant as everything else that day , be come from the threshing - ground breaking a bit of straw in his hand .
' why be the carpenter not with the threshing - machine ? '
' oh , I mean to tell you yesterday that the harrow need mend .
it be time to plough , you know . '
' why be not it do in winter ? '
' but what do you want with the carpenter ? '
' where be the rack from the calf ' yard ? '
' I have give order for they to be put into their place .
what be one to do with such people ! ' say the steward , wave his arm .
' it be not a case of such people , but of such a steward ! ' say Levin flare up .
' tell I what I keep you for ! ' he shout ; but remember that this would not help matter , he stop in the middle of what he be say and only sigh . ' well , can we begin sow ? ' he ask after a pause .
' it will be possible , beyond Turkino , to - morrow or the day after . '
' and the clover ? '
' I have send vasily , he and Mishka be sow .
only I do not know if they will get through , it be very sticky . '
' how many acre ? '
' sixteen . '
' why not the lot ? ' shout Levin .
that they be only sow sixteen instead of fifty acre with clover be still more annoying .
to grow clover successfully it be necessary accord to both theory and his own experience to sow it as early as possible , almost before the snow have finish melting , and Levin could never get this do .
' there be no one to do it .
what be you to do with such people ?
three have not come .
and now Simon ... '
' well then , you should have let the straw wait . '
' so I have . '
' but where be the man ? '
' five be make compote ' ( he mean compost ) ' and four be turn the oats over . they might begin sprout , Constantine Dmitrich . '
Levin understand very well that ' might begin sprout ' mean that the english seed - oats be already spoil . here again his order have not be obey .
' oh dear , do not I speak about it long ago in Lent ... '
' do not worry , it will all be do in good time . '
Levin wave his hand angrily and go to the barn to look at the oat , then he come back to the stable .
the oats be not yet spoilt , but the man be turn they over with shovel whereas they should have let they run down from the loft . Levin order they to do this , tell off two of the man to help sow the clover , and get over his vexation with the foreman .
indeed , the day be so beautiful one could not long remain angry .
' Ignat ! ' he call to the coachman , who with sleeve roll up be wash a carriage at the pump , ' saddle I ... '
' which , sir ? '
' oh , Kolpik . '
while the horse be be saddle Levin again call the steward , who be hang about within sight , in order to make it up with he , and begin to talk about the spring work that lay before they and his plan for the estate .
' cart manure must be start early so that it should be over before the first hay harvest , and the far field will have to be plough continually so as to keep the earth clean .
we must hire labour for the hay harvest and not pay in kind . '
the foreman listen attentively and evidently try to approve of his master 's plan : but his face still wear that hopeless and despondent expression so familiar to Levin .
this expression seem to say , ' that be all very well , but it will be as God will . '
nothing grieve Levin so much as this manner , but it be a manner common to all the numerous steward he have employ .
they all take up the same attitude toward his plan , and therefore he now no long grow angry with they , but he be grieve , feel all the more stimulate to resist this , so to say , elemental force for which he could find no other name but ' as God will , ' which always obstruct he .
' we will see if we can manage it ! ' say the steward .
' why should you not manage it ? '
' we must have at least fifteen more labourer , but you see they do not come .
some come to - day , but they want seventy rouble each for the summer . '
Levin be silent .
that force be oppose he again .
he know that try as they would they have never manage to get more than from thirty - seven to forty labourer at the proper price . forty could be hire , but never more than forty .
yet all the same he could not but continue the struggle .
' send to Sury and to Chefirovka , if they do not come .
we must try and find man . '
' I will send right enough , ' say Vasily Fedorich , the steward , despondently . ' but the horse too be get weak . '
' we will buy some more .
but do not I know , ' he add laughing , ' that you always want less of everything and bad ? however , this year I will not let you have your way .
I will see to everything myself . '
' you do not sleep much as it be , I think .
it be always pleasanter for we when the master 's eye be on we ... '
' then it be down in the Birch Valley that they be sow the clover ?
I will ride over and see , ' say Levin mount the little light bay horse , Kolpik , which the coachman have bring .
' you will not be able to cross the brook , Constantine Dmitrich , ' the coachman call out .
' well then , I will go through the forest . '
and Levin ride across the muddy yard and out of the gate into the field at a brisk amble , his fresh little horse snort at the puddle and pull at the bridle .
if he have feel light - hearted in the cattle and farm yard , he feel still more so in the field .
gently sway by the amble pace of his good little horse , and drink in the warm smell with the freshness of snow and air in it , he ride through the forest over the crumble sink snow that melt at each footstep , and rejoice at the sight of each one of his tree with its swell bud and the moss revive on its bark .
when he have pass the forest , a vast expanse of velvety green unroll before he without a single bare spot , and only sprinkle here and there in the hollow with patch of unmelted snow .
he be not irritated either by the sight of a peasant 's horse and colt tread down the young growth ( he tell a peasant he meet to drive they off ) , nor by the jeering and stupid answer the peasant , Ipat , whom he happen to meet , give he in reply to his question : ' well , Ipat , will it soon be time to sow ? ' ' we must plough first , Constantine Dmitrich , ' say Ipat .
the far he go the happy he feel and all sort of plan for his estate , each well than the last , present themselves to he : to plant row of willow with a southern aspect on all the field , so that the snow should not remain long under they ; to divide the field , till six and keep three under grass ; to build a new cattle - yard at the further end of the field , to dig a pond , and to make fold for the cattle for manuring purpose .
then he would have three hundred desyatina of wheat , one hundred of potato , and one hundred and fifty of clover , and not a single desyatina exhausted .
dream such dream , carefully guide his horse so as not to trample down his young growth , he ride up to the labourer who be sow the clover .
the cart with the seed be stand not on the border but in a field of winter - wheat , which be be cut up by the wheel and trample by the horse 's foot .
both the labourer be sit on the narrow path between the field , probably share a pipe of tobacco .
the earth in the cart with which the seed be mixed be not rub fine , but be press or freeze into lump .
on see the master the labourer vasily move toward the cart and Mishka begin to sow .
this be not right , but Levin seldom get angry with the hire man .
when vasily come up Levin tell he to take the cart and horse on to the border .
' it will not matter , sir , the wheat will recover . ' ' please do not argue , ' say Levin , ' but do as you be tell . '
' yes , sir , ' answer vasily , and take hold of the horse 's head .
' but the sowing , Constantine Dmitrich , be get on first - rate , ' he say make up to the master .
' only the walking be dreadful .
you drag half a hundredweight on your boot . '
' and why have not the earth be sift ? ' say Levin .
' oh , but we crumble it up , ' say vasily , take a handful and rub the earth between his palm .
vasily be not to blame that they have give he unsifted earth , but still it be annoying .
have more than once successfully test a patent remedy for conquer vexation and make all that seem wrong right again , Levin employ it now .
he look at the stride Mishka take drag the enormous lump of earth that stick to his foot , dismount , take the seed - basket from vasily , and prepare to sow .
' where do you stop ? '
vasily point to a mark with his foot and Levin begin scatter the seed and earth as well he could .
it be hard walk , and having do a row Levin , wet with perspiration , stop and give back the basket .
' mind , sir , and do not scold I for this row when summer come , ' say vasily .
' why ? ' say Levin merrily , feel that his remedy be act well .
' oh , you will see when the summer come .
you will distinguish it .
you just look where I sow last spring , how regularly I scatter it over .
why , Constantine Dmitrich , I do not think I could try hard if I be work for my own father .
I do not like to do thing badly myself and I see that other do not .
what be good for the master be good for we too .
when one look over there it make one 's heart rejoice , ' say vasily , point to the field .
' a fine spring , be not it , vasily ? '
' it be a spring such as the old man do not remember .
I 've be home , and my old father also have sow three measure of wheat .
they say it have catch up the rye . '
' and have you be sow wheat long ? '
' why , it be you who teach we to sow it . the year before last you give I a bushel of seed yourself .
we sow a quarter of it and sell the rest . '
' well , mind and rub the lump , ' say Levin , go up to his horse , ' and keep an eye on Mishka , and if the clover come up well you shall have fifty kopeks for each desyatina . '
' thank you kindly .
we be very grateful to you as it be . '
Levin mount his horse and ride to the field where clover have be sow the year before , and to another which be deeply plough and ready for sow the spring wheat .
the clover be come on splendidly .
it be already revive and steadily grow green among last year 's wheat stubble .
the horse sink into the ground up to its pastern and draw each foot out of the half - thaw earth with a smacking noise .
it be quite impossible to ride over the deeply - plough field ; the earth bear only where there be still a little ice , in the thawed furrow the horse 's leg sink in above its pastern .
the plough land be in excellent condition ; it would be possible to harrow and sow it in a couple of day .
everything be beautiful and gay .
Levin ride back by the way that lead across the brook , hope that the water would have go down , and he do manage to ford the stream , scare two duck in so do .
' there must be some snipe too , ' he think , and just at the turning to his house he meet the keeper , who confirm his supposition .
Levin ride on at a trot , so as to have dinner and get his gun ready for the evening .
as LEVIN , in the HIGHEST spirit , be near the house he hear the sound of a tinkle bell approach the main entrance .
' why , that must be some one from the station , ' he think . ' they would just have have time to get here from the Moscow train .
who be it ?
can it be brother Nicholas ?
he do say , " perhaps I will go to a watering place , or perhaps I will come to you . "- ' for a moment he feel frightened and disturb lest his brother 's presence should destroy the happy frame of mind that the spring have arouse in he .
but he be ashamed of that feeling , and immediately , as it be , open out his spiritual arm and with tender joy expect , and now hope with his whole soul , that it be his brother .
he touch up his horse and , having pass the acacia tree , see a hire three - horse sledge come from the station and in it a gentleman in a fur coat .
it be not his brother .
' oh , if only it be some nice fellow with whom one can have a talk , ' he think .
' ah , ' he cry , joyfully lift both arm , ' here be a welcome guest !
well , I be glad to see you ! ' he exclaim , recognize Oblonsky .
' I shall know now for certain whether she be married or when she will be , ' think Levin .
and on this lovely day he feel that the memory of she do not hurt he at all .
' you do not expect I , eh ? ' say Oblonsky , get out of the sledge with mud on his nose , cheek , and eyebrow , but beam with cheerfulness and health . ' I have come to see you , that be one thing , ' he say embrace and kiss Levin , ' to get some shooting , that be two , and to sell the Ergushevo forest , that be three . '
' that be grand ! and what a spring we be have !
how do you manage to get here in a sledge ? '
' it would have be bad still on wheel , Constantine Dmitrich , ' say the driver , whom Levin know .
' well , I be very , very glad to see you , ' say Levin with a sincere smile , joyful as a child 's .
he show his guest into the spare bedroom , where Oblonsky 's thing , his bag , a gun in a case , and a satchel with cigar , be also bring , and leave he to wash and change Levin go to the office to give order about the ploughing and the clover .
Agatha Mikhaylovna , always much concerned about the honour of the house , meet he in the hall with question about dinner .
' do just as you please , only be quick , ' he say and go out to see the steward .
when he return , Oblonsky , fresh and clean , with hair brush , and face radiant with smile , be just come out of his room , and they go upstairs together .
' how glad I be to have come to you !
now I shall be able to understand what the mystery you perpetrate here consist of .
but , seriously , I envy you .
what a house , and everything so splendid , so light , so gay ! ' say Oblonsky , forget that it be not always spring and bright weather there , as on that day . ' and your nurse ! quite charming !
a pretty house - maid with a little apron would be preferable ; but with your severe and monastic style this one be more suitable . '
Oblonsky have much interesting news to tell , and one item of special interest to Levin be that his brother , Sergius Ivanich , intend to come and stay in the country with he that summer .
not a word do Oblonsky say about Kitty or about any of the Shcherbatskys ; he only deliver greeting from his wife .
Levin be grateful to he for his delicacy and be very glad of his visit .
as usual during his solitude a mass of thought and feeling he could not express to those around have collect in his mind , and now he pour out to Oblonsky the poetic joy of spring , his failure , his plan concern the estate , his thought and remark about the book he have read , and especially the idea of his own book , the basis of which , though he do not notice it himself , be a criticism of all previous work on agriculture .
Oblonsky , always pleasant and quick at understand everything from a hint , be specially pleasant on this visit ; there be a new trait in he which Levin notice and be flatter by – a kind of respect and a sort of tenderness toward he .
the effort of Agatha Mikhaylovna and the cook to make the dinner specially nice result only in both the hungry friend sit down to a snack and have to appease their hunger with hor d'oeuvre of bread and butter , smoke goose , and pickled mushroom , and in Levin 's order the soup to be serve without wait for the pasty with which the cook intend to astonish the visitor .
but Oblonsky , though use to very different dinner , find everything delicious ; the herb beer , the bread and butter , and especially the smoke goose and pickled mushroom , the nettle soup and the fowl with melt - butter sauce , the crimean white wine – everything be delicious , everything be excellent .
' splendid , splendid ! ' he say , light a thick cigarette after the joint ' I seem to have come to you as one land from a noisy steamer on to a peaceful shore .
so you maintain that the labourer should be study as one of the factor which should decide the choice of agricultural method ?
you know I be quite an outsider in these matter , but I should think this theory and its application ought to influence the labourer too . '
' yes , but wait a bit , I be not talk about political economy but about the science of agriculture .
it should resemble the natural science and should examine exist phenomenon , include the labourer with his economic and ethnographic ... '
at that moment Agatha Mikhaylovna come in with some jam .
' ah , Agatha Mikhaylovna , ' say Oblonsky , kiss the tip of his plump finger ; ' what smoke goose you have , what herb brandy ! ...
but what d'you think , Constantine , be it not time ? ' he add .
Levin glance out of the window at the sun which be set behind the bare tree of the forest .
' high time , high time ! Kuzma , tell they to harness the trap , ' he say , and run downstairs .
Oblonsky go down and himself carefully take the canvas cover off the varnished case , open it , and set to work to put together his valuable gun , which be of the new type .
Kuzma , already scent a substantial tip , do not leave Oblonsky for a moment . he put on his stocking and his boot for he , and Oblonsky willingly allow he to do so .
' constantine , please leave word that if the dealer Ryabinin come ( I tell he to come here to - day ) they should ask he in and let he wait . '
' be you sell the forest to Ryabinin ? '
' yes . do you know he ? '
' of course I know he .
I have have dealing with he positively and finally . '
Oblonsky laugh .
' positively and finally ' be the dealer 's favourite word .
' yes , he do speak very funnily .
she know where the master be go , ' he add , pat Laska , who be whine and jump round Levin , now lick his hand , now his boot and his gun .
the trap be stand at the door when they go out .
' I tell they to harness though it be not far , but if you like we can walk ? '
' no , let we drive , ' say Oblonsky , step up into the trap . '
he sit down , wrap a rug round his leg , and light a cigar . ' how be it you do not smoke . ?
a cigar be such a ... not exactly a pleasure , but the crown and sign of pleasure .
ah , this be life !
how delightful !
this be how I should like to live . '
' but who prevent you ? ' Levin remark , smile .
' no – you be a lucky fellow !
you have get all you be fond of .
you like horse – you have they ; hound – you have they ; shoot – you get it ; farming – you get it too . '
' perhaps it be because I be glad of what I get , and do not grieve about what I have not , ' say Levin , think of Kitty .
Oblonsky understand and look at he but say nothing .
Levin be grateful to Oblonsky because , with his usual tact , notice that Levin be afraid of talk about the Shcherbatskys , he avoid mention they ; but now Levin want to find out about the matter that torment he , and yet fear to speak of it .
' well , and how be your affair ? ' he ask , recollect how wrong it be of he to be think only of his own concern .
Oblonsky 's eye begin to glitter merrily .
' but you do not admit that one may want a roll while one get regular ration , you consider it a crime ; and I do not believe in life without love , ' he answer , understand Levin 's question in his own way . ' how can I help it ?
I be make that way . and really so little harm be do to anyone , and one get so much pleasure ... '
' be there anything new then ? ' inquire Levin .
' there be !
well , you know Ossian 's type of woman – such as one see in a dream ?
well , there be such woman in reality , and these woman be terrible .
woman , you see , be an object of such a kind that study it as much as you will , it be always quite new . '
' in that case , well not study they . '
' oh , no !
some mathematician have say pleasure lie not in discover truth but in seek it . '
Levin listen in silence , but in spite of all his effort he could not enter into his friend 's soul and understand his feeling , nor the delight of study woman of that kind .
the PLACE where they be go to SHOOT be not far away , by a stream among young aspen tree .
when they have reach the wood Levin get down and lead Oblonsky to the corner of a mossy and marshy glade , already free from snow .
he himself go to a fork birch on the other side and , lean his gun against the fork of the low branch , take off his coat , tighten his girdle , and try whether he could move his arm freely .
the old grey - haired Laska , follow close on his heel , sit down warily in front of he and prick up her ear .
the sun be set behind the forest , and the little birch intersperse among the aspen tree stand out clearly against the evening glow with their droop branch and their swollen bud ready to burst into leaf .
from the thicket , where the snow have not all melt , the water still flow in branching streamlet with a gentle ripple sound .
small bird chirp and now and then fly from tree to tree .
in the interval of profound silence last year 's leave be hear rustle , set in motion by the thawing of the earth and the growth of the grass .
' just fancy !
one can hear and see the grass grow , ' think Levin , as he notice a wet slate - coloured aspen leaf move close to the point of a blade of grass .
he stand listen , and gaze down now on the wet mossy ground , now at the attentive Laska , now at the sea of bare tree - top stretch out before he at the foot of the hill , and now at the darken sky streak with fleecy cloud .
a hawk fly leisurely past , high above the distant forest ; another follow in the same direction and vanish .
in the thicket the bird chirp louder and louder and more eagerly .
a tawny owl hoot near by , and Laska start , take a few careful step , and with her head on one side again listen intently .
a cuckoo call beyond the river .
it call twice in its usual note then hoarsely and hurriedly and get out of time .
' fancy a cuckoo already ! ' say Oblonsky , appear from behind a bush .
' yes , I hear , ' answer Levin , so reluctant to disturb the silence of the wood that his own voice sound unpleasant to he . ' they will not be long now . '
Oblonsky 's figure again disappear behind the bush , and Levin only see the flare of a match , follow by the red glow of a cigarette and a spiral of blue smoke .
click ! click ! Oblonsky cock his gun .
' and what be that scream ? ' he ask , draw Levin 's attention to a long - draw cry like the high - pitch whinny of a colt in play .
' do not you know ?
it be a male hare .
but stop talk !
listen , they be come ! ' Levin almost shout , cock his gun .
they hear a shrill whistle in the distance , and after the two second ' interval so familiar to sportsman , another follow , and then a third , and after the third whistle come a cry .
Levin look to the right and to the left , and there before he against the dull light - blue sky , over the low branch of the aspen top , appear the fly bird .
they be fly straight toward he ; the near sound of their cry – something like the sound make when tightly stretch cloth be steadily tear – seem close to his ear ; the long beak and neck of a bird be quite visible , and just as Levin take aim a red flash come from behind the bush where Oblonsky be stand and the bird descend like an arrow and then flutter up again .
another flash , follow by a report , and the bird , flap its wing as if try to keep up in the air , remain stationary for a moment and then with a heavy thud fall on the swampy ground .
' can I have miss ? ' cry Oblonsky , who could not see through the smoke . ' here it be ! ' answer Levin , point to Laska , who with one ear erect , wag her fluffy , high - arch tail , step slowly as if to prolong the pleasure and seem almost to smile , bring the dead bird to her master . ' well , I be glad you get it , ' say Levin , and while he speak he be already experience a feeling of envy at not having kill the bird himself .
' a wretched miss with the right barrel , ' reply Oblonsky , reloading . ' hush ... come ! '
indeed , they hear two shrill whistle quickly follow each other .
two snipe , playing and race one another , whistle but not cry , fly almost over the sportsman 's head .
then there be four report , the bird take a swift turn like swallow and vanish from sight .
the shooting be splendid .
Oblonsky bring down two more bird , and Levin bring down two , of which one be not recover .
it begin to get dark .
through the young birch , Venus bright and silvery , be already shine with her delicate glitter low down in the west and high up in the east flicker the red fire of the dim Arcturus .
above his head Levin find , and again lose , star of the Great Bear .
the snipe have cease fly , but Levin decide to stay until Venus , which he could see underneath a branch , should rise above it [ Tolstoy seem to have make a slip .
be in the west Venus would be set , not rise . ] and all the star of the Great Bear should be visible .
Venus have rise above the branch and the car of the Great Bear as well as its shaft show clearly against the dark blue sky , but he still wait .
' be it not time to go ? ' ask Oblonsky .
it be quite quiet in the wood , not a bird stir . ' let us stay a little long , ' answer Levin .
' as you please . '
they be now stand some fifteen yard apart .
' Stephen ! ' say Levin suddenly and unexpectedly ' why do not you tell I whether your sister - in - law be marry , or when she will be ? '
Levin feel so strong and calm that he think the answer , whatever it might be , could not agitate he , but he do not at all expect the reply Oblonsky give he .
' she have not think , and be not think , of getting marry , but she be very ill and the doctor have send she abroad .
they be even afraid for her life . '
' you do not mean it ! ' exclaim Levin . ' very ill ?
what be the matter with she ?
how do she ? ... '
while they be talk Laska , prick her ear , keep look up at the sky and then reproachfully at they .
' what a time they have choose to talk , ' think she . ' and there it comes fly ...
just so , here it be .
they will miss it ... '
but at that moment both man hear a shrill whistle that seem to smite on their ear ; they both seize their gun , and there be two flash and two report at the same moment .
the woodcock that be fly high up instantly fold its wing and fall into the thicket , bend down the thin young shoot .
' that be good !
it belong to both ! ' cry Levin , and run into the thicket with Laska to look for the bird .
' oh ! but there be something unpleasant ! ' he think . ' yes , of course , Kitty be ill !
but what can I do ? I be very sorry , ' he think .
' find ? good dog ! ' he say , take the warm bird from Laska 's mouth and put it into his well - fill game - bag . ' we 've find it , Stephen ! ' he shout .
ON their way HOME Levin inquire the particular of Kitty 's illness and of the Shcherbatskys ' plan , and though he would have be ashamed to confess it , what he hear be agreeable to he .
it be agreeable because there be still hope for he , and even more because she be suffer , she who have make he suffer so much .
but when Oblonsky begin to speak of what cause Kitty 's illness and to mention Vronsky 's name , Levin interrupt he :
' I have no right whatever to know such family detail and frankly I be not interested in they either . '
Oblonsky give a scarcely perceptible smile on notice the quick change , so familiar to he , in Levin 's face , which become as gloomy as it have be bright a moment before .
' have you finally settle with Ryabinin about the forest ? ' ask Levin .
' yes , I have .
I be get a splendid price for it : thirty - eight thousand rouble ; eight at once , and the rest to be pay within six year .
I have be bother about it a long time .
no one would give more . '
' the fact be you be give the forest away , ' say Levin moodily .
' why give away ? ' say Oblonsky with a good - natured smile , know well that everything would now seem wrong to Levin .
' because the forest be worth at least five hundred rouble a desyatina , ' reply Levin .
' oh , you country gentleman ! ' say Oblonsky jokingly . ' and your tone of contempt for we poor townfolk ! ...
but when it come to get business do , we do it well than anyone .
believe I , I have reckon it all out , ' continue he , ' and have sell the forest so well that I be afraid he may change his mind .
you know it be not timber but , for the most part , only fit for fuel , ' say he , hope by this remark finally to convince Levin of the injustice of his suspicion .
' and it will not yield more than ten sazhen of wood to the desyatina ... and he be pay I at the rate of two hundred rouble . '
Levin smile contemptuously .
' I know this manner , ' he think , ' not his only , but all townsman 's , who visit the country two or three time in ten year ; get hold of two or three expression , use they in and out of season and be firmly convinced they know everything .
" timber , " and " yield ten sazhen . "
he use these word but understand nothing about the business . '
' I should not try to teach you the thing you scribble about at your office , ' he say , ' but in case of need would come to you for advice about they , but you be firmly convinced that you understand all this forest lore .
it be not easy !
have you count the tree ? '
' how can one count the tree ? ' say Oblonsky , still anxious to dispel his friend 's ill - humour . ' " count grain of sand , " and planet ' ray e'en though a lofty mind be able ... " '
' well , Ryabinin 's lofty mind be able to do it .
and no dealer will ever buy without first counting , unless the forest be give to he for nothing , as you be do .
I know your forest .
I go shoot there every year , and it be worth five hundred rouble a desyatina cash down and he be pay you two hundred on long term .
that mean that you have make he a present of about thirty thousand rouble . '
' come , do not get so carry away , ' say Oblonsky piteously . ' why do no one offer more ? '
' because he and the other dealer be in league , and he have buy they off .
I have have dealing with they all , and I know they .
they be not genuine dealer , but shark .
he would not consider a deal which would bring he in ten or fifteen per cent ; he wait till he can buy at a fifth of the value . '
' oh , come !
you be down in the dump to - day . '
' not at all , ' say Levin gloomily , just as they drive up to the house .
at the porch stand a little cart strongly bind with leather and iron , and to the cart be harness a well - fed horse with broad , tightly - stretch strap .
in the cart sit Ryabinin 's clerk ( who also perform a coachman 's duty ) , his skin tightly stretch over his full - blooded face and his belt draw tight .
Ryabinin himself be already in the house and meet the two friend in the hall .
he be a tall , spare , middle - aged man , with a moustache , a prominent shaven chin , and prominent dim eye .
he wear a long - skirt blue coat with button very low down at the back , high boot draw quite straight over the calf of his leg and crinkle round the ankle , and over they he have on a pair of large golosh .
he wipe his face all round with his handkerchief , and smooth his coat , which be already quite in order , smilingly greet the new arrival . he hold out his hand to Oblonsky as if he be try to catch something .
' oh , so you have come , ' say Oblonsky take his hand . ' that be right ! '
' I dared not disobey your Excellency 's command , though the road be quite too bad .
I have literally have to walk all the way , but I have arrive in time ... '
' Constantine Dmitrich , my respect to you ! ' he say turn to Levin and try to catch his hand too .
but Levin , frown , pretend not to see the hand , and begin take the snipe out of the game - bag . ' you have be pleased to amuse yourself with shooting ?
what kind of bird may that be ? ' add Ryabinin , look contemptuously at the snipe . ' something tasty ? ' and he shake his head disapprovingly as if much doubting whether this game be worth the candle .
' would you like to go into my study ? ' say Levin , frown moodily , and address Oblonsky in French . ' go into the study , you can talk thing over there . '
' that would do very well , – or wherever you like , ' remark Ryabinin with contemptuous dignity , as if to show they that though other might find it difficult to know how to behave with different people , yet for he no difficulty of any kind could ever exist .
on enter the study Ryabinin look round by force of habit as though to find the icon , but after find it he do not cross himself .
he glance at the book cupboard and book - shelf with the same look of doubt as he have bestow on the snipe , smile contemptuously , and again shake his head disapprovingly , decidedly refuse to admit that this game could be worth the candle .
' well , have you bring the money ? ' ask Oblonsky . ' take a seat . '
' there will not be any difficulty about the money .
I 've come to see you and to talk matter over . '
' talk what matter over ?
but do take a seat . '
' I can do that , ' say Ryabinin , sit down and put his arm on the back of his chair in a most uncomfortable way . ' you must let I off something , Prince .
you be wrong I .
as to the money , it be all ready to the last kopek .
there will be no delay about the money . '
Levin , who have be put away his gun in a cupboard , be just go out of the door , but on hear the dealer 's word he stop .
' as it be you be get the forest for next to nothing , ' he say . ' he come to I too late , else I would have fix the price . '
Ryabinin rise and smile silently , survey Levin from his foot to his head .
' he be very close , be Constantine Dmitrich , ' he say , address Oblonsky with a smile . ' it be absolutely impossible to buy anything of he .
I 've be bargain with he for wheat and offer a good price . '
' why should I give you what be mine for nothing ?
I have not find it on the ground nor steal it . '
' oh dear no , nowadays it be quite impossible to steal .
absolutely everything nowadays go before a jury , everything be judge honourably , there be no possibility of steal .
we speak honestly .
it be too much for the forest , there be no make any profit on it .
I be ask to have something knock off , if only a trifle . '
' well , have you settle the business or not ?
if you have , there be no use bargaining , but if not , ' say Levin , ' I will buy the forest myself . '
the smile vanish from Ryabinin 's face , which assume a hawk - like , rapacious , and cruel expression .
with his bony finger he rapidly unfasten his coat , expose his braided shirt , the brass button of his waistcoat , and a watch - chain , and quickly take out a thick old pocket - book .
' if you please , the forest be mine , ' he say , rapidly cross himself and hold out his hand . ' take your money , the forest be mine .
that be the way Ryabinin do business , no fussing about kopeks , ' he say , frown and flourish his pocket - book .
' if I be you I should not be in a hurry to take it , ' remark Levin .
' what d'you mean ? ' say Oblonsky with surprise . ' why , I 've give my word . '
Levin go out and slam the door .
Ryabinin look at it and smile , shake his head .
' that be all his youthfulness , his absolute childishness .
why , I be make this purchase , believe I , just for the honour and glory of the thing , so that it should be Ryabinin and not another that have buy Oblonsky 's forest .
but it be still a question whether by God 's mercy I can make a profit .
believe I , before God !
please , sir , the agreement must be write ... '
an hour later the dealer ; with his coat well lap over , the hook of his overcoat carefully fasten , and with the agreement in his pocket , seat himself in his little cart and drive home .
' oh , these gentlefolks ! ' he remark to his clerk while hook up the leather apron of the cart , ' regular object ! '
" that be so , " respond the clerk , hand he the rein and button the leather apron . " but I can congratulate you on the purchase , Mihail Ignatitch ? "
' well , well ... '
OBLONSKY WENT UPSTAIRS , his pocket bulge with the treasury - bill payable in three month ' time with which Ryabinin have pay he .
the forest transaction be complete , he have the money in his pocket , the shooting have be fine , Oblonsky be in the good of spirit , and therefore all the more anxious to dispel Levin 's ill - humour .
he want to finish the day at supper as pleasantly as he have begin it .
Levin really be in a bad humour , and in spite of his desire to behave kindly and amiably to his charming guest he could not master himself .
the intoxication of the news that Kitty be not married be begin little by little to take effect on he .
Kitty be unmarried and ill , and ill for love of the man who have slight she .
this insult seem to fall upon he .
Vronsky have slight she and she have slight he , Levin .
consequently Vronsky have a right to despise he and be therefore his enemy .
but Levin do not think all this .
he dimly feel that there be something insulting to he in the affair , and be angry not with what have upset he but with everything that present itself to he .
the stupid sale of the forest , the swindle Oblonsky have fall a prey to , which have be perpetrate in his house , irritate he .
' well , have you finish ? ' he say when he meet Oblonsky upstairs . ' will you have some supper ? '
' I will not say no .
what an appetite I get in the country , wonderful !
why do you not offer Ryabinin something to eat ? '
' let he go to the devil ! '
' well , really , how you treat he ! ' say Oblonsky . ' you do not even give he your hand .
why not shake hand with he ? '
' because I do not shake hand with the footman , and the footman be a hundred time well than he . '
' what a reactionary you really be !
what about merge the class ? ' say Oblonsky .
' let those who like it merge to their heart ' content , but it sicken I . '
' I see you be quite a reactionary . '
' I have really never consider what I be .
I be Constantine Levin , that be all . '
' and Constantine Levin be in a very bad temper , ' say Oblonsky , smile .
' yes , I be in a bad temper , and do you know why ?
because , excuse I , of your stupid sale . '
Oblonsky wrinkle his face good - naturedly , like an innocent man who be be hurt and interfere with .
' oh do not ! ' he say . ' when have a man ever sell anything without be tell immediately after that it be worth much more ?
but while he be try to sell nobody offer he more ...
no , I see you have a grudge against that unfortunate Ryabinin . '
' maybe I have .
and do you know why ?
you will again call I a reactionary or some other dreadful name , but all the same it vex and hurt I to see on all side the impoverishment of the noblesse , to which I too belong and to which , in spite of the merging of the class , I be very glad to belong ...
and impoverish not from extravagance . that would not matter so much : to spend like a nobleman be their business – only the noblesse know how to do it .
at present the peasant around here be buy land – that do not pain I .
the squire do nothing , the peasant work and squeeze out the idler .
that be as it should be and I be very glad on the peasant 's account .
but it hurt I to see this impoverishment as a result of , – shall I call it simplicity ?
here a polish leaseholder buy for half its value the splendid estate of a lady who live in Nice .
there land that be worth ten rouble a desyatina be lease to a merchant for one rouble .
and now you , without any reason , have present that scamp with thirty thousand rouble . '
' then what do you want ? be one to count every tree ? '
' certainly count they !
you have not count they but Ryabinin have !
Ryabinin 's child will have the mean to live and get an education , while yours may not have ! '
' well , forgive I , but there be something petty in all this counting .
we have our occupation and they have theirs , and they have to make a profit .
anyway the thing be do and there be an end to it .
and here come the fried egg , just the way I like they well .
and Agatha Mikhaylovna will give we some of that excellent herb brandy ... '
Oblonsky sit down to table and begin joke with Agatha Mikhaylovna , assure she that it be long since he have have such a dinner and supper as that day .
' well , you appreciate it at least , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna ; ' but Constantine Dmitrich , whatever one give he , if it be only a crust of bread , would just eat it and go away . '
try as Levin would to control himself , he remain morose and silent .
there be one question he want to put to Oblonsky , but could not bring himself to ask , nor could he find the form to put it in or the moment to ask it .
when Oblonsky have go down to his room and , after again washing , have put on his frilled nightshirt and get into bed , Levin still linger in his room talk about various try and unable to ask what he want to know .
' what wonderful soap they make ! ' he say , examine and unwrap a cake of scented soap Agatha Mikhaylovna have prepare for the visitor , but which Oblonsky have not use . ' just look , it be quite a work of art . '
' yes , yes , there be all sort of improvement in everything now , ' say Oblonsky with a moist and beautiful yawn . ' in the theatre for instance and all place of amusement ... oh , oh , oh ! ' he yawn . ' electric light everywhere . oh , oh ! '
' yes , electric light , ' say Levin .
' yes , by the by , where be Vronsky now ? ' he ask , suddenly put down the soap .
' vronsky ? ' say Oblonsky , cease to yawn . ' he be in Petersburg .
he leave soon after you do , and have not be in Moscow once since then .
and do you know , Constantine , I will tell you quite frankly , ' he say , lean his elbow on the table by his bed and support on his hand his good - look , rosy face with its glitter , kind , and sleepy eye , ' it be your own fault .
you be frightened of a rival .
but , as I tell you then , I do not know who have the well chance .
why do you not make a dash for it ?
I tell you at the time that ... ' he yawn , but only with his jaw , without open his mouth .
' do he , or do he not know that I propose ? ' think Levin , look at he . ' yes , there be something sly and diplomatic in his face , ' and feel himself blush , he gaze in silence straight into Oblonsky 's eye .
' if there be anything on her side at that time , it be only the eternal attraction , ' continue Oblonsky . ' you know his be a perfect aristocrat and his future position in Society have an effect , not on she but on her mother . '
Levin frown .
the insult of the refusal he have have to face burn in his heart like a fresh , newly - receive wound .
but he be at home and the wall of home be helpful .
' wait , wait , ' he begin , interrupt Oblonsky . ' you talk of his be an aristocrat .
but I should like to ask you what be Vronsky 's or anyone else 's aristocracy that I should be slight because of it ?
you consider Vronsky an aristocrat . I do not .
a man whose father crawl up from nothing by intrigue and whose mother have have relation with heaven know whom ...
no , pardon I , I consider myself and people like I aristocrat : people who can point back to three or four honourable generation of their family , all with a high standard of education ( talent and intelligence be a different matter ) , who have never cringe before anyone , never depend on anyone , but have live as my father and my grandfather do .
I know many such .
you consider it mean for I to count the tree in my wood while you give Ryabinin thirty thousand rouble ; but you will receive a government grant and I do not know what other reward , and I sha not , so I value what be mine by birth and labour ...
we – and not those who only manage to exist by the bounty of the mighty of this world , and who can be buy for a piece of silver – be the aristocrat . '
' but whom be you drive at ?
I agree with you , ' say Oblonsky sincerely and cheerfully , though he feel that Levin rank he with those who could be buy for silver .
Levin 's vehemence sincerely please he . ' whom be you drive at ?
though much of what you say be not true of Vronsky , I be not speak about that .
I want to tell you candidly that if I be you , I would come to Moscow now with I , and ... '
' no ... I do not know if you know it or not and I do not care , but I will tell you : I propose and be refuse , and your sister - in - law ( Catherine Alexandrovna ) be now only a painful and humiliating memory to I . '
what nonsense ! '
' but do not let we talk about it !
forgive I , please , if I have be rude to you , ' say Levin .
now that he have speak out he become once more as he have be in the morning . ' you be not angry with I , Steve ?
please do not be angry , ' he say smile , and take his hand .
' oh no , not at all ! there be nothing to be angry about .
I be glad we have have this explanation .
and do you know , the shooting in the early morning be often very good .
should we not go ?
I would not sleep again after it but go straight from there to the station ? '
' a capital idea ! '
THOUGH VRONSKY 's whole INNER life be absorb by his passion , his external life run unalterably and inevitably along its former customary rail of social and regimental connection and interest .
the interest of the regiment occupy an important place in his life , because he be fond of his regiment and still more because the regiment be fond of he .
not only be they fond of he , they respect he too and be proud of he : proud that this man , with his enormous wealth and excellent education and ability , to whom the road to success of all kind gratify to ambition or vanity lie open , have disregard all this , and of all life 's interest have near to his heart those of his regiment and his comrade .
Vronsky be aware of this attitude of his comrade toward he , and besides like the life feel bind to justify their view of he .
it go without say that he speak to none of they about his love , nor do he betray himself even in the wild drinking - bout ( indeed , he never drink so as to lose all self - control ) . and he silence any of his thoughtless comrade who try to hint at the liaison .
but in spite of this , his love affair be know to all the town : everybody guess more or less correctly what his relation with Anna Karenina be . Most of the young man envy he just on account of what be most try in the affair , namely Karenin 's high rank and the consequent prominence of the affair in Society .
the majority of young woman , who envy Anna and have long be weary of hear her virtue praise , be pleased at what they guess , and only wait to be sure that public opinion have turn before throw the whole weight of their scorn at she .
they already prepare lump of mud to pelt she with in due time .
Most of the old people and of those highly - place regret this impend social scandal .
Vronsky 's mother , on hearing of the matter , be at first pleased , both because in her opinion nothing give such finish touch to a brilliant young man as an intrigue in the good Society , and also because this Anna Karenina , who have so take her fancy and who have talk so much about her little son , be after all such as the Countess Vronsky expect all handsome and well - breed woman to be .
but latterly she have hear that her son have refuse a post of importance for his career , merely to remain with his regiment and be able to see Anna Karenina , and that exalted person be dissatisfied with he for it , so she change her opinion .
she be also displeased because , from all she hear of it , this affair be not one of those brilliant , graceful , Society liaison which she approve , but a desperate Werther - like passion which might lead he into do something foolish .
she have not see he since his sudden departure from Moscow , and through her eld son she send he word to come and see she .
the eld brother be also dissatisfied with the young .
he do not distinguish what kind of love it be , great or small , passionate or passionless , guilty or pure ( he himself , the father of a family , keep a ballet girl , and be therefore lenient in these matter ): but he know that it be a love affair which displease those whom it be necessary to please , and he therefore disapprove of his brother 's conduct .
besides his military and social interest Vronsky have another one , namely horse , of which he be passionately fond .
that year there be to be an officer ' steeplechase , and Vronsky have put down his name , buy an english thoroughbred mare , and , in spite of his love , be passionately , though restrainedly , concern about the come race .
the two passion do not interfere with one another .
on the contrary he need an occupation and an interest apart from his love , in which to refresh himself and find rest from the impression which agitate he too violently .
ON the day of the KRASNOE SELO RACES Vronsky come early than usual to the regimental mess - room to eat his beefsteak .
it be not necessary for he to train very strictly as his weight be just the regulation eleven - and - a - half stone , but he have to be careful not to get fat and therefore avoid sweet and starchy food .
he sit wait with his elbow on the table and his coat unbuttoned over a white waistcoat , and while wait for the beefsteak he have order he look at the page of a french novel that lie on his plate .
he only look at the book in order not to have to talk to the officer who come in and out of the room while he be think .
he think of Anna , who have promise to meet he after the race .
but he have not see she for three day and , as her husband have return from abroad , he do not know whether she could keep the appointment to - day or not , and he do not know how to find out .
he have see she last at his cousin Betsy 's country house .
he go to the Karenins ' country house * as seldom as possible , but now he mean to go there and be consider how to do it .
' of course I can say that Betsy send I to find out if she will be at the race .
yes , of course I will go , ' he decide , lift his eye from the book , and a vivid sense of the joy of see she make his face radiant .
' send to my house and tell they to harness three horse to the calèche at once , ' he say to the waiter who have bring he a beefsteak on a hot silver plate ; and draw the plate near to he he begin to eat .
from , the neighbouring billiard - room come the click of ball , talk , and laughter .
two officer appear at the entrance door : one with a weak thin face , a young officer who have just join the regiment from the Cadet Corps ; the other a plump old officer with a bracelet on his arm and small eye sink in a bloated face .
Vronsky glance at they , frown , and , as if he have not notice they , turn his eye on his book and begin to eat and read at the same time .
' what ? fortify yourself for your job ? ' ask the plump officer take a seat beside he .
' as you see , ' say Vronsky , frown and wipe his mouth , without look at the speaker .
' not afraid of get fat ? ' say the other , turn a chair round for the young officer .
' what ? ' say Vronsky frowning , make a grimace of disgust and show his regular tooth .
' not afraid of get fat ? '
' waiter , sherry ! ' say Vronsky without reply , and move his book to the other side of his plate he continue to read .
the plump officer take the wine - list and turn to the young one . ' you choose what we shall drink , ' say he , hand he the list and look at he .
' suppose we have some Rhine wine , ' say the young one , turn his eye timidly to Vronsky while his finger try to catch hold of his just - bud moustache .
see that Vronsky do not turn round , he rise .
' let we go into the billiard - room , ' he say .
the plump officer get up obediently and they make their way toward the door .
at that moment Captain Yashvin , a tall man with a fine figure , enter the room , and having give a contemptuous backward nod to the two officer he come up to Vronsky .
' ah , here he be ! ' he exclaim , and with his big hand give Vronsky a sharp slap on his shoulder - strap .
Vronsky look up angrily , but his face brighten at once into its characteristic look of quiet , firm kindliness .
' that be wise , Alexis , ' say the captain in a loud baritone , ' eat now , and drink one small glass . '
' I do not want to eat . '
' there be the inseparables , ' add Yashvin , glance ironically at the two officer who be just go out of the room .
he sit down beside Vronsky , and his leg , encase in tight riding - breech , be too long for the size of the chair , bent at a sharp angle at the hip and knee - joint .
' why do you not come to the Krasnensky Theatre last night ? '
' I stay late at the Tverskoys . '
' ah ' say Yashvin .
Yashvin , a gambler , a rake , a man not merely without principle but with bad principle , be Vronsky 's good friend in the regiment .
Vronsky like he both for his extraordinary physical strength , which he chiefly demonstrate by his ability to drink like a fish and go without sleep without its make any difference to he , and for the great mental power which be apparent in his relation with his command officer and comrade , who fear and respect he , and in his card - playing when he stake ten of thousand of rouble and , in spite of what he drink , always with such skill and decision that he be consider the good player in the English Club .
Vronsky respect and like Yashvin , particularly because he feel that the latter like he , not for his name and money but for himself .
among all the people Vronsky know Yashvin be the only one to whom he would have like to talk about his love .
he feel that Yashvin , though apparently despise all emotion , be the only one who could understand the power of the passion that now fill his whole life .
besides , he feel sure that Yashvin certainly find no pleasure in gossip and scandal , and understand his feeling in the right way – that is , know and believe that this love be not a joke or an amusement , but something more serious and important .
Vronsky do not talk to he of his love , but be aware that he know all about it and understand it rightly , and it be pleasant to he to read this in Yashvin 's eye .
' ah , yes ! ' he say when he hear that Vronsky have be at the Tverskoys ; his black eye sparkle and he begin twist his left moustache round into his mouth – a bad habit he have .
' well , and what be you do last night ?
win ? ' ask Vronsky .
' eight thousand .
but three of they doubtful . I do not expect he will pay up . '
' well , then , you can afford to lose on I , ' say Vronsky , laugh .
( Yashvin have stake heavily on Vronsky . )
' I be sure not to lose . Makhotin be the only dangerous one . '
the conversation turn to the forecast of the day 's race , the only subject Vronsky could now think about .
' let we go . I have finish , ' say Vronsky , and he rise and move toward the door .
Yashvin rise also and stretch his great leg and long back .
' it be too early for I to dine , but I must have a drink . I will come in a minute . Hallo , wine ! ' he cry in his loud voice , which be so famous at drill , and here make the glass tremble . ' no , I do not want any , ' he shout again . ' you be go home and I will go with you . '
and he and Vronsky go out together .
vronsky have his quarter in a roomy , clean , finnish peasant cottage , divide in two by a partition .
here in camp also , Petritsky live with he .
Petritsky be asleep when Vronsky and Yashvin enter .
' get up , you 've sleep enough ! ' say Yashvin , step behind the partition and shake by the shoulder the dishevelled Petritsky , who lie with his nose bury in the pillow .
Petritsky suddenly spring to his knee and look round .
' your brother have be here , ' he say to Vronsky . ' he wake I up , devil take he ! ... he say he would come back . ' and draw up his blanket he throw himself back on his pillow . ' leave I alone , Yashvin ! ' he say angrily to Yashvin , who be pull the blanket off he . ' leave off ! ' he turn and open his eye . ' you have well tell I what to drink ! I 've such a horrid taste in my mouth that ... '
' vodka be well than anything , ' say Yashvin in his base voice . ' tereshchenko ! vodka and pickled cucumber for your master ! ' he shout , evidently enjoy the sound of his own voice .
' Vodka , you think , eh ? ' ask Petritsky , make a face and rub his eye .
' and will you have a drink ?
let we have a drink together ! vronsky , will you have a drink ? ' say Petritsky , get up and wrap himself to the arm in a rug of tiger - skin pattern .
he go to the partition door , hold up his hand , and begin singe in French , ' " there be a king in Thule ! " Vronsky , will you have a drink ? '
' get away ! ' say Vronsky , as he put on the overcoat his servant have hand he . ' where to now ? ' ask Yashvin . ' here be the horse , ' he add as he see the calèche drive up to the door .
' to the stable , and then I have to go to Bryansky about the horse , ' say Vronsky .
he have really promise to go to Bryansky 's , who live seven mile from Peterhof , and pay he for the horse , and he hope to make time to call there too .
but his friend understand at once that it be not only there that he be go .
Petritsky , still singe , wink his eye and pout as if to say , ' we know what sort of Bryansky it be . '
' mind and do not be late ! ' be all Yashvin say , and to change the subject he ask , ' be my roan do well ? ' look out of the window at the middle horse , which he have sell to Vronsky .
' wait ! ' shout Petritsky to Vronsky , who be already go out . ' your brother leave a letter for you and a note . wait ! where be they ? '
Vronsky stop .
' well , where be they ? '
' where be they ?
that be the question ! ' declaim Petritsky with solemnity , move his finger upwards from his nose .
' come , tell I . this be stupid ! ' say Vronsky , smile .
' I have not light the fire .
they must be somewhere here . '
' enough of this !
where be the letter ? '
' no , really I have forget .
or be it a dream ?
wait , wait .
why get angry ?
if you have empty four bottle a head as we do last night , you would not know where you be lie .
wait a bit , I will remember it directly . '
Petritsky go behind the partition and lie down on his bed .
' wait !
so I lay , and so he stand .
yes , yes , yes ...
here it be ! ' and Petritsky draw the letter from under the mattress where he have put it .
Vronsky take the letter and his brother 's note .
it be just what he have expect : a letter from his mother reproach he for not having come to see she , and a note from his brother say that they must talk thing over .
Vronsky know that it all refer to the same subject .
' what business be it of theirs ? ' think he , and crumple up the letter he push they in between the button of his coat , to be read more attentively on the way .
in the passage he meet two officer , one of his own and one of another regiment .
Vronsky 's quarter be always the haunt of all the officer .
' where be you go ? '
' I have to go to Peterhof . '
' have the mare come from Tsarskoe ? '
' yes , but I have not see she since she come . '
' they say Makhotin 's Gladiator have go lame . '
' nonsense !
but how will you manage to ride through such mud ? ' say the other officer .
' these be the thing to restore I ! ' shout Petritsky on see the new - comer . the orderly stand before he with vodka and pickled cucumber on a tray . ' Yashvin here have order vodka to freshen I up . '
' well , you do give it we last night , ' say one of the new - comer . ' you do not let we sleep all night . '
' oh , but how we finish up ! ' say Petritsky . ' Volkov climb out on to the roof and say he feel melancholy .
I say , " let we have music : a Funeral March ! "
and he fall asleep up there on the roof to the sound of the Funeral March . '
' drink , you must drink some vodka and then some seltzer water with plenty of lemon , ' say Yashvin , stand over Petritsky , like a mother urge her child to take its medicine . ' and after that a little champagne , about ... a small bottle . '
' now that be reasonable !
wait , Vronsky , let we have a drink . '
' no , good - bye , gentleman . I be not drink to - day . '
' why , because of the weight ?
well then , we will drink by ourselves .
let us have seltzer and lemon . '
' vronsky ! ' shout some one as Vronsky be already leave .
' what ? '
' you should have your hair cut ; it will be too heavy , especially on the top . '
Vronsky be really begin prematurely to get a little bald .
he laugh merrily , show his compact row of tooth , and draw his cap over the bald patch , go out and get into the calèche .
' to the stable ! ' he say , and be take out the letter to read , but then change his mind , not wish to be upset before examine his horse . ' later will do ! ... '
the TEMPORARY stable , a wooden structure , have be build close to the racecourse , and it be there his mare be to have be bring the day before .
he have not yet be to look at she .
during these last day he have not exercise she himself , but have entrust it to the trainer , and therefore do not in the least know in what condition she have arrive or now be .
hardly have he step out of the calèche before his groom , who have recognize it from a distance , have call out the trainer .
a lean Englishman in top boot and a short jacket , with only a tuft of beard leave under his chin , come to meet he with the awkward gait of a jockey , sway from side to side with his elbow stick out .
' well , how be Frou - Frou ? ' ask Vronsky in English .
' all right , sir , ' come the answer from somewhere inside the man 's throat . ' well not go in , ' he add , touch his cap .
' I have put a muzzle on she , and she be fidgetty . well not go in , it excite the mare . '
' no , I will go in .
I want to have a look at she . '
' come along , ' say the Englishman frown and speak as before without open his mouth . sway his elbow and walk with his loose gait he lead the way .
they enter a little yard in front of the shed .
a smart , well - dress lad in a short and clean jacket , with a broom in his hand , meet they and follow they .
in the shed five horse stand in the horse - box , and Vronsky know that his principal rival , Makhotin 's sixteen - hand chestnut , Gladiator , be to have be bring that day and should be stand there too .
Vronsky be even more anxious to have a look at Gladiator , whom he have never see , than at his own mare ; but he know that horse - racing etiquette not only forbid his see it , but make it improper for he even to ask about it .
as he go along the passage the lad open the second horse - box to the left , and Vronsky catch sight of a big chestnut horse with white leg .
he know it be Gladiator , but like one who avoid see another 's open letter , he turn and go to Frou - Frou 's box .
' here be the horse of Mak ...
Mak ... I never can pronounce his name , ' say the Englishman over his shoulder , point with his black - nail thumb to Gladiator 's box .
' Makhotin 's ?
yes , that be my only serious rival , ' say Vronsky .
' if you be ride he , I would back you , ' say the Englishman .
' Frou - Frou be the braver , but the other be the more powerful horse , ' say Vronsky , smile at the compliment to his riding :
' in a steeplechase everything depend on the riding and on pluck , ' say the Englishman .
Vronsky feel that he not only have enough pluck ( that is , energy and courage ) , but , what be much more important , he be firmly convinced that no one in the world could have more pluck than he have .
' be you quite sure that more training be unnecessary ? '
' quite unnecessary , ' say the Englishman . ' please do not talk loud .
the mare be nervous , ' he add , nod toward the closed horsebox before which they be stand , and from which be hear the trampling of hoof among the straw .
he open the door , and Vronsky enter the box , which be dimly light by one small window .
in the box stand a muzzled dark - bay mare step from foot to foot among the fresh litter .
when he have got use to the dim light of the box , Vronsky again instinctively take in at one comprehensive glance all the point of his favourite mare .
Frou - Frou be of medium size and by no mean free from blemish .
she be slenderly build . her chest , though well arch , be narrow .
her hindquarter taper rather too much , and her leg , especially her hind leg , be perceptibly bow inwards .
neither fore nor hind leg be particularly muscular , but on the other hand she be extremely broad in the girth , now that she be lean from her strict training .
see from the front , her canon bone be very fine and sharp , but unusually wide see sideways .
she appear all the more narrow in build because so deep in the breadth .
but she possess in the high degree a characteristic which make one forget all her defect . this be her thoroughbred quality – the kind of blood that tell , as they say in English .
the muscle , clearly mark beneath the network of sinew , stretch in the fine , mobile skin , which be smooth as satin , seem hard as bone .
her lean head with the prominent , bright , sparkling eye , broaden out to her muzzle with its wide crimson nostril .
her whole appearance , more especially about the head , be spirited yet gentle .
she be one of those creature who seem as if they would certainly speak if only the mechanical construction of their mouth allow they to .
to Vronsky at any rate it seem that she understand all he be feel while look at she .
as soon as Vronsky enter , she draw a deep breath and , turn her prominent eye so that their white become bloodshot , look from the other side of the box at the new - comer , shake her muzzle , and step lightly from foot to foot .
' there , you see how nervous she be , ' say the Englishman .
' oh , you darling ! ' say Vronsky , step toward the horse and soothe she .
but the near he come the more nervous she grow .
only when he reach to her head do she suddenly calm down , and the muscle under her fine , delicate coat vibrate .
Vronsky stroke her firm neck , adjust a lock of her mane that have get on to the wrong side of her sharply - define wither and bring his face close to her dilated nostril , delicate as a bat 's wing .
her extended nostril loudly inhale and exhale her breath , and she set back one of her finely - point ear with a start , and stretch out her black firm lip toward Vronsky , as if wish to catch hold of his sleeve .
but remember her muzzle she give it a jerk , and again begin step from one of her finely chisel foot to the other .
' be quiet , darling , be quiet ! ' he say , again stroke her flank , and leave the box with a joyful conviction that the horse be in the very good condition .
the mare 's excitement have communicate itself to Vronsky . he feel that the blood be rush to his heart , and that he , like the horse , wish to move and to bite ; it be both frightening and joyful .
' well then , I rely on you , ' say Vronsky to the Englishman . ' you will be on the spot at half - past six . '
' all right , ' say the Englishman . ' and where be you go , my lord ? ' he ask unexpectedly , address he as ' my lord , ' which he hardly ever do .
Vronsky raise his head in amazement and look as he know how to , not into the Englishman 's eye but at his forehead , surprise at the boldness of the question .
but realize that the Englishman in ask the question regard he not as an employer , but as a jockey , he reply :
' I have to see Bryansky , but I shall be home in an hour . '
' how often have I be ask that question to - day ? ' he think , and blush , a thing he rarely do .
the Englishman look at he attentively and , as if he know where he be go , add :
' the chief thing before a race be to keep cool : do not be put out or upset . '
' all right , ' say Vronsky smile , and jump into the calèche , he tell the coachman to drive to Peterhof .
he have not go many yard before the cloud , which have be threaten since morning , break , and there be a downpour of rain .
' this be bad ! ' think Vronsky , raise the hood of the calèche . ' it be muddy before , but now it will be a swamp . '
sit alone in the closed chalice he draw out his mother 's letter and his brother 's note and read they through .
yes , it be the same thing over and over again .
they all , his mother and his brother and everybody , consider it necessary to interfere with his intimate affair .
this interference rouse he to anger , a feeling he rarely experience .
' what business be it of theirs ?
why do everybody consider it his duty to look after I ?
and why do they bother I ?
because they see it be something they can not understand .
if it be an ordinary empty Society intrigue they would let I alone .
they feel that it be something different , that it be not a game , and that this woman be dear to I than life .
that be incomprehensible , and therefore it vex they .
whatever our fate be or may be , we have make it and do not complain of it , ' he say , join Anna and himself in the word ' we . ' ' no , they need must teach we how to live .
they have no conception of what happiness be , and they do not know that without love there be no happiness or unhappiness for we , for there would be no life , ' he think .
he be angry with everybody for their interference , just because he feel in his soul that they be right .
he feel that the love that unite he with Anna be not momentary infatuation , which would pass , as Society intrigue do , without leave any trace in the life of the one or the other except pleasant or disagreeable memory .
he feel all the torment of his and her position , all the difficulty they be surround by in consequence of their station in life , which expose they to the eye of the whole world , oblige they to hide their love , to lie and deceive , and again to lie and deceive , to scheme and constantly think about other while the passion that bind they be so strong that they both forget everything but their love .
the recollection of incident often repeat rise vividly in his mind , where lie and deception revolt to his nature have be necessary . he remember most vividly have more than once notice her feeling of shame at the necessity for this deception and lying .
and he experience a strange feeling which since his union with Anna sometimes overcome he .
it be a feeling of revulsion against something , against Karenin , or against himself or against the whole world – he hardly know which .
but he always drive away this strange feeling .
and now too , having give himself a shake , he continue the current of his thought :
' yes , formerly she be unhappy , but proud and calm ; but now she can not be calm and dignified , though she still seem so .
yes , this must be bring to an end , ' he decide .
and for the first time the clear idea occur to he that it be necessary to put an end to all this falsehood , and the soon the well .
' throw up everything and let we two conceal ourselves somewhere alone with our love , ' say he to himself .
the DOWNPOUR do not last long , and as Vronsky approach his destination – with his shaft - horse at full trot pull alone , and the trace - horse gallop over the mud with the trace loose – the sun appear again , the roof of the house and the old lime tree in the garden on both side glitter with the moisture , and the water drip merrily from the branch and run down from the roof .
he no long think about the shower spoil the racecourse , but be glad , because , thank to the rain , he be sure to find Anna at home and alone , for he know that Karenin , who have recently return from a watering - place abroad , have not move from Petersburg .
hope to find she alone , Vronsky , as usual , to attract less attention , alight before cross the little bridge that lead to the house and walk on .
he do not go straight to the entrance from the street but pass through the yard .
' have your master return ? ' he ask a gardener .
' no , sir .
the mistress be at home .
go in at the front door ; the servant be there and will open it , ' reply the man .
' no , I will go through the garden . '
having make sure that she be alone , and wish to take she by surprise ( he have not promise to come that day and she would certainly not expect he to come before the race ) , he go , hold up his sword and step carefully along the sand - strew flower - border path to the verandah face the garden .
Vronsky have now forget all his thought on the way , about the hardness and difficulty of his situation .
he only think that he would see she immediately , not merely in fancy , but alive , all of she – as she be in reality .
he be already ascend the shallow step of the verandah , step on the whole of his foot so as not to make a noise , when he suddenly remember what he be always forget , the most painful part of his relation with she , namely her son , with his questioning and , as it seem to Vronsky , inimical look .
that boy be a more frequent hindrance to their relation than anyone else .
when he be present neither Vronsky nor Anna allow themselves to speak about anything they could not have mention to every one or even to hint at thing the boy would not have understand .
they have not arrange this , but it have come about of itself .
they would have consider it unworthy of themselves to deceive that child .
in his presence they talk as acquaintance .
yet despite this caution Vronsky often notice the child 's attentive and perplexed gaze fix upon he and a strange timidity and unevenness – now caress , now cold and bashful – in the boy 's manner toward he .
it be as if the child feel that between that man and his mother there be some important relation which he could not understand .
and the boy really feel that he could not understand this relation . he try but could not make out what he ought to feel toward this man .
with a child 's sensitiveness to indication of feeling , he clearly see that his father , his governess , and his nurse all not only dislike Vronsky but regard he with fear and loathing , though they say nothing about he , while his mother regard he as her good friend .
' what do it mean ?
who be he ?
how should I love he ?
if I do not understand , it be my fault , I be a silly or a bad boy , ' think the child , and that be the cause of his testing , questioning , and to some extent hostile expression and of the shyness and fitfulness Vronsky find so irksome .
the presence of that child always arouse in Vronsky that strange feeling of unreasoning revulsion which have of late come to he .
it evoke both in Vronsky and in Anna a feeling such as a sailor might have who see by the compass that the direction in which he be swiftly sail diverge widely from the right course but be quite unable to stop , and feel that every moment be take he far and far astray , and that to acknowledge to himself that he be diverge from the right direction be tantamount to acknowledge that he be lose .
this child with his naive outlook on life be the compass which show they their degree of divergence from what they know , but would not recognize , as the right course .
this time Serezha be not at home , and Anna be quite alone , sit on the verandah wait for the return of her son , who have go for a walk and have be catch in the rain .
she have send a man and a maidservant to look for he and sat wait .
she wear a white dress trim with wide embroidery , and as she sit in a corner of the verandah behind some plant , do not hear Vronsky come .
bow her curly head she press her forehead against a cold watering - can that stand on the balustrade , and both her beautiful hand , with the ring he know so well , be hold the can .
the beauty of her whole figure , her head , her neck , and her arm , always strike Vronsky with new surprise .
he stop , gaze at she with rapture .
but just as he be go to step toward she , she feel his nearness , push away the can , and turn her hot face toward he .
' what be the matter ? '
be not you well ? ' he say in French as he come up to she .
he wish to run toward she , but remember that there might be other near , turn to look at the verandah door and blush , as he always do when he feel that he have reason to fear and to be circumspect .
' no , I be quite well , ' she say , rise and firmly press his outstretched hand . ' I do not expect you . '
' oh , heaven ! what cold hand ! ' he say .
' you frighten I , ' she say . ' I be alone and be expect Serezha . he go for a walk ; they will return this way . '
but though she try to be calm her lip tremble .
' forgive I for come , but I could not let the day pass without see you , ' he continue in French . in russian the word you sound cold and it be dangerous to say thou , she always speak French to she .
' why " forgive " ?
I be so glad ! '
' but you be ill or in trouble , ' he continue without release her hand , but bend over it . ' what be you think about ? '
' always about the same thing , ' she say with a smile .
she speak the truth .
whenever , – at whatever moment , – she be ask what she be think about she could have answer without fail , ' always about my happiness and my unhappiness . '
just now when he enter she be wonder why , for other , Betsy for instance ( of whose secret relation with Tushkevich she know ) , it be all easy , while for she it be so tormenting .
for certain reason this think trouble her more particularly to - day .
she inquire about the race .
Vronsky answer she , and notice that she be excited , in order to distract her thought begin give she in a very matter - of - fact way particular of the preparation for the race .
' shall I tell he or not ? ' she think , look at his calm , caress eye . ' he be so happy , so full of his race , that he will not understand it properly , will not understand all the importance of the event for we . '
' but you have not tell I what you be think about when I come in , ' he say , break off his narration .
she do not answer , but , slightly bow her head , look at he from under her brow questioningly , her eye shine from under their long lash .
her hand , toy with a leaf that she have pull off , tremble .
he notice this , and his face assume that submissive , slavishly - devote expression that have such an effect on Anna .
' I see that something have happen .
how can I be a moment at peace know that you have some sorrow which I be not share ?
tell I , for Heaven 's sake ! ' repeat he entreatingly .
' I can not forgive he if he do not understand all the importance of it .
well not tell he , – why put he to the proof ? ' she think , continue to look at he in the same way and feel that her hand with the leaf be tremble more and more .
' for heaven 's sake ! ' he repeat , take her hand .
' shall I ? '
' yes , yes , yes ... '
' I be pregnant , ' she say softly and slowly .
the leaf in her hand shake still more violently , but she do not move her eye from his face , watch to see how he would take it .
he grow pale , try to say something , but stop , drop her hand , and bow his head .
' yes , he understand its full significance , ' she think , and gratefully press his hand .
but she be mistake in think that he understand the importance of the news as she , a woman , understand it .
it bring on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to – he know not whom ; but at the same time he feel that the crisis he have hope for have now come , that concealment from the husband be no long possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly end .
but , besides this , her physical agitation communicate itself to he .
he give she a look full of emotion , humbly kiss her hand , rise , and begin silently pace up and down the verandah .
' yes , ' he say , resolutely approach she . ' neither you nor I look on our union as an amusement , and now our fate be seal .
we must end ' – he go on , look round – ' this falsehood in which we be live . '
' end it ?
how be we to end it , Alexis ? ' she say softly .
she be quiet now and her face shine with a tender smile .
' by your leave your husband and our unite our life . '
' they be united already , ' she reply in a scarcely audible tone .
' yes , but entirely . '
' but how , Alexis , teach I how ? ' she say with pathetic irony at the inevitability of her position . ' be there any escape from such a position ?
be I not my husband 's wife ? '
' there be a way out of every position .
one have to take a decision , ' he say . ' anything would be well than the condition in which you be live .
do not I see how suffer from everything – Society , your son , and your husband ? '
' oh , but not through my husband , ' she say with natural irony . ' I do not know he and do not think about he .
he do not exist . '
' you be not speak sincerely .
I know you .
you suffer from he too . '
' but he do not even know , ' she say , and suddenly a vivid flush suffuse her face . her cheek , her forehead , and her neck turn red , and tear of shame appear in her eye . ' do not let we speak of he . '
vronsky have try several TIMES before , though never so definitely as now , to lead she on to a discussion of her position , and have always encounter the same superficiality and lightness of judgment with which she now reply to his challenge .
it be as if there be something that she could not , and would not , make clear to herself , or as if , as soon as she begin to speak about this matter , she , the real Anna , withdraw into herself and another woman appear who be strange and alien to he , whom he fear and do not like , and who resist he .
but to - day he decide to speak out .
' whether he know or not , ' say Vronsky in his usual firm , calm tone , ' that be not our business . we can not ...
you can not remain as you be , especially now . '
' what would you have I do ? ' she ask with the same light irony .
she who have so fear that he might take her pregnancy too lightly now felt vex that he deduce therefrom the necessity of do something .
' tell he everything , leave he . '
' very well ; suppose I do so ! ' she say . ' do you know what the result will be ?
I will tell it you all in advance , ' and an evil light come into her eye which a minute before have be so tender . ' -"Ah , you love another and have enter into a guilty union with him?"- ' ( mimic her husband , she lay just such a stress on the word guilty as Karenin himself would have do ) . ' -"i warn you of the consequence from the religious , civil , and family point of view .
you have not listen to I .
now I can not allow my name to be dishonour ... "- ' my name and my son she be go to say but could not jest about her son ... ' -"my name to be dishonour " and something else of that kind , ' she add . ' in short , he will tell I clearly and precisely in his official manner that he can not let I go , but will take what measure he can to prevent a scandal .
and he will do what he say , quietly and accurately .
that be what will happen .
he be not a man , but a machine , and a cruel machine when angry , ' she add , picture Karenin to herself with every detail of his figure and way of speak ,
set against he everything bad she could find in he and forgive he nothing , on account of the terrible fault toward he of which she be guilty . ' but , Anna , ' say Vronsky persuasively and gently , try to pacify she , ' he must be tell , all the same , and afterwards our action will be guide by his attitude . '
' what then , run away ? '
' and why not run away ?
I think it be impossible to continue in this way .
and not on my account , – I see that you suffer . '
' yes , run away , and for I to live as your mistress , ' she say maliciously .
' Anna , ' he murmur with reproachful tenderness .
' yes , ' she continue . ' become your mistress and ruin my ... everything . '
she be again go to say ' son ' but could not utter the word .
Vronsky could not understand how she , with her strong honest nature , could endure this state of deception and not wish to escape from it ; but he do not guess that the chief cause lie in the one word ' son ' which she could not bring herself to utter .
when she think about her son and his future relation with the mother who have leave his father , she be so terrified at what she have do that she do not reason , but woman - like only try to comfort herself with false argument and word in order that everything should remain as before and that she might forget the dreadful question of what would happen to her son .
' I beg you , I entreat you , ' say she suddenly in quite an altered tone , sincerely and tenderly , take he by the hand , ' never to speak to I about that ! '
' but , Anna ... '
' never .
leave it to I .
I know all the degradation , all the horror of my position ; but it be not so easy to settle the matter as you think .
leave it to I and listen to I .
never speak to I about it .
do you promise ? ...
yes , yes , promise ! ... '
' I promise everything , but I can not be at peace , especially after what you have tell I .
I can not be at peace when you be not . '
' I ? ' she say . ' yes , I do suffer sometimes ; but it will pass if you never speak to I about it .
it be only when you speak to I about it that I suffer . '
' I do not understand ... ' say he .
' I know , ' she interrupt he , ' how hard it be for your honest nature to lie and I pity you .
I often think how you have ruin your life because of I . '
' I be just think the same , ' he say ; ' wonder how you could sacrifice everything for my sake .
I can not forgive myself for your unhappiness . '
' I unhappy ? ' she say , draw near to he and gaze at he with a smile of rapturous love . ' I be like a hungry man to whom food have be give .
he may be cold , his clothe may be rag , and he may be ashamed , but he be not unhappy .
I unhappy ?
no , this be my happiness ... '
but she hear the voice of her son approach , and glance quickly round the verandah she rise hurriedly .
her eye kindle with the light Vronsky know so well , and with a rapid motion she raise her lovely hand cover with ring , seize his head , give he a long look , lift her face with parted smile lip , quickly kiss his mouth and both eye , and then push he away .
she be about to go but he hold she back .
' when ? ' he whisper , gaze rapturously at she .
' to - night at one , ' she whisper , and with her quick light step go to meet her son .
Serezha have be catch in the rain in the public garden , and he and his nurse have take shelter in the pavilion .
' well , au revoir , ' she say to Vronsky . ' it will soon be time to start for the race .
Betsy have promise to call for I . '
Vronsky look at his watch and hurry away .
when vronsky looked at his watch on the Karenins ' verandah he be so agitated and so preoccupy that he see the hand and face of the watch without realize the time .
he go to the high road , step carefully over the mud , and make his way to his calèche .
he be so full of his feeling for Anna that he do not consider what o'clock it be or whether he still have time to call on Bryansky .
he only retain , as often happen , the external capacity of memory which indicate what he have decide to do next .
he approach his coachman , who be doze on the box , in the already slant shadow of a large lime tree , look with pleasure at the sway swarm of midget that whirl above the perspiring horse , and having rouse the coachman jump into the calèche and tell he to drive to Bryansky 's .
only after go some five mile do he recollect himself sufficiently to look at his watch and to realize that it be already half - past five , and that he be late .
there be to be several race that day : a life - guard ' race , then an officer ' two - verst race , a four - verst race , and then the one for which he have enter .
he could be in time for his own race , but , if he call on Bryansky first he could only just manage it , and the whole Court would already be at the racecourse .
that be not the correct thing to do .
but he have promise Bryansky to call and therefore he decide to go on , tell the coachman not to spare the horse .
he see Bryansky , stay with he five minute , and drive back at a gallop .
this quick drive soothe he .
all that be depress in his relation with Anna , the indefiniteness that remain after their conversation , escape from his mind . he now think with enjoyment and agitation of the race , and that after all he would be there in time , and occasionally the expectation of that night 's meeting flash brightly in his imagination .
the spirit of the come race overcome he more and more as he drive far and far into their atmosphere and overtake carriage make their way to the course from Petersburg and from outlying country place .
when he reach his quarter he find no one there – they have all go to the race and his valet be wait at the gate .
while he be change his thing , the valet tell he that the second race have already begin and that many gentleman have be to inquire for he , and a lad have run over twice from the stable .
having change without hurry ( he never hurry or lose his self - control ) , Vronsky order the coachman to drive he to the stable .
from there he could see the sea of carriage , pedestrian , and soldier surround the racecourse , and the stand , which be throng with people .
probably the second race be just take place , for as he enter the stable he hear the bell ring .
on his way he meet Makhotin 's white - legged chestnut Gladiator , which in a blue - border orange covering , with his ear look enormous in their blue - trim cloth , be be lead to the course .
' where be Cord ? ' he ask the groom .
' in the stable , saddle . '
in her open box Frou - Frou stand ready saddle .
they be just go to lead she out .
' I be not late ? '
' all right ! all right ! ' answer the Englishman .
' do not upset yourself . '
Vronsky once again glance at the beautiful fascinating shape of the mare , whose whole body be tremble , and tear himself with difficulty from this sight he leave the shed .
he come toward the pavilion at the very good time to avoid attract anyone 's attention .
the two - verst race be nearly over , and all eye be fix on an officer of the horse - guard in front and on a hussar officer behind , who be urge their horse to the last limit of their strength as they near the winning - post .
from within and without the ring every one be crowd toward the winning - post , and a group of horse - guard , – officer and man , – with loud shout be express their joy at the expect triumph of their officer and comrade .
Vronsky join the crowd unnoticed , almost at the moment that the bell ring to announce the end of the race , and the tall officer of the horse - guard all bespatter with mud , who have come in first ; be bend down in his saddle , loosen the rein of his grey gelding , which be dark with perspiration and pant heavily .
the gelding , plant its foot with effort , reduce the speed of its enormous body , and the guard ' officer , like one wake from deep sleep , look round and force himself to smile .
a crowd of friend and stranger surround he .
Vronsky purposely avoid the select and fashionable crowd which move and chat with restrained freedom in front of the pavilion .
he ascertain that Anna , Betsy , and his brother 's wife be there , but in order not to agitate himself , intentionally avoid go near they .
but he continually meet acquaintance who stop he , tell he about the race that have be run , and ask he why he be so late .
when the winner be call up to the pavilion to receive their prize and every one be look that way , Vronsky 's eld brother , Alexander , a colonel with shoulder knot , of medium height , as sturdy as Alexis but handsomer and ruddier , with a red nose and a drunken though open countenance , come up to he .
' do you get my note ? ' he ask . ' one can never find you . '
Alexander Vronsky , despite the loose and , in particular , drunken life for which he be note , be quite a courtier .
while speak to his brother of a matter very unpleasant to he he , know that many eye might be fix on they , wear a smile expression , as if he be joke with he about some unimportant matter .
' I receive it , but really do not understand what you be worry about , ' reply Alexis .
' I be worry because people have just remark to I that you be not here and that you be see in Peterhof last Monday . '
' there be thing which should be discuss only by those who be directly interested , and the matter you be concern yourself about be one ... '
' yes , but then one should not be in the army , or ... '
' I beg you not to interfere , that be all . '
Alexis Vronsky 's frown face turn pale , and his prominent low jaw twitch , a thing that rarely happen to he .
be a very kind - hearted man he seldom get angry , but when he do , and when his chin twitch , then he be dangerous , as Alexander Vronsky know .
Alexander smile gaily .
' I only want to deliver mother 's letter .
answer she , and do not upset yourself before the race .
Bonne chance ! ' he add smile and go away .
but just then another friendly greeting stop Vronsky .
' will not you recognize your friend ?
how do you do , mon cher ? ' say Oblonsky , shine here , amid all this Petersburg brilliancy , no less than he shine in Moscow , with his rosy face and glisten , well - brush whisker . ' I come yesterday and , be very glad that I shall witness your triumph .
when can we meet ? '
' come to the mess - room to - morrow , ' say Vronsky , and apologetically press the sleeve of Oblonsky 's overcoat , he go to the centre of the racecourse where the horse be already be lead out for the steeplechase .
the perspiring , exhausted horse which have race be be lead away by their groom , and one by one the fresh one for the next race be appear , most of they english horse , which in their hooded covering and with their tightly - girth stomach look like strange gigantic bird .
to the right the slender and beautiful Frou - Frou be be lead up and down , step as on spring with she rather long elastic pastern .
not far from she they be take the horse - cloth off the big - eared Gladiator .
the large , beautiful , perfectly regular shape of the horse , with his wonderful hindquarter and his exceptionally short pastern just above his hoof , involuntarily arrest Vronsky 's attention .
he wish to go up to his own horse , but be again stop by an acquaintance .
' ah , there be Karenin ! ' say the acquaintance with whom he be talk . ' he be look for his wife , and she be in the centre of the pavilion .
have you not see she ? '
' no , I have not , ' say Vronsky , and without even glance at the pavilion where Anna be point out to he , he go to his horse .
he have not have time to examine the saddle , about which he wish to give some direction , when the rider be summon to the pavilion to draw their number and place .
with serious , stern , and in many case pale face , seventeen officer assemble at the pavilion and draw their number .
Vronsky get number seven .
the order be give : ' Mount ! '
feel that he and the other rider be the centre toward which all eye be turn , Vronsky , in the highly - string state which generally make his movement calm and deliberate , approach his horse .
cord , in honour of the race , be dress in his good clothe : a black button - up coat , a stiff starched collar that press against his cheek , a bowler hat , and top boot .
he be calm and important as usual , and stand in front of the horse , be himself hold both its rein .
Frou - Frou continue to tremble as if in a fever .
her fiery eye turn on the approach Vronsky .
Vronsky push his finger under the girth .
the mare turn her eye still far back , show her tooth , and set back an ear .
the Englishman pucker his lip , wish to express a smile at anyone test his saddling .
' you would well mount . you will be less excited . '
Vronsky glance round at his rival for the last time .
he know that he would not see they during the race .
two of they be already ride toward the starting - point .
Galtsin , one of the formidable competitor and a friend of Vronsky 's , be struggle with a sorrel gelding that would not let he mount .
a short hussar in tight riding - breech be gallop along bunch up like a cat in his desire to imitate an english jockey .
Prince Kusovlev sit pale - face on his thoroughbred mare from the Grabov stud farm , which an Englishman be lead by the bridle .
Vronsky and all his set know Kusovlev and his peculiarity , which be weak nerve and terrible vanity .
they know he be afraid of everything , even of ride an army horse , but now , just because it be dangerous , because neck might be break and at each obstacle there be a doctor in attendance , an ambulance wagon with a red cross sew on it , and a nurse , he have determine to ride .
their eye meet and Vronsky wink at he kindly and approvingly .
the only one Vronsky do not see be his chief rival Makhotin on his Gladiator .
' do not hurry , ' say Cord to Vronsky , ' and remember one thing : do not hold back or urge on your horse at an obstacle . let she have her way . '
' very well , very well , ' say Vronsky take the rein .
' lead if you can , but do not despair till the last moment if you be behind . '
the mare have not time to stir before Vronsky with a powerful and agile movement put his foot in the notched steel stirrup and seat himself lightly but firmly on the creak leather of the saddle .
having get his right foot also in its stirrup he straighten out the double rein between his practise finger , and Cord remove his hand .
as if not know which foot to step on first , Frou - Frou stretch the rein with her long neck , and start as if on spring , shake her rider on her flexible back .
cord , quicken his step , follow they .
the restive horse tug at the rein , now to one side , now to the other , try to deceive her rider , and Vronsky vainly seek by voice and hand to soothe she .
they be already approach the dam - up stream on their way to the starting - post .
some of the rider be in front , some behind , when Vronsky suddenly hear a horse gallop through the mud behind he , and Makhotin on his white - legged , large - eared Gladiator go past he .
Makhotin smile , show his long tooth , but Vronsky look at he angrily .
Vronsky always dislike he and now consider he his most dangerous rival , and he be vex with he for gallop past and so exciting Frou - Frou .
she break into a canter , give two leap , and , angry at the tightened rein , change back into a jerky trot , jolt her rider .
cord also frown , follow Vronsky almost at a run .
seventeen officer in all had enter for the steeplechase .
it be to take place on the large four - verst elliptical course in front of the pavilion .
on that course there be nine obstacle : the brook ; a barrier nearly five foot high just in front of the pavilion ; a dry ditch ; a water - jump ; an incline ; an irish bank ( one of the most difficult obstacle ) , consist of a bank with brushwood on top , beyond which there be another ditch which the horse could not see , so that they have to clear both obstacle or come to grief ; then two more water - jump , and another dry ditch . the win - post be opposite the pavilion .
but the start be not in the ellipse , but about 250 yard to one side of it , and the first obstacle , the dam - up brook seven foot wide , be there . the rider could either ford or jump it at their discretion .
three time the rider draw up in line , but each time someone 's horse make a false start and they have to line up again .
Colonel Sestrin , an expert starter , be already get angry , but at last , at the fourth try , he shout ' go ! ' and the race begin .
all eye and all glass be turn on the bright group of rider while they be get into line .
' they have start !
they be off ! ' be hear from every side after the hush of expectation ..
looker - on , in group or singly , start run from place to place to get a well view .
in the first minute the group of rider begin to stretch out and could be see in two and three , and one behind another , approach the brook .
it have look to the public as if they have all start together , but the rider be aware of a difference of second which to they be of great importance .
the excited and over - nervous Frou - Frou lose in the first moment , and several horse start ahead of she , but before reach the brook Vronsky , who with all his strength be hold back the mare that be tug at the rein , have easily pass three rider , and ahead of he there be only Makhotin 's chestnut Gladiator ( whose hind - quarter move regularly and lightly just in front of he ) , and in front of all , the exquisite Diana , carry Kusovlev , who be more dead than alive .
in the first moment Vronsky be master neither of himself nor of his mare .
up to the first obstacle , the brook , he could not control her movement .
Gladiator and Diana approach the stream together , and almost at the same moment rise above it and fly across to the other side ; lightly as if on wing Frou - Frou rise up behind they ; but at the moment when Vronsky feel himself raise in the air he suddenly see , almost under his horse 's foot , Kusovlev , who be flounder on the other side of the stream with his Diana ( Kusovlev have let go of the rein at the jump and the horse fall throw he over her head ) .
these particular Vronsky learn later , now he only see that Diana 's head or leg might come just where Frou - Frou have to alight .
but Frou - Frou , like a fall cat , make an effort with her leg and back while in the air , and clear the other horse rush on .
' oh , you darling ! ' think Vronsky .
after cross the brook Vronsky have the mare quite under control , and hold she in , intend to cross the big barrier behind Makhotin and then to try and pass he on the flat 300 yard before the next obstacle .
the big barrier be right in front of the Imperial Pavilion .
the Emperor , the whole Court , and crowd of people be all look at they – at he and at Makhotin , who be a full length ahead of he when they approach the Devil ( as the solid barrier be call ) .
Vronsky feel eye direct toward he from all side , but he see nothing except the ear and neck of his mare , the ground race toward he , and Gladiator 's hind - quarter and white leg rapidly stride before he , and keep always the same distance ahead .
Gladiator rise without touch anything , swish his short tail , and disappear from Vronsky 's sight .
' Bravo ! ' shout a single voice .
just then the board of the barrier flash close before Vronsky 's eye .
without the least change in her action his mare rise under he ; the board disappear , only behind he there be a knock .
excite by the fact that Gladiator be in front , the mare have rise at the barrier a little too soon and have strike it with a hind hoof .
but her pace do not change , and Vronsky , hit in the face by a lump of mud , realize that he be again at the same distance behind Gladiator .
he again see before he that horse 's hind - quarter , short tail and flash white leg , no far away ,
at the very moment that Vronsky think it time to pass Makhotin , Frou - Frou , understand what be in his mind , without any urging , considerably increase her speed and begin to draw near to Makhotin on the side where it be most advantageous to pass he – the side of the rope , Makhotin would not let she pass that side .
Vronsky have just time to think of come up on the outside , when Frou - Frou change her leg and start to do so .
Frou - Frou 's shoulder , which be already grow dark with sweat , be on a level with Gladiator 's hind - quarter .
they run side by side for a few stride , but before the obstacle they be approach , Vronsky , not to lose ground , give the mare her head and just on the declivity pass Makhotin .
he catch sight of his mud - bespatter face , and even think he see he smile .
he pass , but feel that Makhotin be close behind he , and continually hear just behind his back the regular beating of hoof and the short , still fresh breathing of Gladiator 's nostril .
the next two obstacle , a ditch and a fence , be easily pass , but Vronsky hear Gladiator gallop and snort close .
he urge on his mare and feel with joy that she easily increase her speed , and he hear the sound of Gladiator 's hoof again at the former distance behind .
Vronsky now have the lead , as he have wish and as Cord have advise , and he be confident of success .
his excitement and joy , and his tenderness for Frou - Frou , grow strong and strong .
he wish to glance round but dare not do so , and he try to keep calm and not to urge his mare , but to let she retain a reserve of strength such as he feel that Gladiator still have .
there remain the most difficult obstacle ; if he cross it ahead of the other , he would come in first .
he be gallop up to the irish bank .
he and Frou - Frou both see the bank while still some way off , and to both of they come a momentary doubt .
he notice the mare 's hesitation by her ear and raise his whip , but immediately feel that his doubt be groundless : the mare know what be want , and , as he expect , she increase her speed , take off exactly at the right moment , and give a leap the force of which carry she far across the ditch . then without effort and without change her leg Frou - Frou continue her gallop .
' Bravo , Vronsky ! ' he hear the voice of a knot of people he know – friend of his regiment who be stand by this obstacle . he could not fail to recognize Yashvin 's voice , though he do not see he .
' oh , my beauty ! ' he think of Frou - Frou , as he listen to what be happen behind .
' he be over it ! ' he think , as he hear Gladiator again gallop behind he .
there remain one last water jump , only a yard and a half wide .
Vronsky do not even look at it , but hope to win by a distance , begin work the rein with a circular movement , raise and drop the mare 's head in time with her stride .
he feel the mare be use her last reserve of strength ; not only her neck and shoulder be wet , but on her wither , her head , and her point ear the sweat stand in drop , and she be breathe short and sharp .
but he know that her reserve of strength be more than enough for the remain five hundred yard .
it be only by feel himself near to the ground and by the smoothness of the pace that Vronsky know how much the mare have increase her speed .
she leap the ditch as if she do not notice it , seem to fly across it like a bird . but at that very moment Vronsky , to his horror , feel that something terrible have happen .
he himself , without know it , have make the unpardonable mistake of drop back in his saddle and pull up her head .
before he could realize this , the white leg of the gelding flash close by he and Makhotin pass at a rapid gallop .
Vronsky be touch the ground with one foot .
he scarcely have time to withdraw the foot before Frou - Frou fall on her side , and snort heavily and with her delicate damp neck make vain effort to rise , begin struggle on the ground at his foot , like a wounded , flutter bird .
owe to Vronsky 's awkward movement she have drop her hind leg and break she back .
but he only understand this much later .
now he only see that Makhotin be quickly gallop away , while he , reel , stand alone on the muddy , stationary ground ; before he , breathe heavily , lie Frou - Frou , who , bend her head toward he , gaze at he with her beautiful eye .
still not understand what have happen , Vronsky pull at the rein .
the mare again begin to struggle like a fish , cause the flap of the saddle to creak ; she get her front leg free , but unable to lift her hind - quarter , struggle and immediately again fall on her side .
his face distort with passion , pale and with quiver jaw , Vronsky kick she with his heel in the belly and again pull at the rein : but she do not move and , nuzzle the ground , only look at her master with eloquent eye .
' ah , ah , ah ! ' groan Vronsky , seize his head . ' ah ! what have I do ? ' he exclaim .
' the race lose ! – and the fault mine – shameful and unpardonable .
and this dear , unfortunate mare ruin !
ah ! what have I do ! '
onlooker , a doctor , an attendant , and officer of his regiment run toward he .
to his regret he feel that he be himself sound and unhurt .
the mare have break she back , and it be decide to shoot she .
Vronsky be unable to reply to question or to speak to anyone .
he turn away and , without pick up the cap that have fall from his head , leave the racecourse without know where he be go .
he feel miserable .
for the first time in his life he experience the bad kind of misfortune – one that be irretrievable , and cause by his own fault .
Yashvin overtake he with his cap and lead he home , and in half an hour Vronsky come to himself .
but the memory of that steeplechase long remain the most painful and distressing memory of his life .
EXTERNALLY KARENIN 's relation with his wife remain as before .
the only difference be that he be even more occupied than before .
as in former year , at the beginning of the spring he go abroad to recuperate his health , which be upset each year by the winter 's work . and as usual he return in July and at once with increase energy take up his customary work .
and as usual his wife have move to the country house while he remain in Petersburg .
since their conversation on the night of the Princess Tverskaya 's party he have never speak to Anna of his suspicion and jealousy , and that habitual tone of his which seem to mock at some one be exactly suited to his present relation with she .
he be rather cold toward she .
he appear only to be slightly dissatisfied with she for that first night 's talk which she have evade .
in his behaviour to she there be a shade of vexation , but nothing more .
' you do not wish to have an explanation , ' he seem to say to she in imagination , ' so much the bad for you .
now you will ask I to explain . and I shall not do so .
so much the bad for you , ' he think , like a man who having vainly try to extinguish a fire should be vex at his vain exertion and say to it : ' well , go on and burn , it be your own fault . '
he who be so wise and astute in official affair do not realize the insanity of such an attitude toward his wife .
he do not understand it because it would have be too terrible to realize his real situation , and he have close , locked , and seal that compartment of his soul which contain his feeling for his family – that is , his wife and son .
he who have be a considerate father , since the end of that winter have become particularly cold toward his son , and treat he in the same bantering manner as he do his wife .
' ah , young man ! ' be the way in which he address he .
Karenin think and say that in no previous year have he have so much official business as this year ; but he be not conscious of the fact that this year he invent work for himself , and that this be one of the mean of keep that compartment close where lay his feeling for and thought of his family , which become more terrible the long they lie there .
if anyone have venture to ask he what he think of his wife 's conduct , the mild and gentle Karenin would not have give any answer , but would have be angry with the man who put such a question .
that be why Karenin 's face bear a stern , proud expression when anyone ask about his wife 's health .
he do not wish to think about his wife 's conduct and feeling at all , and he really do not think about they .
the country house the Karenins regularly occupy in summer be in Peterhof , and generally the Countess Lydia Ivanovna also live near by and be in constant touch with Anna .
that year the Countess Lydia Ivanovna refuse to live in Peterhof , do not once come to see Anna , and hint to Karenin the undesirability of Anna 's intimacy with Betsy and Vronsky .
Karenin stop she severely , express the opinion that his wife be above suspicion , and from that time begin to avoid the Countess .
he do not wish to see , and do not see , that many people in Society already look askance at Anna ; he do not wish to understand , and do not understand , why his wife particularly insist on move to Tsarskoe Selo , where Betsy live and near which place Vronsky 's regiment be station .
he do not let himself think about this and do not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admit it to himself or have any proof or even suspicion of it , he nevertheless know certainly that he be a wrong husband , and be therefore profoundly unhappy .
how often during the eight year of happy married life with his wife , when he see other who be unfaithful wife or deceive husband , have Karenin say to himself , ' how could they let it come to that ? how be it they do not end such a hideous state of thing ? '
but now , when the misfortune have fall on his own head , he not only do not think of how to end it , but do not wish to recognize it at all – and do not wish to recognize it just because it be too terrible , too unnatural .
since his return from abroad Karenin have be twice at the country house .
once he dine there , and the other time he spend an evening with some visitor , but he have not once stay the night , as he use to do in former year .
the day of the race be a very busy one for Karenin ; but in the morning when he make his plan for the day he decide that immediately after an early dinner he would go to see his wife at the country house , and from there to the race , at which the whole Court would be present and where he ought to appear .
he would call on his wife , because he have decide to do so once a week for the sake of propriety .
besides , he have that day to give her money for her expense , due accord to their custom by the fifteenth of each month .
have with the mental control habitual to he consider these matter concern his wife , he do not allow his thought to run on far about she .
he have a very busy morning .
on the previous day the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have send he a pamphlet by a celebrated traveller in China , and a letter ask he to receive this traveller , who for various reason be very interesting and necessary to they .
Karenin have not have time to finish the pamphlet the evening before , and do so in the morning .
then he receive petitioner , hear report , give audience , assign post and order dismissal , apportion reward , pension , and salary , and attend to correspondence – everyday matter , as he call they , which take up so much of his time .
after that come personal matter – a visit from his doctor and one from his steward .
the latter do not keep he long .
he only hand Karenin the money he want and give he a short account of the state of his affair , which be not quite satisfactory , for it happen that , owe to their having be from home a good deal , more have be spend that year than usual and there be a deficit .
but the doctor , a celebrated Petersburg physician who be on friendly term with Karenin , take up a good deal of time .
Karenin have not expect he to - day and be surprised to see he , and yet more surprised that the doctor question he very particularly about his state of health , sound his chest and tap and feel his liver .
Karenin do not know that his friend Lydia Ivanovna , having notice that he be not in good health that summer , have ask the doctor to go and see his patient .
' do it for my sake , ' the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have say .
' I will do it for the sake of Russia , Countess , ' reply the doctor .
' dear man ! ' the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have exclaim .
the doctor be very dissatisfied with Karenin 's state of health .
he find he insufficiently nourish and his liver much enlarge , and that the water have have no effect at all .
he prescribe as much physical exercise and as little mental strain as possible , and above all no worry of any kind – that is , he advise what be for Karenin as impossible as not to breathe , and he go away leave Karenin with a disagreeable consciousness that something be wrong with he which could not be remedie .
in the porch , after leave Karenin , the doctor meet Slyudin , Karenin 's private secretary , whom he know very well .
they have be at the University together , and though they very seldom meet , they respect one another and be good friend , and to no one but Slyudin would the doctor have express his opinion about his patient .
' I be very glad you have be to see he , ' say Slyudin . ' he be not well , and I believe that ...
well , what be it ? '
' it be this , ' say the doctor , beckon over Slyudin 's head to his coachman to drive up . ' it be this , ' and with his white hand he take a finger of his kid glove and stretch it ; ' if you try to break a cord that be slack it be not easy to break it , but strain that cord to its utmost and the weight of a finger will snap it . and he by his hard work and the conscientious way he do it , be strained to the utmost , and there be a pressure from outside , and a heavy one , ' conclude the doctor , raise his eyebrow significantly . ' will you be at the race ? ' he add , descend the step to his brougham . ' yes , yes , of course it take a lot of time , ' he reply to some remark of Slyudin ' which he have not quite catch .
after the doctor , who have take up so much time , come the famous traveller , and Karenin , thank to the pamphlet he have just read and to what he know before , greatly impress the traveller by the depth of his knowledge of the subject and the breadth of his enlighten outlook .
at the same time as the traveller , a provincial Marshal of the Nobility be announce with whom Karenin have some thing to talk over .
when he too have leave , he have to finish his everyday business with his private secretary and have also to drive to see an important personage on a grave and serious matter .
he only manage to get back at five , his dinner - time , and having dine with his private secretary , he invite the latter to drive with he to his country house and to go to the race with he .
without acknowledge it to himself , Karenin now look out for opportunity of have a third person present at his interview with his wife .
ANNA be UPSTAIRS stand in front of a mirror pinning , with Annushka 's help , a last bow to her dress , when she hear the wheel of a carriage grate on the gravel at the entrance .
' it be too early for Betsy , ' she think , and glance out of the window she see the carriage , and stick out of it a black hat and Karenin 's familiar ear . ' how unfortunate !
can he mean to stay the night ? ' think she , and so awful and horrible appear to she the consequence that might result therefrom that , without a moment 's hesitation , she go out to meet he with a bright beam face ; and feel within herself the presence of the already familiar spirit of lie and deceit , she give herself up to it at once and begin speak without know what she be go to say .
' ah , how nice this be ! ' she say , give her husband her hand and smilingly greet Slyudin as a member of the household . ' you be stay the night , I hope ? ' be the first word prompt by the spirit of lie .
' and now we shall go together . only it be a pity that I promise to go with Betsy .
she will be come for I . '
Karenin make a grimace at the mention of Betsy 's name .
' oh , I will not separate the inseparables , ' he say in his usual facetious tone . ' I will go with Slyudin .
the doctor have order I to walk .
I will walk part way and imagine that I be still take the water . '
' there be no hurry , ' say Anna . ' would you like some tea ? ' she ring .
' tea , please , and tell Serezha that his father be here .
well , how be your health ?
you have not be here before ; look how pretty my verandah be , ' she go on , turn now to her husband , now to Slyudin .
she speak very simply and naturally , but too much and too fast .
she feel this herself , especially as by the inquisitive way Slyudin look at she she notice that he seem to be watch she .
Slyudin immediately go out on to the verandah and she sit down by her husband .
' you be not look quite well , ' she say .
' no , ' he reply , ' the doctor come to see I this morning and rob I of an hour .
I feel that some friend of mine must have send he : my health be so precious ... '
' yes , but what do he say ? '
she question he about his health and his work , persuade he to take a rest and to move out to she in the country .
she say all this lightly , rapidly , and with peculiarly sparkling eye ; but Karenin do not now attach any importance to this tone of hers .
he only hear her word , and give they only their direct meaning .
and he answer simply , though jokingly .
in all this conversation nothing particular pass , but never afterwards could Anna recall this short scene without be torment by shame .
Serezha come in , precede by his governess .
have Karenin allow himself to observe , he would have notice the timid , confused look which the child cast first at his father and then at his mother .
but he do not want to see , and do not see , anything .
' ah , young man !
he have grow .
he be really get quite a man .
how do you do , young man ? '
and he hold out his hand to the frightened boy .
Serezha , who have always be timid with his father , now that the latter address he as ' young man , ' and that the question whether Vronsky be a friend or a foe have enter his head , shrank from he .
he look round at his mother , as if ask for protection .
only with his mother he feel at ease .
Karenin meanwhile talk to the governess with his hand on his son 's shoulder , and Serezha feel so extremely uncomfortable that Anna see he be about to cry .
Anna , who have blush when the boy come in , see how distressed he be , and , rise , lift Karenin 's hand off her son 's shoulder , kiss the boy , lead he out on to the verandah , and return at once .
' well , it be time we be go , ' she say , glance at her watch . ' I wonder Betsy have not come ... '
' yes , ' say Karenin , and interlace his hand he crack his finger . ' I also come to bring you some money , since " nightingale be not feed on fables,"- ' he add . ' I expect you want it ? '
' no , I do not ... yes , I do , ' she reply without look at he , and blush to the root of her hair . ' but I suppose you will call here after the race . '
' oh , yes ! ' answer Karenin . ' and here be the ornament of Peterhof , the Princess Tverskaya , ' he add , glance out of the window at an approach carriage of English build with a small body place very high .
' what elegance !
charming ! well then , we will start too . '
the Princess Tverskaya do not get out , only her footman in his black hat , cape , and gaiter jump down at the front door .
' I be go , good - bye ! ' say Anna , and give her son a kiss she go up to Karenin and hold out her hand to he . ' you be very kind to come . '
Karenin kiss her hand .
' well then , au revoir !
you will come back for tea , that be right ! ' she say , and go out beam and gay .
but as soon as she cease to see he she become conscious of the place on her hand his lip have touch and shudder with disgust .
when KARENIN appear at the racecourse Anna be already sit beside Betsy in the Grand Stand : the stand where all the high Society be assemble .
she see her husband from afar .
two man – her husband and her lover – be the two centre of her life , and without the aid of her sense she be aware of the presence of either .
from afar she already feel the approach of her husband , and involuntarily watch he amid the surge crowd through which he be move .
she see how he approach the Grand Stand , now condescendingly reply to obsequious bow , now amiably and absent - mindedly greet his equal , now watchfully wait to catch the eye of the great one of this world and raise his large round hat , which press on the tip of his ear .
she know all these way of his and they be all repulsive to she .
' nothing but ambition , nothing but a wish to get on – that be all he have in his soul , ' she think ; ' and lofty view , love of enlightenment , and religion , be all only mean toward get on . '
she know by the way he look at the Ladies ' stand that he be try to find she ( he look straight at she , without recognize she amid the sea of muslin , ribbon feather , sunshade , and flower ) , but she purposely disregard he .
' Alexis Alexandrovich ! ' the Princess Betsy call to he , ' I be sure you do not see your wife ; here she be ! '
he smile his usual cold smile .
' there be so much splendour here that my eye be dazzle , ' he reply , and approach the stand .
he smile at Anna as a husband should smile when meet his wife whom he have see shortly before , and greet the Princess and other acquaintance , give to each what be due – that be to say , joke with the lady and exchange greeting with the man .
at the foot of the stand stand a General Aide - de - camp respect by Karenin , and note for his intelligence and education .
with he Karenin enter into conversation .
there be an interval between two race , so that nothing hinder the conversation .
the General A.-de - C. disapprove of the race .
Karenin reply , defend they .
Anna hear his high measure voice and do not miss a single word . each word seem to her false and grate painfully on her ear .
when the four - verst steeplechase be begin she lean forward , and do not take her eye off Vronsky while he go up to his horse and mount it , and at the same time she hear her husband 's repulsive , uncease voice .
she be torment by anxiety for Vronsky , but suffer even more from what seem to she the incessant flow of her husband 's shrill voice with its familiar intonation .
' I be a bad woman , a ruined woman , ' she think , ' but I dislike lie . I can not stand falsehood , but his food be falsehood .
he know everything , see everything – what then do he feel , if he can talk so calmly ?
if he be to kill I , and if he be to kill Vronsky , I should respect he .
but no , lie and propriety be all he care about , ' say Anna to herself , without consider what she really want of her husband or what she would have like he to be .
nor do she understand that Karenin 's peculiar volubility , which so irritate she , be only an expression of the anxiety and unrest within he .
as a child that have be hurt skip about , make its muscle move in order to dull its pain , so Karenin need mental activity to smother those thought about his wife which in her presence and in the presence of Vronsky , and amid the continual mention of his name , force themselves upon he .
and as it be natural for the child to skip about , so it be natural for he to speak cleverly and well .
he say :
' the danger in military , that is , cavalry , steeplechase be an unavoidable element of the racing .
if England can point to the most brilliant cavalry charge in military history , it be entirely due to the fact that she have historically develop this capacity in her man and horse .
sport in my opinion have great value , but we , as usual , see only what be most external . '
' not external at all , ' say the Princess Tverskaya .
' they say one of the officer have break two rib . '
Karenin smile his usual smile , which show his tooth but express nothing .
' grant , Princess , ' say he , ' that that be not external but internal .
but that be not the point , ' and he again turn to the General with whom he be talk seriously : ' do not forget that it be military man who be race , man who have choose that career , and one must admit that every calling have a reverse side to its medal .
it be directly involve in their military duty .
the monstrous sport of prize - fighting , or the spanish bull - fight , be indication of barbarism , but specialized sport be a sign of progress . '
' no , I sha not come again ; it excite I too much , ' say the Princess Betsy . ' do not you think so , Anna ? '
' it be exciting , but one can not tear oneself away , ' say another lady . ' if I have be a Roman , I should never have miss a gladiatorial show . '
Anna say nothing , but without put down her glass look steadily at one point .
at that moment a highly - place general make his way through the stand .
interrupt his speech , Karenin rise hurriedly , but with dignity , and bow low to this general .
' you be not race , ' say the latter to he jokingly .
' my race be a hard one , ' reply Karenin respectfully .
and though the answer do not mean anything , the general make as though he have hear a clever reply from a clever man , and quite appreciated la pointe de la sauce . '
' there be two side to it , ' continue Karenin , ' that of the performer and that of the spectator . the love of such spectacle be the sure proof of low development in the onlooker , I admit , but ... '
' Princess , a bet ! ' come the voice of Oblonsky from below , address Betsy . ' whom be you back ? '
' Anna and I be bet on Kuzovlev , ' reply Betsy .
' and I on Vronsky .
a pair of glove ? '
' all right . '
' what a fine scene , be it not ? '
Karenin be silent while other be speak near he , but begin again immediately .
' I agree that unmanly sport ... ' he be continue .
but at that moment the race begin and all conversation cease .
Karenin be silent too , as everybody rise and turn their eye toward the stream .
Karenin be not interested in race and therefore do not watch the rider , but begin absent - mindedly look at the spectator with his weary eye .
his gaze rest on Anna .
her face be pale and stern .
she evidently see nothing and nobody , with one exception .
her hand convulsively grasp her fan , and she do not breathe .
he look at she and hurriedly turn away , scrutinize other face .
' yes , that lady – and those other – be very excited too ; it be quite natural , ' he say to himself .
he do not wish to look at she , but his eye be involuntarily draw toward she .
he again watch her face , try not to read what be so plainly write on it , but against his will he read in it with horror that which he do not want to know .
the first fall – Kuzovlev 's at the stream – excite every one , but Karenin see clearly by Anna 's pale , triumphant face that he whom she be watch have not fall .
when after Makhotin and Vronsky have jump the big barrier the officer follow they fall on his head and swoon , a murmur of horror pass through the whole crowd ; but Karenin see that Anna do not even notice the fall and with difficulty understand what those around she be talk about .
he look at she more and more often , and more intently .
Anna , though fully engross by the sight of the gallop Vronsky , become aware of the cold eye of her husband bent upon she from one side .
she glance for an instant at he with a look of inquiry , and , slightly frown , turn away again .
' oh , I do not care , ' she seem to say to he , and then do not once look at he again .
the steeplechase be unlucky : more than half of the seventeen officer be throw and hurt .
by the end of the race every one be disturb , and this disturbance be increase by the fact that the Emperor be displeased .
everyone be loudly express disapproval and repeat the word some one have utter : ' they will have gladiator and lion next , ' and every one be feel the horror of it , so that when Vronsky fall and Anna give a loud exclamation , there be nothing remarkable about it .
but afterwards a change come over Anna 's face which be positively improper .
she quite lose self - control .
she begin to flutter like a captive bird , now rise to go , now address Betsy .
' let we go ! ' she say .
but Betsy do not hear she .
she be lean over to speak to a General who be below .
Karenin approach Anna and politely offer she his arm . ' come , if you like , ' he say in French ; but Anna listen to what the General be say and do not notice her husband .
' he too have break his leg , they say . it be too bad , ' the General say .
Anna , without reply to her husband , raise her glass and look toward the spot where Vronsky have fall ; but it be so far off , and so many people have crowd there , that it be impossible to distinguish anything .
she put down her glass and be about to go ; but at that moment an officer gallop up and report something to the Emperor .
Anna bend forward to listen .
' Steve !
Steve ! ' she call to her brother .
but he do not hear she .
she be again on the point of go .
' I again offer you my arm if you wish to go , ' say her husband , touch her arm .
with a look of repulsion she draw back , and without look at he reply :
' no , no , leave I alone , I shall stay here . '
she now see an officer run to the Grand Stand from the place where Vronsky have fall .
Betsy wave her handkerchief to he .
the officer bring the news that the rider be unhurt but that the horse have break its back .
on hear this Anna quickly sit down and hide her face behind her fan .
Karenin see that she be cry , and that she be unable to keep back either her tear or the sob that make her bosom heave .
he step forward so as to screen she , give her time to recover .
' for the third time I offer you my arm , ' he say after a while , turn toward she .
Anna look at he and do not know what to say .
the Princess Betsy come to her aid .
' no , Alexis Alexandrovich , ' she put in , ' I bring Anna here and I have promise to take she back again . '
' excuse I , Princess , ' he say , smile politely but look she firmly in the eye , ' but I see that Anna be not very well , and I wish she to come with I . '
Anna look round with alarm , rise obediently and put her hand on her husband 's arm .
' I will send to he and find out , and will let you know , ' Betsy whisper to she .
on leave the stand Karenin as usual speak to people he meet , and Anna as usual have to reply and make conversation ; but she be beside herself and walk as in a dream , hold her husband 's arm .
' be he hurt or not ?
be it true ?
will he come or not ?
shall I see he to - night ? ' she think .
in silence she take her place in her husband 's carriage , and in silence they drive out of the crowd of vehicle .
in spite of all he have see , Karenin would still not allow himself to think of his wife 's real position .
he only see the external sight .
he see that she have behave with impropriety and he consider it his duty to tell she so .
but it be very difficult for he to say that and nothing more .
he open his mouth to say that she have behave improperly , but involuntarily say something quite different .
' after all , how inclined we all be to these cruel spectacle , ' he say . ' I notice ... '
' what ? I do not understand , ' say Anna contemptuously .
he be offend and at once begin to tell she what he want to .
' I must tell you ... ' he say .
' it be come – the explanation ! ' she think and feel frightened .
' I must tell you that you behave improperly to - day , ' he say in French .
' how do I behave improperly ? ' she say aloud , quickly turn her head and look he straight in the eye , now without any of the former deceptive gaiety but with a determined air beneath which she have difficulty in hide the fright she feel .
' do not forget , ' say he to she , point at the open window behind the coachman 's box ; and , slightly rise , he lift the window .
' what do you consider improper ? ' she ask again .
' the despair you be unable to conceal when one of the rider fall . '
he expect a rejoinder from she ; but she remain silent , look straight before she .
' I ask you once before to conduct yourself in Society so that evil tongue might be unable to say anything against you .
there be a time when I speak about inner relation ; now I do not speak of they .
I speak now of external relation .
your conduct be improper and I do not wish it to occur again . '
she do not hear half that he say , but feel afraid of he and wonder whether it be true that Vronsky be not hurt .
be it of he they be speak when they say that he be not hurt but the horse have break its back ?
she only smile with simulate irony when he have finish ; and she do not reply because she have not hear what he say .
Karenin have begin to speak boldly but when he realize clearly what he be talk about the fear she be experience communicate itself to he .
he see her smile and a strange delusion possess he .
' she smile at my suspicion .
in a moment she will tell I what she tell I then : that these suspicion be groundless and ridiculous . '
now that a complete disclosure be impend , he expect nothing so much as that she would , as before , answer he mockingly that his suspicion be ridiculous and groundless .
what he know be so terrible that he be now prepared to believe anything .
but the expression of her frightened and gloomy face do not now even promise deception .
' perhaps I be mistaken , ' say he . ' in that case I beg your pardon . '
' no , you be not mistaken , ' she say slowly , look despairingly into his cold face . ' you be not mistaken .
I be , and can not help be , in despair .
I listen to you but I be think of he .
I love he , I be his mistress , I can not endure you , I be afraid of you , and I hate you ...
do what you like to I . '
and throw herself back into the corner of the carriage she burst into sob , hide her face in her hand .
Karenin do not move , and do not change the direction in which he be look , but his face suddenly assume the solemn immobility of the dead , and that expression do not alter till they reach the house .
as they be drive up to it , he turn his face to she still with the same expression and say :
' yes !
but I demand that the external condition of propriety shall be observe till ' – his voice tremble – ' till I take measure to safeguard my honour and inform you of they . '
he alight first and help she out .
in the presence of the servant he press her hand , re - enter the carriage , and drive off toward Petersburg .
after he have go the Princess Betsy 's footman bring Anna a note .
' I send to Alexis to inquire about his health . he write that he be safe and sound , but in despair . '
' then he will come , ' think she . ' what a good thing it be that I speak out . '
she look at the clock .
she have three hour still to wait , and the memory of the incident of their last meeting fire her blood .
' dear I , how light it be !
it be dreadful , but I love to see his face , and I love this fantastic light ...
my husband ! ah , yes ...
well , thank heaven that all be over with he ! '
as always happens where people congregate , the usual crystallization , if we may so call it , of Society take place in the little german watering - place to which the Shcherbatskys have come , assign to each person a definite and fix position .
as definitely and inevitably as a particle of water expose to the cold assume the well - know form of a snow crystal , do each new - comer on his arrival at the watering - place immediately settle into his natural position .
' Fürst Shcherbatsky sammt Gemahlin und Tochter , ' [ Prince Shcherbatsky with his wife and daughter . ] by the premise they occupy , by their name , and by the people they be acquaint with , at once crystallize into their definite and preordain place .
there be a real German Fürstin [ Princess ] at the watering - place that season , and consequently the crystallize process be accomplish with special energy .
Princess Shcherbatskaya particularly wish to introduce her daughter to the German Royal Princess , and on the second day after their arrival perform that rite .
Kitty make a low and graceful curtsy in her very simple dress – that be to say , very stylish summer gown order from Paris .
the Royal Princess say : ' I hope the rose will soon return to this pretty little face , ' and at once a definite path be firmly establish for the Shcherbatskys from which it be impossible to deviate .
they make acquaintance with the family of an English ' Lady , ' with a German Countess and her son who have be wound in the last war , with a swedish savant and with a Mr. Canut and his sister .
but the people with whom they necessarily associate most be a Moscow lady , Mary Evgenyevna Rtishcheva , and her daughter , whom Kitty find unpleasant because her illness be due to the same cause as Kitty 's – a love affair ; and a Moscow Colonel , whom Kitty from childhood have see and know in uniform with epaulette , and who here – with his small eye , low collar and coloured necktie – look indescribably comical , and be also wearisome because it be impossible to get rid of he .
when all this have become firmly establish , Kitty begin to feel very dull , especially as her father have go to Carlsbad and she be leave alone with her mother .
she be not interested in the people she know , for she feel that nothing new would come from they .
her chief private interest at the watering - place consist in observe those whom she do not know and make conjecture about they .
it be a characteristic of Kitty 's always to expect to find the most excellent quality in people , especially in those she do not know .
and now , when guess who and what kind of people the stranger be , and in what relation they stand to one another , Kitty attribute to they extraordinary and splendid character , and find confirmation in her observation .
among these people she be specially interested in a young russian girl who have come to the watering - place with an invalid russian lady , Madame Stahl , as every one call she .
Madame Stahl belong to the high Society , but she be so ill that she could not walk , and only on fine day occasionally appear on the promenade in a bath - chair .
but not so much from illness as from pride , as the Princess Shcherbatskaya explain – Madame Stahl be not acquaint with any of the Russians there .
the russian girl look after Madame Stahl , and also , as Kitty notice , become intimate with all those who be seriously ill ( of whom there be many in the place ) and wait on they in the most natural way .
this russian girl , Kitty decide , be not relate to Madame Stahl , but neither be she a pay companion .
Madame Stahl call she by the diminutive ' Varenka , ' and other call she Mademoiselle Varenka .
but besides the fact that it interest Kitty to observe the relation of this girl with Madame Stahl and with other , she experience ( as often happen ) an inexplicable attraction toward this Mlle Varenka , and feel , when the girl 's eye meet her , that the feeling be mutual .
this Mlle Varenka be not exactly past her early youth , but seem to be a person destitute of youthfulness : she might be nineteen year old or she might be thirty .
if one examine her feature , she be good - look rather than plain , despite her unhealthy complexion .
her figure would have be good have she not be too lean and her head too large for her medium height ; but she be not likely to prove attractive to man .
she be like a beautiful flower which though not yet in full bloom be already begin to fade and have no scent .
another reason why she could not be attractive to man be because she lack that of which Kitty have too much – a restrained flame of vitality and consciousness of her own attractiveness .
she seem always occupy with something there could be no doubt about , and therefore it seem that no side issue could interest she .
by this contrast to herself Kitty be specially attract .
she feel that in she and in her way of life could be find a model of what she herself be painfully seek : interest in life , the worth of life – outside the social relation of girl to man , which now seem disgusting to Kitty , who regard they as shameful exhibition of good await a buyer .
the more Kitty observe her unknown friend , the more she be convince that this girl really be the perfect being she imagine she to be , and the more she wish to make her acquaintance .
the two girl come across one another several time a day , and every time they meet Kitty 's eye say : ' who be you ?
what be you ? surely you be the delightful creature I imagine you to be ?
but for heaven 's sake ' – her look add – ' do not think that I shall force myself on you .
I simply admire and love you . ' ' I too love you , and you be very , very sweet .
I should love you still more if I have the time , ' the stranger 's look reply .
and Kitty see that the girl really be always occupy : now take the child of some russian family home from the Wells , now carry an invalid 's plaid or wrap it round she , now try to soothe an irritable patient , now choose and buy biscuit for some one 's coffee .
soon after the Shcherbatskys ' arrival , two new person who provoke everybody 's disapproval begin to appear of a morning at the Wells .
they be a very tall , round - shoulder man with black eye , naive and at the same time dreadful , and enormous hand , who wear an old overcoat too short for he , and a slightly pock - marked , sweet - faced woman , badly and tastelessly dress .
having recognize they to be Russians , Kitty at once begin to make up a beautiful and touching romance about they .
but the Princess , having find out from the visitor ' list that they be Nicholas Levin and Mary Ivanovna , explain to Kitty what a bad man this Levin be , and all her dream about those two people vanish .
not so much because of what her mother have tell she , as because the man be Constantine 's brother , these two people appear very disagreeable to Kitty .
this Levin , by his habit of jerk his head , now inspire an irrepressible feeling of aversion in she .
it seem to she that his large , dreadful eye , which follow she insistently , express hatred and irony , and she try to avoid encounter he .
it be a DULL DAY , it rain the whole morning , and the patient with their umbrella crowd the cover gallery .
Kitty be walk with her mother and the Moscow Colonel , who swagger gaily in his short , german coat , buy ready - make in Frankfort .
they keep to one side of the gallery , try to avoid Levin , who be walk on the other side .
Varenka , in her dark dress and a black hat with turn - down rim , be pace the whole length of the gallery with a blind Frenchwoman , and each time she meet Kitty they exchange a friendly look .
' mama , may I speak to she ? ' ask Kitty , follow her unknown friend with her eye and notice that she be move toward the well and that they could meet she there .
' well , if you want to so much , I will inquire about she first and will speak to she myself , ' answer her mother . ' what do you see particular in she ?
I expect she be a companion .
if you like I will make Madame Stahl 's acquaintance .
I know her sister - in - law , ' add the Princess , raise her head proudly .
Kitty know that her mother be offend that Madame Stahl seem to avoid make her acquaintance .
Kitty do not insist .
' she be wonderfully sweet ! ' she say , look at Varenka . who be hand a tumbler to the Frenchwoman . ' see how naturally and sweetly she do it . '
' how absurd your infatuation be , ' say the Princess . ' come , we would well turn back , ' she add , as she notice Levin come toward they with his lady and a german doctor , to whom he be talk loudly and angrily .
they be just turn to go back , when they suddenly hear voice not merely loud , but shout .
Levin have stop and be shout , and the doctor be also excited .
a crowd collect about they .
the Princess and Kitty withdraw hurriedly , but the Colonel join the crowd to find out what the noise be all about .
in a few minute he overtake Kitty and her mother .
' what be the matter ? ' ask the Princess .
' it be shameful and scandalous , ' reply the Colonel . ' the one thing to fear be meet Russians abroad .
that tall gentleman have be quarrel with the doctor and insult he , because he be dissatisfied with the doctor 's treatment . he shake his stick at he !
it be simply shameful ! '
' ah , how unpleasant ! ' say the Princess . ' but how do it all end ? '
' luckily that ... you know the girl with a hat like a mushroom – she be russian , I think – intervene , ' say the Colonel .
' Mlle Varenka ? ' ask Kitty in a pleased tone .
' yes , yes .
she know what to do before anyone else . she take that fellow by the arm and lead he away . '
' there , Mama , ' say Kitty . ' and you be surprised that I admire she . '
the next day , watch her unknown friend , Kitty notice that she be already on the same footing with Levin and his young woman as she be with her other protégés .
she go up to they , talk to they , and act as interpreter for the woman , who speak nothing but russian .
Kitty beg her mother more than ever to allow she to make Varenka 's acquaintance , and , much as the Princess disliked appear to take the first step toward getting acquaint with Madame Stahl , who allow herself to be proud of something or other , she make inquiry about Varenka , and , having learn particular which allow she to conclude that though there might be little good there would be no harm in this acquaintance , she herself approach Varenka .
choose a moment when her daughter have go to the well and Varenka have stop in front of a baker 's shop , the Princess go up to she .
' allow I to introduce myself , ' say the Princess with her dignified smile . ' my daughter have fall in love with you .
perhaps you do not know I . I ... '
' it be more than mutual , Princess , ' reply Varenka hurriedly .
' what a good action you perform yesterday for our unfortunate fellow - countryman ! ' say the Princess .
Varenka blush .
' I do not remember ; I do not think I do anything , ' say she .
' oh , yes , you save that Levin from unpleasantness . '
' well , you see , his companion call I , and I try to soothe he ; he be very ill and be dissatisfied with his doctor .
I be use to look after invalid of that kind . '
' oh , yes , I have hear that you live in Mentone with your aunt , I think , Madame Stahl .
I know her sister - in - law . '
' no , she be not my aunt .
I call she Mama , but I be not relate to she . she adopt I , ' answer Varenka , and blush again .
this be say so simply , and the frank and open expression of her face be so amiable , that the Princess understand what make Kitty so fond of this Varenka .
' well , and what about that Levin ? '
' he be leave , ' answer Varenka .
just then Kitty , beam with joy that her mother have make acquaintance with her unknown friend , return from the well .
' there , Kitty , your great wish to make acquaintance with Mlle ... '
' Varenka , ' prompt Varenka with a smile , ' everybody call I so . '
Kitty blush with joy , long and silently press her new friend 's hand , which lie passively in hers .
but though her hand do not return the pressure , Mlle Varenka 's face shine with a soft and pleased , though rather sad , smile , which disclose her large but splendid tooth .
' I have long wish it myself , ' she say .
' but you be so busy ... '
' oh , on the contrary , I have no occupation at all , ' answer Varenka ; but at that very moment she have to leave her new friend because two little russian girl , the child of one of the invalid , run up to she .
' Varenka , Mama want you ! ' they shout .
and Varenka go with they .
the PARTICULARS the PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKAYA learnt about Varenka 's past and about her relation with Madame Stahl , and about Madame Stahl herself , be the follow :
Madame Stahl , of whom some people say that she have torment her husband to death , while other say that , by his immoral conduct , he have torment she , have always be a sickly and ecstatic woman .
when her first baby be bear , she be already divorce from her husband , it die at once ; and her relation , know how susceptible she be and fear that this news might kill she , change her dead child for one who have be bear that night in the same house in Petersburg , the daughter of a chef at a palace .
that child be Varenka .
Madame Stahl learn afterwards that Varenka be not her daughter , but continue to bring she up , the more readily because it happen that very soon Varenka have no relation leave .
Madame Stahl have live continuously abroad in the South for more than ten year , hardly ever leave her bed .
some people say that she have make for herself a position in Society by her pose as a philanthropic and highly religious woman ; other say that she really be the highly moral being , live only to do good , that she seem to be .
no one know what her religion be : Roman Catholic , protestant , or Greek Orthodox , but one thing be certain , namely , that she be in friendly relation with the most highly - place personage of all the church and denomination .
Varenka always live with she abroad , and all who know Madame Stahl know and like Mlle Varenka , as everybody call she .
having learn all these particular , the Princess see nothing to object to in a friendship between her daughter and Varenka , especially as Varenka 's manner and education be excellent – she speak french and English admirably , and , above all , she bring Madame Stahl 's regret at having be deprive through illness of the pleasure of make the Princess 's acquaintance .
when she have make Varenka 's acquaintance Kitty become more and more fascinated by her friend and find new virtue in she every day .
the Princess , having hear that Varenka sing very well , invite she to come and sing to they one evening .
' Kitty play , and we have a piano , – though not a good one , – and you would give we great pleasure , ' say the Princess with her feign smile , which be especially unpleasant to Kitty now because she notice that Varenka do not wish to sing .
Varenka , however , come in the evening and bring her music .
the Princess have also invite Mary Evgenyevna with her daughter and the Colonel .
Varenka do not seem at all abash by the fact that stranger be present , and she go straight up to the piano .
she could not accompany herself but she sing at sight admirably .
Kitty , who play well , accompany she .
' you have an exceptional talent , ' say the Princess , after Varenka have sing her first song excellently .
Mary Evgenyevna and her daughter thank she and praise her singing .
' see , ' say the Colonel , look out of the window , ' what an audience have assemble to hear you . ' underneath the window a considerable crowd really have collect .
' I be very glad it give you pleasure , ' say Varenka simply .
Kitty look at her friend with pride .
she be enrapture by her singing , her voice , her face , and above all by her manner , – by the fact that Varenka evidently attach no importance to her own singing and be quite indifferent to the praise she get ; she only seem to ask : ' have I to sing again or be it enough ? '
' if it be I , ' think Kitty , ' how proud I should feel !
how glad I should be to see that crowd under the window !
but she be quite indifferent .
she only wish not to refuse , and to give Mama pleasure .
what be it in she ?
what give she this power to disregard everything and to be so quietly independent ?
how I should like to know this , and to learn it from she ! ' think Kitty , gaze into the calm face .
the Princess ask Varenka to sing again , and she sing another song just as truly , clearly , and well , stand straight at the piano , and beat time on it with her thin brown hand .
the next piece in the music book be an italian song .
Kitty play the prelude and look round at Varenka .
' let we skip this one , ' say Varenka , blushing .
Kitty anxiously and inquiringly fix her eye on Varenka 's face .
' well then , another one , ' she say , hurriedly turn over the page , immediately realize that there be something particular connect with that song .
' no , ' answer Varenka , put her hand on the music and smile . ' no , let we sing that one . ' and she sing the piece just as calmly , coldly , and well as the previous one .
when she have finish everybody again thank she and go to drink tea .
but Kitty and Varenka go out into the little garden belong to the house .
' be I not right , you have some memory attach to that song ? ' ask Kitty . ' do not tell I about it , ' she add hurriedly , ' only say if I be right ! '
' why not ?
I will tell you , ' say Varenka simply and without wait for a reply continue : ' yes , there be a memory attach to it and it be painful once .
I love a man and use to sing that song to he . '
Kitty , deeply move , gaze silently with wide - open eye at Varenka .
' I love he and he love I ; but his mother would not have it , and he marry another .
he live not far from we now , and I see he sometimes .
you do not think that I too have have a romance ? ' she say , and on her handsome face there flicker for an instant a spark of the fire which , Kitty feel , have once light up her whole being .
' I – not think it ?
why , if I be a man I could not have love anyone else after know you .
but I can not understand how , to satisfy his mother , he could forget you and make you unhappy . he must be quite heartless . '
' oh no . he be a very good man , and I be not unhappy ; on the contrary , I be very happy .
well , we sha not sing any more to - day ? ' she add , and go toward the house .
' how good you be , how good ! ' exclaim Kitty , stop she and kiss she . ' if only I could be a little bit like you ! '
' why should you be like anyone ?
you be very good as you be , ' say Varenka , smile her gentle , weary smile .
' no , I be not at all good .
but tell I ...
wait a bit , let we sit down again , ' say Kitty , make Varenka sit down on a garden seat beside she . ' tell I , be it possible that you be not offend at the thought that a man despise your love ?
' but he do not despise it ; I believe that he love I , but he be an obedient son ... '
' yes , but if it have not be his mother 's doing , but his own ? ' say Kitty , feel that she have give away her secret and that her face , burn with a blush of shame , have already betray she .
' then he would have behave badly and I should not regret he , ' reply Varenka , evidently conscious that they be now speak not about she but about Kitty .
' but the humiliation ? ' say Kitty . ' one can not forget the humiliation , one can not , ' and she remember the look she give Vronsky at the ball , when the music stop .
' where be the humiliation ?
you do not do anything wrong ? '
' bad than wrong , shameful . '
Varenka shake her head and put her hand on Kitty 's .
' shameful in what respect ? ' she say . ' you could not have tell a man who be himself indifferent to you that you love he ? '
' of course not ; I never say a single word , but he know it .
no , no ; there be such thing as look and way of behave .
if I live to be a hundred I shall never forget it . '
' what do it matter ?
I do not understand .
the question be , do you love he now or not ? ' say Varenka , call everything by its plain name .
' I hate he : and I can not forgive myself . '
' but what do it matter ? '
' the shame , the humiliation ... '
' dear I , if every one be as sensitive as you be ! ' say Varenka . ' there be no girl who have not go through the same sort of thing .
and it be all so unimportant . '
' then what be important ? ' ask Kitty , look into her face with surprised curiosity .
' ah , many thing be important , ' reply Varenka , not know what to say .
but at that moment they hear the Princess 's voice from the window :
' Kitty , it be get chilly !
either take a shawl or come in . '
' yes , I really must be go ! ' say Varenka , rise .
' I have to look in at Madame Berthe 's ; she ask I to . '
Kitty hold her hand , and with passionate curiosity and entreaty question Varenka with her eye : ' what – what be most important ? what give you such peace ?
you know , tell I ! '
but Varenka do not even understand what Kitty 's eye be ask .
she only know that she have to call on Madame Berthe and get home in time for Mama 's midnight tea .
she go in , collect her music , and having say good - night to everybody , prepare to go .
' allow I to see you home , ' say the Colonel .
' yes , how can you go alone at this time of night ? ' agree the Princess . ' I will at any rate send Parasha with you . '
Kitty notice that Varenka have difficulty in suppress a smile at the idea that she need anyone to see her home .
' oh no , I always go out alone and nothing ever happen to I , ' she say , take up her hat .
and kiss Kitty again , but without tell she what be most important , she go out with vigorous step with her music under her arm , and disappear in the semidarkness of the summer night , carry with she the secret of what be important , and to what she owe her enviable tranquillity and dignity .
KITTY also BECAME ACQUAINTED with Madame Stahl , and this acquaintanceship , together with Varenka 's friendship not only have a great influence on Kitty , but comfort she in her sorrow .
what comfort she be that a perfectly new world be reveal to she , a world that have nothing in common with her past : an exalted , admirable world , from the height of which it be possible to regard that past calmly .
it be reveal to she that besides that instinctive life she have live hitherto there be also a spiritual life .
that life be reveal by religion , but a religion that have nothing in common with that which Kitty have know since her childhood and which find expression in Mass and vesper at the private chapel of the Widows ' Almshouse where one could meet one 's friend , and in learn slavonic text by heart with the priest . this be a lofty , mystical religion connect with a series of beautiful thought and feeling , which it be not only possible to believe because one be tell to , but even to love .
Kitty do not learn all this from word .
Madame Stahl speak with she as with a dear child who give one pleasure by remind one of one 's own past , and only once mention that love and faith alone can bring relief in all human sorrow and that no sorrow be too trivial for Christ 's compassion . then she immediately change the subject .
but in Madame Stahl 's every movement , every word , every ' heavenly ' look ( as Kitty call it ) , and especially in the whole story of her life , which Kitty learn from Varenka , she discover what be important and what she have not know before .
but however lofty may have be Madame Stahl 's character , however touch her story , and however elevated and tender her word , Kitty could not help notice some perplexing trait in she .
she notice that Madame Stahl , when inquire about Kitty 's relative , smile contemptuously , which do not accord with christian kindness .
and once , when Kitty meet a roman catholic priest at the house , she observe that Madame Stahl carefully hide her face behind the lampshade and smile in a peculiar manner .
trifle as these thing be , they disturb Kitty , and she feel doubt about Madame Stahl .
but Varenka , lonely , without relative or friend , with her sad disillusionment , wish for nothing and regret nothing , personify that perfection of which Kitty only allow herself to dream .
in Varenka she see that it be only necessary to forget oneself and to love other in order to be at peace , happy , and lovely .
and such a person Kitty wish to be .
having now clearly understand what be most important , Kitty be not content merely to delight in it , but immediately with her whole soul devote herself to this newly reveal life .
she form a plan for her future life , base on what Varenka tell she about the work of Madame Stahl and of other whom she name .
like Madame Stahl 's niece , Aline , of whom Varenka tell she a great deal , Kitty determine , wherever she live , to seek out the unfortunate , help they as much as she could , distribute Gospels , and read the gospel to the sick , to criminal , and to the dying .
the idea of read the Gospels to criminal , as Aline do , charm Kitty particularly .
but all these be secret dream , which she do not speak of either to her mother or to Varenka .
however , while wait for the time when she could put her plan into operation on a large scale , Kitty , imitate Varenka , here at the watering - place where there be so many sick and unhappy people , easily find opportunity to apply her new rule .
at first the Princess only notice that Kitty be strongly influence by her engoument , [ infatuation . ] as she call it , for Madame Stahl and especially for Varenka .
she notice that Kitty not only imitate Varenka 's activity , but involuntarily copy her manner of walk , speak , and blink her eye .
but afterwards the Princess also notice that , apart from this infatuation , a serious spiritual change be take place in her daughter .
she see that in the evening Kitty read the Gospels in French ( give she by Madame Stahl ) – which she have not do before – that she avoid her Society acquaintance and make up to the invalid who be under Varenka 's protection , and especially to the family of Petrov , a poor , sick artist .
Kitty evidently pride herself on fulfil the duty of a sister - of - mercy in that family .
this be all very well , and the Princess have nothing against it , especially as Petrov 's wife be quite a well - breed woman , and the German Princess , having notice Kitty 's activity , praise she , call she a minister angel .
it would have be quite right have it not be overdone .
but the Princess see that her daughter be get out of bound and speak to she about it .
' Il ne faut jamais rien outrer , ' [ you should never overdo anything . ] she say to she one day .
but her daughter do not reply ; she only feel in her soul that one could not speak of overdo Christianity .
how be it possible to exaggerate , when follow the teaching which bid we turn the other cheek when we be strike , and give our coat when our cloak be take ?
but the Princess dislike this excess , and dislike it all the more because she feel that Kitty do not wish to open her whole heart to she .
and Kitty really do hide her new view and feeling from her mother .
she keep they secret not from want of respect and love , but just because her mother be her mother .
she would have reveal they to anyone soon than to she .
' it seem a long time since Anna Pavlovna be here , ' say the Princess once , speak of Mrs Petrova .
' I invite she and she do not seem pleased . '
' I do not notice anything , Mama , ' say Kitty , flush up .
' be it long since you go to see they ? '
' we be all arrange to go for a drive up the mountain to - morrow , ' reply Kitty .
' well , go if you like , ' say the Princess , look intently into her daughter 's confused face and try to guess the cause of her confusion .
that same day Varenka come to dinner , and say that Anna Pavlovna have change her mind about go to the mountain tomorrow .
the Princess notice that Kitty blush again .
' Kitty , have you not have some unpleasantness with the Petrovs ? ' the Princess ask when they be again alone together . ' why have she stop send the child here and come herself ? '
Kitty reply that nothing have pass between they and that she do not at all understand why Anna Pavlovna seem dissatisfied with she .
Kitty speak the truth : she do not know why Anna Pavlovna have change toward she , but she guess it .
she guess it to be something that she could not tell her mother and do not even say to herself .
it be one of those thing which one know and yet can not say even to oneself – so dreadful and shameful would it be to make a mistake .
again and again she go over in memory all the relation she have have with that family .
she remember the naive pleasure express in Anna Pavlovna 's round , good - natured face whenever they meet , remember their secret consultation about the patient , and their plot to draw he away from his work which the doctor have forbid and to take he for walk , and the attachment to she feel by the young boy , who call she ' my Kitty , ' and do not want to go to bed without she .
how good it have all be !
then she recall Petrov 's thin , emaciated figure in his brown coat , with his long neck , his thin , curly hair , his inquire blue eye – which have at first seem to her terrible , – and his sickly effort to appear vigorous and animate in her presence .
she remember her first effort to conquer the repulsion she feel for he , as for all consumptive , and her effort to find something to say to he .
she remember the timid look , full of emotion , with which he gaze at she , and the strange feeling of compassion and awkwardness follow by a consciousness of her own benevolence , that she have experience .
how good it have all be !
but all that have be at first .
now for some day past all have suddenly be spoilt .
Anna Pavlovna now meet Kitty with affected amiability and constantly watch her husband and she .
could his touching pleasure when she draw near be the cause of Anna Pavlovna 's coldness ?
' yes , ' she remember , ' there be something unnatural in Anna Pavlovna , quite unlike her usual kindness , when the day before yesterday she say crossly : ' -"there , he have be wait for you and would not drink his coffee without you , though he be grow dreadfully weak . "
' yes , and perhaps my give he his plaid may also have be unpleasant to she .
it be such a simple thing , but he take it so awkwardly , and thank I so much that I myself feel awkward .
and then that portrait of I , which he do so well !
and above all – that look , confused and tender ...
yes , yes , it be so ! ' Kitty say to herself quite horrified ; and then , ' no , it be impossible , it must not be !
he be so pathetic . '
this doubt poison her delight in her new life .
quite TOWARD the END of the season Prince Shcherbatsky , who from Carlsbad have go on to Baden and Kissingen to see some russian friend and to ' inhale some russian spirit , ' as he express it , return to his family .
the view of the Prince and Princess on life abroad be diametrically oppose .
the Princess find everything admirable , and , in spite of her firmly - establish position in Russian Society try when abroad to appear like a european lady , which she be not – be thoroughly russian . she therefore become somewhat artificial , which make she feel uncomfortable .
the Prince , on the contrary , consider everything foreign detestable and life abroad oppressive , and keep to his russian habit , purposely try to appear more unlike a European than he really be .
he return look thin , with the skin on his cheek hang loose , but in the bright of spirit .
his spirit be still well when he see Kitty completely recover .
the news of her friendship with Madame Stahl and Varenka , and the information the Princess give he of the change she have observe in Kitty , disturb he and arouse in he his usual feeling of jealousy toward anything that draw his daughter away from he and of fear lest she might escape from his influence into region inaccessible to he .
but these unpleasant rumour be soon drown in that sea of kind - hearted cheerfulness which be always within he and which be increase by the Carlsbad water .
the day after his arrival the Prince , attire in a long overcoat , and with his russian wrinkle , and his slightly puffy cheek support by a stiff collar , go out in the bright of spirit to the Springs with his daughter .
the morning be lovely : the bright , tidy house with their little garden , the sight of the red - faced , red - armed , beer - saturate german housemaid , and the clear sunshine , cheer the heart ; but the near one come to the spring the more often one meet sick people , whose appearance seem yet sad amid these customary well - order condition of german life .
Kitty be no long strike by this contrast .
the bright sunshine , the gay glitter of the green tree , and the sound of music have become for she the natural framework of all these familiar figure , and of the change for well or for bad which she watch . but to the Prince the radiance of the June morning , the sound of the band play a fashionable and merry valse , and particularly the appearance of the sturdy maid - servant , seem improper and monstrous in contrast with all those melancholy living - corpse collect from all part of Europe .
in spite of the pride and the sense of renew youth which he experience while walk arm - in - arm with his favourite daughter , he feel almost awkward and ashamed of his powerful stride and his large healthy limb .
he have almost the feeling that might be cause by appear in company without clothe .
' introduce I , introduce I to your new friend , ' he say to his daughter , press her arm with his elbow . ' I have even take a liking to your nasty Soden because it have do you so much good .
but it be sad – this place of yours , very sad .
who be that ? '
Kitty tell he the name of the acquaintance and other whom they meet .
just at the entrance to the garden they meet the blind Madame Berthe with her guide , and the Prince be pleased by the tender look on the old Frenchwoman 's face when she hear Kitty 's voice .
with french exaggeration she at once begin talk to he , admire he for have such a delightful daughter , and in Kitty 's presence praise she up to the sky , call she a treasure , a pearl , and a minister angel .
' then she must be angel no . 2 , ' the Prince remark with a smile . ' she call Mlle Varenka angel no . 1 . '
' oh , Mlle Varenka be a real angel , allez , ' say Madame Berthe .
in the gallery they meet Varenka herself .
she be walk hurriedly toward they with an elegant little red bag in her hand .
' see ! Papa have come ! ' say Kitty to she .
simply and naturally , as she do everything , Varenka make a movement between a bow and a curtsy and immediately begin talk to the Prince just as she talk to everybody , easily and naturally .
' of course I know you , I 've hear all about you , ' the Prince say to she with a smile , by which Kitty see with joy that her father like Varenka . ' where be you hurry so to ? '
' Mama be here , ' say she , turn to Kitty . ' she do not sleep all night and the doctor advise she to go out .
I be take she her work . '
' so that be angel no . 1 ! ' say the Prince when Varenka have go . Kitty see that he would have like to make fun of Varenka , but be unable to do so because he like she .
' well , let we see all your friend , ' he add , ' include Madame Stahl , if she will condescend to recognize I . '
' oh , do you know she , Papa ? ' ask Kitty , alarm by an ironical twinkle in the Prince 's eye when he mention Madame Stahl .
' I know her husband and she too , slightly , before she join the Pietists . '
' what be Pietists , Papa ? ' ask Kitty , frighten by the fact that what she value so highly in Madame Stahl have a name .
' I do not know very well myself .
I only know that she thank God for everything , include all misfortune , ... and thank God for her husband 's death .
and it seem funny , for they do not get on well together ...
who be that ? what a pitiful face , ' he say , notice an invalid of medium height who sit on a bench in a brown coat and white trouser which fall into strange fold over his emaciated leg .
the man raise his straw hat above his thin curly hair , uncover a tall forehead with an unhealthy redness where the hat have press it .
' it be Petrov , an artist , ' Kitty reply , blushing . ' and that be his wife , ' she add , indicate Anna Pavlovna , who on their approach go away with apparent intention , follow a child who have run along the path .
' poor man , what a nice face he have ! ' say the Prince . ' why do you not go up to he ?
he look as if he wish to say something to you . '
' well , come back then , ' say Kitty , turn resolutely . ' how be you to - day ? ' she ask Petrov .
Petrov rise with the aid of a stick and look timidly at the Prince .
' this be my daughter , ' say the Prince , ' allow I to introduce myself . '
the artist bow and smile , expose his strangely glisten white tooth .
' we be expect you yesterday , Princess , ' he say to Kitty .
he stagger as he say it , and to make it appear as if he have do this intentionally , he repeat the movement .
' I mean to come , but Varenka tell I that Anna Pavlovna send word that you be not go . '
' not go ? ' say Petrov , flush and immediately begin to cough and look round for his wife . ' Annetta , Annetta ! ' he say loudly , and the vein in his white neck protrude like thick cord .
Anna Pavlovna draw near .
' how be it you send word to the Princess that we be not go ? ' he say in an irritable whisper , his voice fail he .
' good morning , Princess , ' say Anna Pavlovna with a forced smile , quite unlike her former way of greet Kitty . ' I be very pleased to make your acquaintance , ' she go on , turn to the Prince . ' you have long be expect , Prince ! '
' how be it you send to tell the Princess we be not go ? ' the painter whisper hoarsely and still more angrily , evidently irritated because his voice fail he and he could not give his word the expression he desire .
' oh , dear I !
I think we be not go , ' say his wife with vexation .
' how so ? when ... ' he be interrupt by a fit of coughing , and make a hopeless gesture with his hand .
the Prince raise his hat and go away with his daughter . ' oh , oh ! ' he sigh deeply . ' what poor thing ! '
' yes , Papa , ' reply Kitty . ' and you know they have three child , no servant , and hardly any mean .
he receive something from the Academy , ' she explain animatedly , try to stifle the excitement result from the strange alteration in Anna Pavlovna 's manner toward she .
' and there be Madame Stahl , ' say Kitty , point to a bath - chair on which , under a sunshade , lie something support by pillow , wrap up in grey and pale - blue .
it be Madame Stahl .
behind she be a sullen - look , robust german workman who push her bath - chair .
at her side stand a fair - haired Swedish Count , whom Kitty know by name .
several patient linger near by , gaze at this lady as at something out of the common .
the Prince approach she , and Kitty immediately notice in his eye that ironical spark which so disturb she .
he go up to Madame Stahl , and speak to she extremely politely and nicely in that excellent French which so very few people speak nowadays .
' I do not know whether you will remember I , but I must recall myself to you in order to thank you for your kindness to my daughter , ' he say , raise his hat and not put it on again .
' Prince Alexander Shcherbatsky , ' say Madame Stahl , lift toward he her heavenly eye , in which Kitty detect displeasure . ' I be very pleased .
I have grow very fond of your daughter . '
' your health be still not good ? '
' no , but I be accustomed to it , ' say Madame Stahl and introduce the Swedish Count to the Prince .
' you be very little change , ' say the Prince . ' I have not have the honour of see you for ten or eleven year . '
' yes , God send a cross and give the strength to bear it .
it often seem strange to think why this life should drag on ...
on that side ! ' she say irritably to Varenka , who be not wrap the plaid round her foot the right way .
' to do good , probably , ' say the Prince , whose eye be laugh .
' that be not for we to judge , ' say Madame Stahl , detect a something hardly perceptible on the Prince 's face .
' then you will send I that book , dear Count thank you very much , ' she add , turn to the young swede .
' ah ! ' exclaim the Prince , see the Moscow Colonel stand near by , and with a bow to Madame Stahl he move away with his daughter and with the Moscow Colonel , who have join they .
' that be our aristocracy , Prince ! ' remark the Colonel , wish to appear sarcastic . he have a pique against Madame Stahl because she do not wish to be acquaint with he .
' always the same , ' answer the Prince .
' do you know she before her illness , Prince ? I mean before she be lay up ? '
' yes , I know she when she first become an invalid . '
' I hear she have not be up for ten year . '
' she do not get up , because her leg be too short . she have a very bad figure ... '
' papa , impossible ! ' exclaim Kitty .
' evil tongue say so , my love . but your Varenka do get it , ' he add .
' oh , those invalid lady ! ' ' oh no , Papa , ' Kitty object warmly .
' Varenka adore she . and besides , she do so much good !
ask anyone you like ! everybody know she and Aline Stahl . '
' perhaps , ' he say , press her arm with his elbow . ' but it be well to do good so that , ask whom you will , no one know anything about it . '
Kitty be silent , not because she have nothing to say but because she do not want to reveal her secret thought even to her father .
yet – strange to say – though she have make up her mind not to submit to her father 's opinion and not to let he enter her sanctuary , she feel that the divine image of Madame Stahl which she have carry in her bosom for a whole month have irrevocably vanish , as the figure form by a cast - off garment vanish when one realize how the garment be lie .
there remain only a short - legged woman who be always lie down because she have a bad figure , and who torment poor unresiste Varenka for not tuck her plaid the right way .
and by no effort of imagination could the former Madame Stahl be recall .
chapter XXXV
the PRINCE IMPARTED his good spirit to his household , his friend , and even to his german landlord .
on return from the Spring with Kitty , the Prince , who have invite the Colonel , Mary Evgenyevna , and Varenka to come and take coffee , have a table and chair bring out into the garden under a chestnut tree and breakfast lay there .
the landlord and the servant brighten up under his influence .
they know his generosity , and in a quarter of an hour the sick Hamburg doctor , who live upstairs , be look with envy from his window at the merry party of healthy Russians gather under the chestnut tree .
beneath the tremble shadow - circle of the leave , around a table cover with a white cloth and set out with coffee - pot , bread , butter , cheese and cold game , sit the Princess in a cap with lilac ribbon , hand out cup of coffee and sandwich .
at the other end sit the Prince , make a substantial meal and talk loudly and merrily .
he spread out his purchase before he : carve casket , spillikin and paper - knife of all kind , of which he have buy quantity at all the different watering - place , and he give they away to everybody , include Lischen , the maid , and the landlord , with whom he joke in his funny broken German , assure he that not the water have cure Kitty but his excellent food , especially his plum soup .
the Princess laugh at her husband for his russian way , but be lively and bright than she have ever be during her stay at the watering - place .
the Colonel smile , as he always do at the Prince 's joke ; but with regard to Europe ( which he think he have carefully study ) he side with the Princess .
the good - natured Mary Evgenyevna shake with laughter at everything the amusing Prince say , and even Varenka , in a way new to Kitty , succumb to the feeble but infectious laughter inspire by the Prince 's joke .
all this cheer Kitty up , but she could not help be trouble .
she could not solve the problem unconsciously set she by her father 's jocular view of her friend and of the life she have begin to love so much .
to this problem be add the change in her relation with the Petrovs , which have be so clearly and unpleasantly demonstrate that morning .
everybody be merry , but Kitty could not be merry , and this trouble she still more .
she feel almost as she use to feel when , as a child , she be lock up in a room for punishment and hear her sister 's merry laughter .
' now , why have you buy that mass of thing ? ' ask the Princess , smile and pass her husband a cup of coffee .
' one go out walk , come to a shop , and they ask one to buy something . it be " Erlaucht , Excellenz , Durchlaucht . "
[ Eminence , Excellence , Serene Highness . ] well , by the time they get to " Durchlaucht " I can not resist , and ten thaler be go . '
' that be all because you be bored , ' say the Princess .
' bore , of course I be !
the time hang so heavy , my dear , that one do not know what to do with oneself . '
' how can you be bored , Prince ?
there be so much that be interesting in Germany now , ' say Mary Evgenyevna .
but I know all your interesting thing : plum - soup and pea - sausage . I know they .
I know it all . '
' no , say what you please , Prince , their institution be interesting , ' say the Colonel .
' what be there interesting about they ?
they be as self - satisfied as brass farthing ; they 've conquer everybody .
now tell I what be I to be pleased about ?
I have not conquer anybody , but here I have to take off my own boot and even put they outside the door myself .
in the morning I have to get up and dress at once and go down to the dining - room to drink bad tea .
be it like that at home ?
there one wake up without any hurry , get a bit cross about something , grumble a bit , come well to one 's sense , and think everything well over without hurry . '
' but " time be money , " do not forget that , ' say the Colonel .
' it all depend on what time !
there be time when one would give a whole month for a shilling and there be time when you would not give half an hour at any price .
be not that so , Kitty ?
why be you so glum ? '
' I be all right . '
' where be you off to ?
stay a little long , ' he say , turn to Varenka .
' I must get home , ' say Varenka , rise and burst into another fit of laughter . when she have recover , she take leave and go into the house for her hat .
Kitty follow she .
even Varenka seem different now .
she be not bad , but different from what Kitty previously have imagine she to be .
' oh dear , I have not laugh so much for a long time ! ' say Varenka , collect her sunshade and bag . ' what a dear your Papa be ! '
Kitty remain silent .
' when shall we meet ? ' ask Varenka .
' Mama be go to call on the Petrovs .
will you be there ? ' ask Kitty , try to sound Varenka .
' I will , ' answer Varenka . ' they be prepare to leave , so I have promise to help they pack . '
' then I will come too . '
' no , why should you ? '
' why not , why not , why not ? ' ask Kitty with wide - open eye , and hold Varenka 's sunshade to prevent she go . ' no , wait a bit , and tell I why not . '
' oh , nothing . only your Papa have return , and they do not feel at ease with you . '
' no , no , tell I why you do not wish I to be often at the Petrovs ?
you do not , do you ?
why ? '
' I have not say so , ' reply Varenka quietly .
' no , please tell I ! '
' shall I tell you everything ? ' say Varenka .
' everything , everything ! ' say Kitty .
' there be nothing special to tell , only Petrov use to want to leave soon but now do not want to go , ' say Varenka smile .
' well , go on , ' Kitty hurry she , look at she with a frown .
' well , I do not know why , but Anna Pavlovna say he do not want to go , because you be here .
of course that be tactless , but they quarrel about you .
and you know how excitable such invalid be . '
Kitty frown yet more , and remain silent , and only Varenka speak , try to soften and soothe Kitty , and foresee an approach explosion of tear or word , she know not which .
' so it be well for you not to go ...
and , you understand , do not be hurt ... '
' it serve I right , it serve I right ! ' Kitty begin hurriedly , snatch Varenka 's sunshade out of her hand , and look past her friend 's eye .
Varenka feel like smile at her friend 's childish anger but fear to offend she .
' why – serve you right ?
I do not understand , ' she say .
' it serve I right because it be all pretence , all invent and not heartfelt .
what business have I with a stranger ?
so it come about that I be the cause of a quarrel , and have be do what nobody ask I to do .
because it be all pretence , pretence and pretence ! ... '
' but what motive have you for pretend ? ' say Varenka softly .
' oh , how stupid , how stupid !
there be no need at all ...
it be all pretence ! ' Kitty say , open and shut the sunshade .
' but with what object ? '
' to appear well than other to myself and to God – to deceive everybody .
no , I shall not give in to that again !
let I be bad , but at any rate not false , not a humbug ! '
' but who be a " humbug " ? ' ask Varenka reproachfully . ' you speak as if ... '
but Kitty be in one of her fit of passion .
she would not let Varenka finish .
' I be not talk about you , not about you at all .
you be perfection .
yes , yes , you be all perfection but how can I help it if I be bad ?
it would not have happen if I be not bad .
so let I be what I be , but not pretend .
what be Anna Pavlovna to I ?
let they live as they like , and I will live as I like .
I can not be different ...
and it be all not the thing , not the thing ! '
' but what be not the thing ? ' say Varenka , quite perplexed .
' it be all not the thing .
I can not live except by my own heart , but you live by principle .
I have love you quite simply , but you , I expect , only in order to save I , to teach I . '
' you be unjust , ' say Varenka .
' but I be not talk about other , only about myself . '
' Kitty ! ' come her mother 's voice , ' come here and show Papa your coral . '
Kitty take from the table a little box which hold the coral , and with a proud look , without having make it up with her friend , go to where her mother be .
' what be the matter ?
why be you so red ? ' ask both her mother and father together .
' nothing , ' she say . ' I will come back in a minute , ' and run away .
' she be still here , ' think Kitty . ' what shall I say to she ?
oh dear ! what have I do , what have I say ?
why have I offend she ?
what be I to do ? what shall I say to she ? ' think Kitty and stop at the door .
Varenka , with her hat on , sit at the table examine the spring of her sunshade , which Kitty have break .
she look up .
' Varenka , forgive I , forgive I ! ' whisper Kitty , come close to she . ' I do not remember what I say . '
' really , I do not wish to distress you , ' say Varenka with a smile .
peace be make .
but with her father 's return the world in which she have be live completely change for Kitty .
she do not renounce all she have learn , but realize that she have deceive herself when think that she could be what she wish to be . it be as if she have recover consciousness ; she feel the difficulty of remain without hypocrisy or boastfulness on the level to which she have wish to rise .
moreover , she feel the oppressiveness of that world of sorrow , sickness and death in which she be live . the effort she have be make to love it , now seem torment , and she long to get away quickly to the fresh air , back to Russia , to Ergushovo , where as she know from a letter her sister Dolly have move with the child .
but her affection for Varenka be not weaken .
when take leave of she , Kitty try to persuade she to come and stay with they in Russia .
' I will come when you be married , ' say Varenka .
' I shall never marry . '
' well , then , I shall never come . '
' then I will marry for that purpose only .
mind now , do not forget your promise ! ' say Kitty .
the doctor 's prediction be justify .
Kitty return to Russia quite cured !
she be not as careless and light - hearted as before , but she be at peace . her old Moscow sorrow be no more than a memory .
PART III
SERGIUS IVANICH KOZNYSHEV , wish to take a rest from mental work , go to stay with his brother in the country instead of go abroad as usual .
accord to his view country life be preferable to any other , and he have now come to his brother 's house to enjoy it .
Constantine Levin be very pleased , especially as he no long expect his brother Nicholas to come that summer .
but in spite of his affection and respect for Koznyshev , Constantine do not feel at ease with his step - brother in the country .
to Constantine the country be the place where one live – that be to say , where one rejoice , suffer , and labour ; but to Koznyshev the country be , on the one hand , a place of rest from work , and on the other , a useful antidote to depravity , an antidote to which he resort with pleasure and with a consciousness of its utility .
to Constantine the country seem a good place because it be the scene of unquestionably useful labour ; to Koznyshev it seem good because one could and should do nothing there .
besides this , Koznyshev 's attitude toward the peasant jar on Constantine .
Koznyshev be will not to say that he know and love the common people : he often converse with peasant , and be able to do it well , frankly , and without affectation , deduce from every such conversation datum in the peasant ' favour and proof of his own knowledge of the people .
Constantine regard the peasant as the chief partner in a common undertaking , and despite his respect and the feeling of a blood - tie – probably , as he say , suck in with the milk of his peasant nurse – he as partner in their common undertaking , though often fill with admiration for the strength , meekness , and justice of these people , be very often ( when the business require other quality ) exasperate with they for their carelessness , untidiness , drunkenness , and untruthfulness .
have Constantine be ask whether he like the peasant , he would not have know what to answer .
he both like and dislike they , just as he like and dislike all human being .
with his natural kind heart he of course like human being more than he dislike they , and naturally the peasant be include ; but he could not like or dislike the people as if they be something apart , because he not only live among they , his interest closely bind up with theirs , but he consider himself one of the people and could not find in himself any special quality or defect which place he in contrast with they .
moreover , though he have long live in very close relation with the peasant , as their master , mediator , and above all as their adviser ( the peasant trust he , and would often come thirty mile to consult he ) , he have no definite opinion concern they . have he be ask whether he know the people , he would have be just as much at a loss for a reply as he be for a reply to the question whether he like they .
to say that he know the peasant be tantamount to say that he know human being .
he continually observe and learn to know all sort of human being , among they human being of the peasant class , whom he consider interesting , constantly discover in they new trait and alter his opinion accordingly .
Koznyshev , on the other hand , just as he praise country life as a contrast to the life he dislike , like the peasant as a contrast to the class he dislike and regard they as a contrast to humanity in general .
his methodical mind have form definite view on the life of the people , found partly on that life itself , but chiefly on its contrast .
he never alter his opinion about the people nor his sympathetic attitude toward they .
in the dispute which take place between the brother when discuss the peasant , Koznyshev be always victorious , just because he have definite view about they , their character , attribute , and taste ; while Constantine have no definite and fix view , and be often guilty of self - contradiction when argue on that subject .
Koznyshev think his young brother a splendid fellow , with his heart in the right place , but with a mind which , though rather quick , be sway by the impression of the moment and be therefore full of contradiction .
with an eld brother 's condescension he sometimes explain to he the meaning of thing , but could find no pleasure in discussion , because he could gain too easy a victory .
Constantine consider his brother to be a man of great intellect , noble in the high sense of the word , and gift with the power of work for the general welfare .
but the old he grow and the more intimately he come to know his brother , the oftener the thought occur to he that the power of work for the general welfare – a power of which he feel himself entirely destitute – be not a virtue but rather a lack of something : not a lack of kindly honesty and noble desire and taste , but a lack of the power of living , of what be call heart – the aspiration which make a man choose one out of all the innumerable path of life that present themselves , and desire that alone .
the well he know his brother , the more he notice that Koznyshev and many other social worker be not lead to this love for the common good by their heart , but because they have reason out in their mind that it be a good thing to do that kind of work , and take to it accordingly .
what far strengthen this conviction , be notice that his brother do not take the question of the general welfare , or of the immortality of the soul , any more to heart than a game of chess .
another thing which make Constantine Levin feel his brother 's presence inconvenient be that , in the country , especially during the summer , while Levin be always busy with the farm and the long summer day be too short for do all that have to be do , Koznyshev be rest .
but even though he be rest from mental labour and be not write , he be so used to mental activity that he like express his thought in an elegant , concise style , and like have a listener .
his most usual and natural listener be his brother ; and therefore , despite their friendly relation , Constantine feel uncomfortable at leave he alone .
Koznyshev love to lie bask in the sunshine , talk lazily .
' you can not imagine what a pleasure this complete laziness be to I : not a thought in my brain – you might send a ball roll through it ! '
but it weary Constantine to sit listen to he , particularly because he know that during his absence the manure be be cart into the field , and it be impossible to guess where they would throw it if he be not there to see . the ploughshare too would not be screw up properly , or take out ; and then he would be tell that these plough be a silly invention : ' how can they be compare to our old russian plough ? ' and so on .
' have not you walk about enough in this heat ? ' say Koznyshev .
' no ; I must just look in at the counting - house for a moment , ' answer Levin , and off he run to the field .
at the beginning of JUNE Levin 's old nurse and housekeeper , Agatha Mikhaylovna , happen to slip as she be carry to the cellar a jar of mushroom which she have just pickle , and sprain her wrist .
a talkative young medical man who have only just qualified and be appoint doctor for the Zemstvo district arrive , examine the hand , say it be not sprain , and enjoy a talk with the celebrated Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev . he tell he all the gossip of the district to show off his enlighten view and complain of the unsatisfactory condition prevail there .
Koznyshev listen attentively , ask question , and , enliven by the presence of a new listener , become quite chatty , make some pointed and weighty remark respectfully appreciate by the young doctor , and reach that state of animation his brother so well know , which generally follow a brilliant and lively conversation .
after the doctor 's departure Koznyshev feel inclined to go to the river with his fishing rod .
he be fond of angling , and seem proud of be able to like such a stupid occupation .
Constantine , who be oblige to go to the cornfield and meadow , offer to give his brother a lift in his trap .
it be just the time of year , the turning - point of summer , when the result of that year 's harvest becomes assure , when the autumn sowing have to be consider and when the hay harvest be close at hand ; when the grey - green rye wave its form but as yet not swollen ear lightly in the wind ; when the green oats , with irregular clump of yellow grass intersperse , stand unevenly on late - sow field ; when the early buckwheat spread out and hide the ground ; when the fallow land trodden as hard as a stone by the cattle , be half - plough , with here and there long strip omit as too hard for the plough ; when the smell of dry heap of manure in the field mingle with the honeyed perfume of the grass ; and wait for the scythe , the lowland meadow lie smooth as a lake by the river 's bank , show here and there black heap of weeded sorrel stalk .
it be the time of that short pause before the labour , yearly renew , of get in the harvest , which always demand all the peasant ' strength for its accomplishment .
the promise of the harvest be splendid , the weather clear and hot , and the short night dewy .
the brother have to pass through the forest on their way to the meadow .
Koznyshev be all the while fill with admiration for the beauty of the thickly - leave forest , and keep point out to his brother the old lime tree , look so dark on the shady side , cover with creamy bud all ready to burst into blossom ; or the new shoot , sparkle like emerald , on the tree .
Constantine Levin do not like talk or hear about the beauty of nature .
word seem to detract from the beauty of what he be look at .
he assent to what his brother say but could not help think of other thing .
when they emerge from the forest his attention be arrest at the sight of a fallow field and a hillock , here and there yellow with grass or break up and cut into square , in some part speckle with heap of manure , or even plough .
a string of cart be move over the field .
Levin count the cart , and be pleased to see that sufficient manure be be bring . at sight of the meadow his thought turn to the hay harvest .
the thought of the hay harvest always touch he to the quick .
when they reach the meadow Levin stop .
at the root of the thick grass the morning dew still linger , and Koznyshev , afraid of wet his foot , ask his brother to drive he across the meadow to the willow clump near which perch could be catch .
though Constantine be loth to crush his grass , he drive across the meadow .
the tall grass twine softly about the wheel and the horse 's leg , leave seed on the wet spoke and hub .
Koznyshev sit down by the willow , while Levin lead away his horse , and , having tether it , step into the immense grey - green sea of grass , so dense that the wind could not ruffle it .
in the meadow , which be flood every spring , the silky grass , now scatter its seed , reach almost to his waist .
when Constantine Levin have pass right across the meadow and reach the road , he meet an old man with a swollen eye carry a swarm of bee in a skep .
' have you find it , Fomich ? ' he ask .
' find it , indeed , Constantine Dmitrich !
I only hope not to lose my own .
this be the second time a swarm have get away , and it be only thank to those lad there that I 've get this one back .
they be plough for you , and unharness a horse and gallop after ... '
' well , Fomich , what do you think ? shall we begin mow , or wait a little ? '
' oh , well , our custom be to wait till St Peter 's .
Day , but you always mow early .
why not , God willing ?
the grass be fine ; there will be more room for the cattle . '
' and what do you think of the weather '
' that be God 's business – perhaps the weather will keep fine too . '
Levin go back to his brother .
though he have catch nothing , Koznyshev do not feel bored and seem in the good of spirit .
Levin see that he have be rouse by his conversation with the doctor and want to have a talk .
Levin , on the contrary , be impatient to get home in order to give order about hire the mower on the morrow , and to decide about the hay harvest , which greatly occupy his mind .
' well , let us go , ' say he .
' where be the hurry ?
let us sit here a little .
how wet you be !
though nothing bite , it be pleasant ; hunting and similar sport be good because they bring one in touch with nature ...
how lovely this steel - coloured water be ! ' say he . ' and these grassy bank always remind I of that riddle – you know – " the grass say to the water , we will shake , we will shake ... "- '
' I do not know that riddle , ' reply Levin in a dull tone .
' do you know , I 've be think about you , ' say Koznyshev . ' from what the doctor tell I – and he be by no mean a stupid young fellow – the thing go on in your district be simply disgraceful .
I have already tell you , and I say it again , it be not right to stop away from the Zemstvo meeting , and in general to take no part in its activity !
if all the well sort stand aside , of course heaven only know what will happen .
we expend money for salary , but there be no school , no medical assistance , no midwife , no chemist , no anything ! '
' you know I have try , ' Levin reply slowly and reluctantly , ' but I can not ! so what be I to do ? '
' why can not you ?
I confess I do not understand .
I can not admit it to be indifference or inaptitude ; be it possible that it be mere laziness ? '
' neither the one nor the other – nor the last .
I have try and see that I can do nothing , ' say Levin .
he do not pay much attention to what his brother be say .
peer into the distance across the river , he make out something black in the cornfield , and could not see whether it be only a horse or the steward on horseback .
' why can you do nothing ?
you have make an attempt , and because accord to your judgment it be a failure , you give it up .
fancy have so little ambition ! '
' ambition ? ' reiterate Levin , sting by his brother 's word . ' I do not understand it .
if at college they have tell I that other understand the integral calculus and I do not , that would have be a case for ambition ; but in these matter the first requisite be a conviction that one have the necessary ability , and above all that it be all very important . '
' well , and be it not very important ? ' say Koznyshev , stir by the perception that his occupation be regard as unimportant and especially by his brother 's evident inattention to what he be say .
' they do not appear important to I . do what you will , they do not grip I , ' reply Levin , having make out that what he see be the steward , who be probably dismiss the peasant from their ploughing too soon , for they be turn the plough over .
' be it possible they have finish plough ? ' think he .
' come now ! after all , ' continue the eld brother with a frown on his handsome , intelligent face , ' there be limit to everything !
it be all very well to be a crank , to be sincere and dislike hypocrisy – I know that very well – but what you be say have either no meaning at all or a very bad meaning .
how can you consider it unimportant that the people , whom you love , as you maintain ... '
' I never maintain it , ' think Levin ...
' ... be die without help ?
ignorant midwife murder the baby , and the people remain steeped in ignorance , at the mercy of every village clerk ; while you have in your power the mean of help they , and yet be not help because you do not consider it important ! '
and Koznyshev confront his brother with this dilemma : ' either you be so undeveloped that you do not see all that you might do , or you do not want to sacrifice your peace of mind or your vanity – I do not know which – in order to do it . '
Constantine feel that there be nothing for he but to submit or else to own to a lack of love for the common cause , and he feel wound and grieve .
' both the one and the other , ' say he resolutely . ' I can not see how it be to be do ... '
do not see how medical help can be give , by distribute the money in a proper way ... '
' well , it seem impossible to I ...
to give medical help over the whole three thousand square mile of our district , with our deep snow , impassable when it begin melt , our snowdrift , and the pressure of work at harvest time , be impossible .
besides , I have no faith in medicine generally ... '
' come now ! that be unjust ...
I could cite thousand of case to you ...
and how about school ? '
' school ? what for ? '
' what do you mean ?
be it possible to doubt the utility of education ?
if it be good for you , why not for everybody ? '
Constantine feel himself morally corner , and in consequence become excited and involuntarily betray the chief cause of his indifference to social question .
' all this may be very good , but why should I trouble about medical centre which I should never use or school to which I should never send my child , and to which the peasant would not wish to send theirs either ? – and to which I be not fully convinced they ought to send they ? ' say he .
this unexpected view of the question take Koznyshev by surprise ; but he immediately form a new plan of attack .
he remain silent awhile , lift his rod and throw the line again , and then turn to his brother with a smile .
' now let us see ...
there be need of a medical centre after all .
do we not send for the district doctor for Agatha Mikhaylovna ? '
' but I think her hand will remain crooked all the same . '
' that be very questionable ...
and then a peasant who can read and write be more useful to you and worth more . '
ask anyone you like , ' say Constantine , decidedly . ' a peasant who can read and write be far bad as a labourer .
they can not mend the road , and when they build a bridge they steal . '
' however , all that be not to the point , ' say Koznyshev , frown ; he do not like to be contradict , especially when he be meet with argument that incessantly shift their ground , introduce new consideration without sequence so that it be difficult to know which of they to answer first .
' wait a bit .
do you admit that education be a good thing for the people ? '
' I do , ' reply Levin unguardedly , and at once realize that he have not say what he really think .
he feel that , since he admit this much , it would be prove to he that he be talk meaningless twaddle .
how it would be prove to he he do not know ; but he know that it certainly would be prove logically , and wait for that proof .
the proof turn out to be far simple than Constantine anticipate .
' if you admit it to be good , ' say Koznyshev , ' then , as an honest man , you can not help love and sympathize with such movement and wish to work for they . '
' but I be not yet prepared to say that such work be desirable , ' return Levin .
why , you say just now ... '
' I mean I consider it neither desirable nor possible . '
' you can not tell without having try it . '
' well , let us grant it be so , ' say Levin , though he do not grant it at all . ' still , I do not see why I should he bother with it . '
' what do you mean ? '
' no , since we have start on the topic , perhaps you have well explain it to I from a philosophical point of view , ' say Levin .
' I do not see what philosophy have to do with it , ' reply Koznyshev in a tone that make it seem – at least Levin think so – that he do not consider his brother have a right to argue on philosophical question .
this irritated Levin .
' this be what it have to do with it , ' he say , getting heat . ' I believe that in any case the motive power of all our action be our personal happiness .
at present I , a nobleman , see nothing in our Zemstvo that could conduce to my welfare .
the road be not well and can not be make well , and my horse do manage to pull I over the bad one .
I do not require doctor and medical centre ; I do not need the magistrate ; I never apply to he and never will .
I not only do not require school , but they would even do I harm , as I have already tell you .
to I the Zemstvo mean nothing but a tax of two kopeck per desyatina , my have to go to the town , share a bed with bug , and list to all sort of nonsense and nastiness ; and my personal interest do not prompt I to do it ! '
' come , ' smilingly interrupt Koznyshev , ' it be not our personal interest which induce we to work for the emancipation of the serf , and yet we do it . '
' no , no ! ' Constantine interrupt , grow more and more heated .
' the emancipation of the serf be quite a different matter .
there be a personal interest in that : we want to throw off a yoke that be oppress we all – all good man .
but to be member of a Council , to discuss how many scavenger be require and how the drain should be lay in a town in which I be not live , to be on the jury and try a peasant who have steal a horse , to sit for six hour on end listen to all sort of rubbish jabbered by the counsel and prosecutor , and to the President ask our idiot Aleshka : ' -"prisoner at the bar , do you plead guilty to the indictment of having steal a horse ? " .
' " eh - h - h ? " ' Constantine Levin be be carry away , and be present the judge and the idiot Aleshka ; it seem to he that all this be relevant to the case in point .
but Koznyshev shrug his shoulder .
' well , what do you want to prove by that ? '
' I only want to prove that I will always stand up with all my power for the right which touch I and my personal interest . when they search we student , and gendarme read our letter , I be ready to defend with all my power my right to education and liberty .
I understand conscription which touch the fate of my child , of my brother and myself , and I be ready to discuss what concern I ; but how to dispose of forty thousand rouble of Zemstvo money , or how to try the idiot Aleshka , I neither understand nor can take part in . '
Constantine Levin speak as if the dam of his flood of word have be break .
Koznyshev smile .
' and to - morrow you may be go to law . would you rather be try in the old Criminal Court ? '
' I will not go to law .
I be not go to cut anybody 's throat so I shall never be in need of that sort of thing .
all those Zemstvo institution of our , ' he say , again jump off to a subject that have no bearing on the case in point , ' be like those little birch that be cut down for decoration at Whitsuntide , and we Russians stick they up to imitate the wood that have grow up naturally in Western Europe . I can not water these birch or believe in they from my soul . '
Koznyshev only shrug his shoulder to express his wonder at this sudden introduction of little birch into their discussion , though he have at once grasp his brother 's meaning .
' wait a moment ! one can not reason that way , you know , ' he remark ; but Constantine , wish to justify the failing of which he be aware in himself ( his indifference to the general welfare ) , continue :
' I think that no activity can endure if it be not base on personal interest .
that be the common and philosophical truth , ' say he , emphasize the word philosophical , as if he want to show that he might talk about philosophy as much as anyone else .
Koznyshev smile again .
' he too have some philosophy or other to serve his inclination , ' he think
' you would well leave philosophy alone , ' say he . ' the principal task of philosophy have always , in all age , be to find the necessary connection exist between personal and general interest .
but that be not the point . I need only correct your illustration to get at the point .
the birch be not stick in : some of they be plant , and other be sow and have to be tend carefully .
only those people have a future , only those people can be call historic , that have a sense of what be important and great in their institution , and value they . '
and to prove the inaccuracy of Levin 's view , Koznyshev carry the conversation into the realm of philosophy and history , which be beyond Constantine 's reach .
' as to your not like it , pardon I , but that only come of our russian laziness and seigniorial habit , and I be sure that in your case it be a temporary error and will pass . '
Constantine be silent .
he feel himself beat at every point , yet be sure that his brother have not understand what he have be try to say , only he do not know why this be so : whether it be because he could not express himself clearly , or because his brother either could not or do not wish to understand he .
but he do not go deeply into these question , and without reply to his brother begin reflect on a totally different and personal matter .
Koznyshev wind up his last line , untie the horse , and they start on their homeward way .
the personal matter that OCCUPIED LEVIN while he be talk with his brother be this . the year before , when visit a field that be be mow , he have lose his temper with his steward , and to calm himself have use a remedy of his own – he take a scythe from one of the peasant and himself begin mow .
he like this work so much that he went mow several time : he mow all the meadow in front of his house , and when spring come he plan to devote several whole day to mow with the peasant .
since his brother 's arrival , however , he be in doubt whether to go mow or not .
he do not feel comfortable at the thought of leave his brother alone all day long , and he also fear that Koznyshev might laugh at he .
but while walk over the meadow he recall the impression mowing have make on he , and almost make up his mind to do it .
after his irritate conversation with his brother he again remember his intention .
' I need physical exercise ; without it my character get quite spoilt , ' think he , and determine to go and mow , however uncomfortable his brother and the peasant might make he feel .
in the evening Constantine go to the office and give order about the work , send round to the village to tell the mower to come next day to the Kalina meadow , the large and fine he have .
' and please send my scythe to Titus to be sharpen , and have it take to the meadow to - morrow : I may go mow myself , ' he say , try to overcome his confusion .
the steward smile and say ,
' all right , sir . '
that evening , at tea , Levin say to his brother :
' the weather looks settle ; to - morrow we begin mow . '
' I like that work very much , ' say Koznyshev .
' I like it awfully too .
I have mow with the peasant now and then , and to - morrow I want to mow all day . '
Koznyshev look up at his brother in surprise . ' how do you mean ?
all day , just like the peasant ? '
' yes , it be very pleasant , ' reply Levin .
' it be splendid physical exercise , but you will hardly be able to hold out , ' remark Koznyshev , without the least sarcasm .
' I have try it .
at first it seem hard , but one gets draw into it .
I do not think I shall lag behind ... '
' dear I !
but tell I , how do the peasant take it ?
I expect they laugh at their crank of a master ? '
' no , I do not think so ; but it be such pleasant work and at the same time so hard , that one have no time for thinking . '
' but how can you dine with they ?
it would not be quite the thing to send you claret and roast turkey out there ? '
' no ; I will just come home at their dinner - time . '
next morning Constantine get up early than usual , but give instruction about the farming delay he and when he come to the meadow each man be already mow his second swath .
from the hill , as he come to his first swath , he could see in the shade at his foot , a part of the meadow that be already mown , with the green heap of grass and dark pile of coat throw down by the mower .
as he draw near , the peasant – follow each other in a long straggle line , some with coat on , some in their shirt , each swinge his scythe in his own manner – gradually come into sight .
he count forty - two of they .
they move slowly along the uneven bottom of the meadow , where a weir have once be .
Levin recognize some of his own man .
Old Ermil , wear a very long white shirt [ russian peasant wear their shirt outside their trouser , like smock . ] be swinge his scythe , with his back bent ; young Vaska , who have be in Levin 's service as coachman , and who at each swing of his scythe cut the grass the whole width of his swath ; and Titus , Levin 's mow master , a thin little peasant , who go along without stop , mow his wide swath as if in play .
Levin dismount and , tether his horse by the roadside , go up to Titus , who fetch another scythe from behind a bush and give it to Levin .
' it be ready , master ! like a razor , it will mow of itself , ' say Titus , take off his cap and smile as he hand the scythe .
Levin take it and begin to put himself in position .
the peasant , perspiring and merry , who have finish their swath come out on to the road one after another , and laughingly exchange greeting with the master .
they all look at he , but no one make any remark until a tall old man with a shrivel , beardless face , wear a sheepskin jacket , step out on to the road and address he :
' mind , master ! having put your hand to the plough , do not look back ! ' and Levin hear the sound of repressed laughter among the mower .
' I will try not to lag behind , ' he say , take his place behind Titus and wait his turn to fall in .
' mind ! ' repeat the old man .
Titus make room for Levin , and Levin follow he .
by the roadside the grass be short and tough , and Levin , who have not do any mowing for a long time and be confuse by so many eye upon he , mow badly for the first ten minute , though he swing his scythe with much vigour .
he hear voice behind he :
' it be not properly adjust , the grip be not right . see how he have to stoop ! ' say one . ' hold the heel low , ' say another .
' never mind ! it be all right : he will get into it , ' say the old man . ' there he go ... '
' you be take too wide a swath , you will get knock up . ' ...
' he be the master , he must work ; he be work for himself ' ...
' but look how uneven ! ' ...
' that be what the like of we use to get a thump on the back for . '
they come to soft grass , and Levin , who be listen without reply , follow Titus and try to mow as well as possible .
when they have go some hundred step Titus be still go on without pause , show no sign of fatigue , while Levin be already begin to fear he would not be able to keep up , he feel so tired .
he swing his scythe , feel almost at the last gasp , and make up his mind to ask Titus to stop .
but just at that moment Titus stop of his own accord , stoop , take up some grass and wipe his scythe with it .
Levin straighten himself , sigh , and look back .
the peasant behind he be still mow but be obviously tired too , for he stop without come even with Levin and begin whet his scythe .
Titus whet his own and Levin 's , and they begin mow again .
the same thing happen at Levin 's second attempt .
Titus swing his scythe , swing after swing , without stop and without get tired .
Levin follow , try not to lag behind , but it become hard and hard until at last the moment come when he feel he have no strength leave , and then Titus again stop and begin whet his scythe .
in this way they finish the swath .
they be long , and to Levin seem particularly difficult ; but when it be do and Titus with his scythe over his shoulder turn about and slowly retrace his step , place his foot on the mark leave on the mown surface by the heel of his boot , and Levin go down his own swath in the same way , then – in spite of the perspiration that run down his face in stream and drip from his nose , and though his back be as wet as if the shirt have be soak in water – he feel very light - hearted .
what give he most pleasure be the knowledge that he would be able to keep up with the peasant .
the only thing mar his joy be the fact that his swath be not well mown .
' I must swing the scythe less with my arm and more with the whole of my body , ' he think , compare Titus 's swath , cut straight as if by measure , with his own , on which the grass lie scatter and uneven .
as Levin be aware , Titus have be mow this swath with special rapidity , probably to put his master to the test , and it chance to be a very long one .
the next swath be easy , but still Levin have to work with all his might to keep even with the peasant .
he think of nothing and desire nothing , except not to lag behind and to do his work as well as possible .
he hear only the swishing of the scythe and see only the recede figure of Titus , the convex half - circle of the mown piece before he , and the grass and head of flower fall in wave about the blade of his scythe , and in the background the end of the swath where he would rest .
suddenly he be conscious of a pleasant coolness on his hot perspiring shoulder , without know what it be or whence it come .
he glance up at the sky whilst whet his scythe .
a dark cloud be hang low overhead , and large drop of rain be fall .
some of the peasant go to put on their coat ; other as well as Levin feel pleasure in the refreshing rain and merely move their shoulder up and down .
they come to the end of another swath .
they go on mow long and short row , good and poor grass .
Levin have lose all count of time and have really no idea whether it be late or early .
his work be undergo a change which give he intense pleasure .
while work he sometimes forget for some minute what he be about , and feel quite at ease ; then his mowing be nearly as even as that of Titus .
but as soon as he begin think about it and try to work well , he at once feel how hard the task be and mow badly .
he finish a swath and be about to start another when Titus pause and go up to the old man , and both look at the sun .
' what be they talk about , and why do not they start another swath ? ' think Levin . it do not occur to he that the peasant , who have be mow unceasingly for four hour , want their breakfast .
' breakfast - time , master , ' say the old man .
' be it time ?
well , then , breakfast ! '
Levin hand his scythe to Titus and with the peasant , who be go to fetch the bread that lie with their coat , go across the swath of the long mown portion of the meadow , slightly sprinkle with rain .
only then he remember that he have not be right about the weather and that the rain be wet the hay .
' the hay will be spoilt , ' say he .
' it will not hurt , master . " Mow in the rain , rake when it be fine ! " - '
Levin untie his horse and ride home to his coffee .
by the time Levin have finish breakfast Koznyshev have only just get up , and Levin go back to the meadow before Koznyshev have come to table .
after breakfast LEVIN got PLACED between a humorous old man who invite he to be his neighbour and a young peasant who have only got marry last autumn and be now out for his first summer 's mowing .
the old man go along hold himself erect , move with regular , long step , turn out his toe , and with a precise and even motion that seem to cost he no more effort than swinge his arm when walk , he lay the grass in a level high ridge , as if in play or as if the sharp scythe of its own accord whiz through the juicy grass .
Young Mishka go behind Levin .
his pleasant young face , with a wisp of grass tie round the forehead over his hair , work all over with the effort ; but whenever anyone glance at he he smile .
evidently he would have die rather than confess that the work be tiring .
between these two go Levin .
now , in the hot part of the day , the work do not seem so hard to he .
the perspiration in which he be bathe be cool and the sun which burn his back , his head and his arm – bare to the elbow – add to his strength and perseverance in his task , and those unconscious interval when it become possible not to think of what he be do recur more and more often .
the scythe seem to mow of itself .
those be happy moment .
yet more joyous be the moment when , reach the river at the low end of the swath , the old man would wipe his scythe with the wet grass , rinse its blade in the clear water , and dip his whetstone - box in the stream , would offer it to Levin .
' a little of my kvas ?
it be good ! ' say he , with a wink .
and really Levin think he have never taste any nice drink than this lukewarm water with green stuff float in it and a flavour of the rusty tin box .
and then come the ecstasy of a slow walk , one hand rest on the scythe , when there be leisure to wipe away the stream of perspiration , to breathe deep , to watch the line of mower , and to see what be go on around in forest and field .
the long Levin go on mowing , the oftener he experience those moment of oblivion when his arm no long seem to swing the scythe , but the scythe itself his whole body , so conscious and full of life ; and as if by magic , regularly and definitely without a thought be give to it , the work accomplish itself of its own accord .
these be bless moment .
it be try only when thought become necessary in order to mow around a molehill or a space where the hard sorrel stalk have not be weed out .
the old man accomplish this with ease .
when he come to a molehill he would change his action , and with a short jerk of the point and then of the heel of his scythe he would mow all round the molehill .
and while do this he note everything he come to : now he pluck a sorrel stalk and eat it , or offer it to Levin ; now he throw aside a branch with the point of his scythe , or examine a quail 's nest from which the hen bird have fly up , almost under the scythe ; or he catch a beetle , lift it with the scythe - point as with a fork , and after show it to Levin , throw it away .
Levin and the young fellow on the other side of he find such change of action difficult .
both of they , having get into one strained kind of movement , be in the grip of feverish labour and have not the power to change the motion of their body and at the same time to observe what lay before they .
Levin do not notice how time pass .
have he be ask how long he have be mow , he would have answer ' half an hour , ' although it be nearly noon .
as they be about to begin another swath the old man draw Levin 's attention to the little boy and girl approach from all side along the road and through the long grass , hardly visible above it , carry jug of kvas stopper with rag , and bundle of bread which strain their little arm .
' look at the midge crawl along ! ' he say , point to the child and glance at the sun from under his lift hand .
they complete two more swath and then the old man stop .
' come , master ! it be dinner - time , ' say he with decision .
all the mower on reach the river go across the swath to where their coat lay , and where the child who have bring their dinner sit wait for they .
the man who have drive from a distance gather in the shadow of their cart ; those who live near shelter under the willow growth , on which they hang grass .
Levin sit down beside they ; he do not want to go away .
all the peasant ' restraint in the presence of the master have vanish .
the man begin prepare for dinner .
some have a wash . the young lad bathe in the river ; other arrange place for their after - dinner rest , unfasten their bag of bread and unstoppere their jug of kvas .
the old man break some rye bread into a bowl , mash it with a spoon handle , pour over it some water from his tin , break more bread into it and salt it , and then , turn to the East , say grace .
' come , master , have some of my dinner , ' say he , kneel in front of his bowl .
the bread and water be so nice that Levin give up all intention of go home to lunch .
he share the old man 's meal and get into conversation with he about his domestic affair , take a lively interest in they and tell he about his own , give he all the particular which would interest the old peasant .
when the old man get up and , having say grace , lie down beneath the willow with an armful of grass under his head , Levin do the same , regardless of the fly , importunate and persistent in the sunshine , and of the crawl insect that tickle his perspiring face and body . he at once fall asleep , wake only when the sun touch the opposite side of the willow and reach he .
the old man have already be long awake and sit set the scythe for the young man .
Levin look round and hardly recognize the place , everything be so altered .
a wide expanse of the meadow be already mown , and with its swath of grass already give off perfume , shine with a peculiar fresh brilliance in the oblique ray of the descend sun .
the bush by the river where the grass have be cut and the river itself with its curve , previously invisible , be now glitter like steel ; and the people get up and move about , the steep wall of yet uncut grass , and the hawk soar over the bare meadow , strike he as something quite new .
when he be fully awake Levin begin to calculate how much have be do and how much could still be do that day .
an extraordinary amount have be do by the forty - two man .
the large meadow , which in the day of serfdom have take thirty man two day to mow , be all finish except some short patch at the corner .
but Levin want to get as much as possible do that day , and it be vexatious to see the sun already decline .
he be not feel at all tired and be only longing to work again and to accomplish as much as he could .
' what do you think – could we manage to get Mashkin Heights mown to - day ? ' he ask the old man .
' well , God willing , we might ! the sun be not very high though .
perhaps – if the lad could have a little vodka ! '
at half - time , when they sit down again and those who smoke be light their pipe , the old man inform the young fellow that if they mow the Mashkin Heights there would be vodka .
' what ?
not mow that ?
come along , Titus ; we will get it clear in no time ! '
' you can eat your fill at night .
let us begin ! ' shout different voice , and the mower take their place , finish their bread as they go .
' now then , lad ! keep go ! ' say Titus , start off ahead almost at a trot .
' go on , go on ! ' say the old man , hurry after he and easily catch he up .
' take care , I will mow you down ! '
and young and old vie with each other at mow .
but in spite of their haste they do not spoil the grass , and the swath fall just as evenly and exactly as before .
the small patch that be leave in the last corner be mow in five minute ; and whilst the last mower be finish their swath , those in front , carry their coat over their shoulder , be already cross the road toward Mashkin Heights .
the sun be already set toward the tree when , with their tin box rattle , they enter the wooded ravine of the Heights .
the grass that in the middle of the ravine reach to their waist be delicate , soft , and broad - blade , speckle here and there with cow - wheat .
after a short consultation as to whether they should mow the ravine across or lengthwise , Prokhor – a gigantic dark man and a famous mower – take the lead .
he go in front , mow a swath , turn round and restart ; follow he all the other take their place , go downhill along the creek and back up to the very skirt of the wood .
the sun have set behind the wood and now shine only on the mower at the top of the hill , while in the valley , where the mist be rise , they be in cool , dewy shade .
the work proceed briskly .
the scented grass , cut down with a sound that show how juicy it be , fall in high ridge .
on the short swath the mower crowd together , their tin box clatter , their scythe ring whenever they touch , the whetstone whistle upon the blade , and their merry voice resound as they urge each other on .
Levin be again mow between the old man and the lad .
the old man , who have put on his sheepskin jacket , be still as jolly , witty , and easy in his movement as before .
in the wood their scythe continually cut down wood mushroom , grow plump amid the juicy grass .
the old man stoop each time he come upon one , pick it up , and put it inside his jacket , say , ' another treat for my old woman . '
it be easy to cut the wet soft grass , but on the other hand it be very difficult to go up and down the steep slope of the ravine .
this , however , do not trouble the old man .
swinge his scythe just as usual , take short step with foot shod in large bark - plait shoe , he slowly climb the slope ; and though his whole body and his loosely - hang trouser shake , he do not miss a single mushroom or a curious grass , and continue joke with the other peasant and with Levin .
Levin follow , and often think he would certainly fall when climb a mound with his scythe in his hand – a mound so steep that it would have be hard to climb even unencumbered .
still , he manage to climb it and to do all that have to be do ; and he feel as if some external force be urge he on .
MASHKIN HEIGHTS be MOWN , and the peasant , having complete their last swath , put on their coat and go home in high spirit .
Levin , having regretfully take leave of they , mount and ride home .
he look back from the top of the hill . he could not see the man , for the mist rise from the hollow hide they ; but he hear their merry rough voice , laughter , and the clanking of the scythe .
Koznyshev have long have his dinner , and be in his room drink ice water with lemon , while look over the paper and magazine just arrive by post , when Levin rush in , his tangle hair cling to his moist brow , his shirt saturate back and front and dark with perspiration , and cry out joyfully :
' we have finish the whole of the meadow !
how delightful it be ! wonderful !
and how have you get on ? ' Levin have quite forget the unpleasant conversation of the previous day .
' dear I , what a sight you be ! ' say Koznyshev , turn to his brother with a momentary look of vexation : ' the door – the door ! shut it ! ' he exclaim . ' you 've certainly let in a whole dozen . '
Koznyshev could not bear fly , and open the window in his room only at night , keep the door carefully closed .
' no , not one , I swear .
and if I have , I will catch it ! ..
you would not believe what enjoyment it be !
and how have you spend the day ? '
' quite well .
but have you really be mow all day ?
you must be as hungry as a wolf .
Kuzma have everything ready for you . '
' no , I do not want to eat ; I have have something there .
but I will go and wash . '
' yes , yes , go ; and I will come presently . ' Koznyshev shake his head as he look at his brother . ' go , go and be quick ! ' he add with a smile , as , gather together his book , he prepare to go too . he also feel suddenly quite cheerful and do not wish to part from his brother . ' and where be you when it rain ? '
' what rain be that ?
only a few drop ...
well then , I will come back directly .
so you have spend the day all right ?
that be good . ' and Levin go off to dress .
five minute later the brother meet again in the dining - room .
though Levin have imagine that he be not hungry , and sit down to table only not to offend Kuzma , yet when he begin eat he think everything delicious .
Koznyshev smile as he look at he
' oh , yes , there be a letter for you , ' say he . ' Kuzma , please bring it .
it be downstairs . and mind you shut the door . '
the letter be from Oblonsky .
Levin read it aloud .
Oblonsky write from Petersburg : ' I have have a letter from Dolly .
she be in Ergushevo , and everything be out of gear there .
please go and see she and help she with your advice – you know all about everything .
she be quite alone , poor thing ; my mother - in - law be still abroad . '
' that be splendid !
I will certainly go and see she , ' say Levin .
' or shall we both go ?
she be such a good woman ; do not you think so ? '
' be it far from here ? '
' a little over twenty - five mile or maybe even thirty , but the road be excellent .
we will have a fine drive . '
' I shall be very glad , ' reply Koznyshev , still smile .
the sight of his young brother have a distinctly cheer influence on he .
' I must say you have an appetite ! ' he say , glance at the sunburnt ruddy face bent over the plate .
' fine !
you would hardly believe what a remedy it be for every kind of folly .
I be think of enrich Medicine with a new word : Arbeitkur ! ' [ work - cure . ]
' you would hardly require it , I should say . '
' no , but those who suffer from their nerve do . '
' yes , it ought to be test .
you know , I think of come to the meadow to have a look at you , but it be so unbearably hot that I get only as far as the forest !
I sit there a little , and then go through the forest to the village , where I meet your old wet - nurse and sound she as to what the peasant think of you .
from she I understand that they do not approve of your do it .
she say : " it be not gentlefolk 's work . "
it seem to I that on the whole , in the people 's opinion , a very decided demand for what they call " gentlefolk 's work " exist , and they do not approve of the gentry go outside the bound they set for they . '
' possibly ; but it be a pleasure such as I have never in my life experience before , and there be nothing wrong in it .
do not you think so too ? ' reply Levin .
' if they do not like it , it can not be help .
besides , I think it be all right .
' I see that on the whole you be well satisfied with your day . '
' very well indeed !
we finish the meadow .
and I chum up with such a fine old man !
you can not imagine what a charming fellow he be . '
' well , then , you be satisfied with your day , and so be I. first of all I solve two chess problem – one a very good one , begin with a pawn move .
I will show it you .
and afterwards I think over our yesterday 's conversation . '
' what about yesterday 's conversation ? ' ask Levin , who have finish dinner and sat blissfully blink and puffing , quite unable to remember what yesterday 's conversation have be about .
' I think you be partly right .
our disagreement lie in the fact that you consider personal interest the motive power , while I think every man with a certain degree of education ought to be interested in the general welfare .
you may be right in think that activity back by material interest be good ; but your nature be altogether primesautière , [ heedless . ] as the French say : you want passionate , energetic activity , or nothing at all . '
Levin listen to his brother but understand absolutely nothing and do not wish to understand .
he be only afraid his brother might put some question which would elicit the fact that he be not pay attention .
' that be what it be , old chap , ' say Koznyshev , pat Constantine 's shoulder .
' yes , of course !
but what matter ?
I do not insist on my view , ' reply Levin , with a guilty , childlike smile .
' what can I have be dispute about ? ' he think .
' of course I be right , and he be right too , so it be all right ! ...
but I must go round to the office . '
he rise , stretch himself and smile .
Koznyshev smile too . ' shall we go for a stroll together ? ' he say , not wish to part from his brother , who seem to be exhale freshness and vigour . ' come along ! we could call in at the office if you want to . '
' oh , dear I ! ' exclaim Levin , so loudly that he scare Koznyshev .
' what be the matter ? '
' how be Agatha Mikhaylovna 's arm ? ' ask Levin , slap his head . ' I have forget all about it . '
' much well . '
' well , I will run and see she , all the same .
you will not have get your hat before I be back . '
and his heel clatter swiftly down the stair , make a noise like a rattle .
OBLONSKY have gone to petersburg to fulfil a very necessary duty – which to official seem most natural and familiar , though to laymen it be incomprehensible – that of remind the Ministry of his existence , without the performance of which rite continuance in Government service be impossible . having take away with he all the money there be in the house , he contrive while attend to duty to pass his time very pleasantly , go to race and visit at country house .
meanwhile , to curtail expense , Dolly and her child move to the country . she go to Ergushevo , the estate which have form part of her dowry , about thirty - five mile distant from Levin 's Pokrovsk , and the very place where in spring the forest have be sell .
the old mansion on the estate have be pull down long ago , but there be a small house which have be enlarge and decorate by the Prince .
some twenty year before , when Dolly be still a child , that house have seem roomy and convenient , though in common with all house of the kind it stand away from the drive and have not a south aspect .
it be old and begin to decay .
in the spring , when Oblonsky go there to sell the forest , Dolly have ask he to look over the house and have all necessary repair do .
like all guilty husband Oblonsky be very anxious about his wife 's comfort , so he look over the house himself and give order to have everything do that seem to he necessary .
accord to he it be necessary to reupholster the furniture with new cretonne , to put up curtain , make the garden tidy , plant flower and build a bridge by the lake ; but he forget many other thing which be essential , and thus cause Dolly a great deal of trouble .
try as he would to be a considerate husband and father , Oblonsky never could remember that he have a wife and child .
he have the taste of a bachelor and understand no other .
when he return to Moscow he inform his wife that all be be prepare , that the house would look like a new toy , and advise she to move thither .
her departure for the country suit Oblonsky in every way : it be good for the child , expense would be cut down , and he would be free .
his wife , on the other hand , consider go to the country for the summer to be absolutely necessary for the child , especially for the little girl who have not recover her health after the scarlet fever ; and also in order to escape the humiliation of small debt for fuel , fish , boot , and so on , which torment she .
besides this she like the idea of go to her house in the country because she intend to get her sister Kitty , who be to return from abroad at midsummer and who have be order bathing , to join she there .
Kitty write from her watering - place that nothing seem so attractive as spend the summer with Dolly at Ergushevo , which be full of childhood 's memory for both of they .
the first day in the country be very try for Dolly .
in her girlhood she have live there and it have leave an impression on her mind as a place of refuge from all the unpleasantness of town ; life there , though very plain ( dolly be reconcile to that ) , be cheap and comfortable ; everything be cheap there and easy to get , and it would do the child good .
but when she come there as mistress of the house she see that thing be quite different from what she have expect .
the day after her arrival it pour with rain and in the night the rain come through into the passage and nursery , so that the child 's bed have to be carry into the drawing - room .
there be no scullery - maid . of the nine cow some , accord to the dairymaids , be about to calve , other have calve for the first time , some be too old , and the rest be difficult to milk , so there be no butter and scarcely enough milk even for the child .
there be no egg .
it be impossible to get a chicken , and they be oblige to boil and roast tough old purple - coloured rooster .
no peasant woman could be get to scrub the floor : they be all out planting potato .
it be impossible to go for a drive because one of the horse be restive and would not run in harness .
there be no place for bathing , the river bank be all trample over by the cattle and expose to the road ; it be not even possible to walk in the garden because the fence be break and the peasant ' cattle could get in , and the herd include a terrible bull that be give to bellow and would therefore probably toss .
there be nowhere to hang dress , because what few wardrobe there be would not shut , or else open of themselves when anyone pass by .
there be no mangle in the laundry , not even an ironing board , and no large pot or pan .
dolly , meet with these difficulty , so terrible from her point of view , instead of find peace and rest , be at first drive to despair . she bustle about and do her utmost ; but feel the hopelessness of her position , have to fight with the tear that rise every moment to her eye .
the steward , formerly a non - commissioned officer , to whom Oblonsky have take a fancy and whom he have promote from hall porter to steward because of the man 's handsome and respectful appearance , take no interest in his mistress 's trouble , only say in a deferential tone , ' quite impossible , the people be so abominable , ' and do nothing to help she .
the position seem irremediable ; but just as in other household , there be here in the Oblonskys ' house one inconspicuous yet most important and useful person : Matrena Filimonovna .
she console her mistress , assure she that everything would ' shape itself ( this phrase be her own , and Matthew have learn it from she ) , and she go to work deliberately and without excitement .
she at once make friend with the steward 's wife , and on the very day of the removal drink tea with she and with the steward beneath the laburnum , discuss arrangement .
a club be soon establish beneath the laburnum , consist of Matrena Filimonovna , the steward 's wife , the village elder , and the office clerk ; and by mean of this club the trouble begin gradually to subside , so that in a week 's time everything have really ' shape itself . '
the roof be mend , a scullery - maid – a relative of the elder 's – be engage , hen be buy , the cow give enough milk , the garden be fence in , a mangle be make by the carpenter , hook be put into the wardrobe , which no long open at their own sweet will ; an ironing board cover with coarse cloth lie across the arm of a chair and a chest of drawer in the maid 's room , and the smell of hot iron soon pervade the room .
' there , you see ! and you be quite in despair ! ' say Matrena Filimonovna , point to the board .
even a bathing - house be construct out of straw plait screen .
Lily start bathe , and at least part of Dolly 's expectation be fulfil , if not that of a quiet , at least that of a comfortable , country life .
dolly could not be quiet with six child , of whom one would fall ill , another be in danger of fall ill , a third be in want of something , a fourth show symptom of something bad in his disposition , etc . , etc .
very , very rare be the short interval of quiet .
but these care and anxiety be the only kind of happiness possible for Dolly .
have it not be for they she would have be leave to her thought about the husband who do not love she .
besides , painful as be for a mother the fear of illness , and sorrow at the appearance of evil tendency in her child , those child be already begin to repay her care by afford her small joy .
these joy be so trifle as to be as imperceptible as grain of gold among the sand , and in moment of depression she see nothing but the sand ; yet there be bright moment when she feel nothing but joy , see nothing but the gold .
now in the country solitude she grow more often aware of these joy .
often when watch her child she make great effort to convince herself that she be mistaken , that be their mother she be not impartial ; and yet she could not help tell herself that they be charming child , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of they such as be rarely to be meet with ; and she be happy in they and proud of they .
at the END of MAY , when the house be more or less in order , Dolly receive from her husband an answer to her letter of complaint .
he write ask she to forgive his not having see to everything , and say that he would come as soon as possible .
that possibility , however , have not be fulfil , and up to the beginning of June Dolly be still live without he in the country .
on the Sunday before St Peter 's Day Dolly take all her child to Communion .
[ in the russo - Greek Church quite young child receive Communion . ] when talk intimately with her mother and sister Dolly often astonish they by her freedom of thought on religious matter .
she have a strange religion of her own , firmly believe in the transmigration of soul , and not care about Church dogma .
but in her family she fulfil ( not merely to set an example , but with her whole heart ) all that the Church demand , and be very uneasy because for about a year the child have not receive Communion . so now , with the entire approval of Matrena Filimonovna , she resolve that this ceremony should be perform .
several day previously she decide how all the child should be dress .
new frock be make , old one alter , hem and frill let down , button sew on , and ribbon get ready .
one of the frock , which the english governess have undertake to alter , be the cause of much bad blood .
the governess put the bodice dart in the wrong place , cut out the arm - hole too big , and nearly spoil the dress .
it fit so tight round Tanya 's shoulder that it be painful to see she ; but Matrena Filimonovna be inspire to insert wedge - shape piece and to make a fichu to cover the defect .
the frock be put right but it very nearly cause a quarrel with the governess .
however , in the morning everything be right ; and toward nine o'clock – the hour till which the priest have be ask to defer mass – the child , beam with joy , stand in all their finery by the carriage at the porch , wait for their mother .
instead of the restive Raven , the steward 's Brownie have be harness to the carriage on Matrena Filimonovna 's authority , and Dolly , who have be detain by the care of her own toilet , come out in a white muslin dress and take her seat in the carriage .
dolly , somewhat excited , have dress and do her hair with care .
at one time she use to dress for her own sake , in order to look well and be attractive ; later on as she grow old dressing become less and less agreeable to she , because it make the loss of her good look more apparent ; but now it again give her pleasure and excite she .
she be not dress for her own sake , not for her own beauty , but in order , as the mother of all those charming child , not to spoil the general effect .
she give her mirror a last glance and be satisfied with herself .
she look well : not in the way she have wish to look when go to a ball , but well for the object she have in view at present .
there be no one in church except peasant , innkeeper and their womenfolk ; but dolly see , or think she see , the rapture produce in they by her child and herself .
the child be not only beautiful in their fine clothe but be also very sweet in their behaviour .
it be true Alesha do not stand very well : he keep turn round to see the back of his jacket ; but nevertheless he be wonderfully sweet .
Tanya stand like a grow - up person and look after the little one .
Little Lily be charming in her naive wonder at everything around , and it be difficult to repress a smile when , having swallow the bread and wine , she say in English , ' More , please ! '
on the way home the child be very quiet , feel that something solemn have take place .
at home also all go well , only at lunch Grisha begin whistle and – what be still bad – would not obey the governess and have to go without his pudding .
dolly would not have sanction any punishment on such a day have she be present , but she be oblige to support the governess and so confirm the sentence that Grisha be not to have pudding .
this rather spoil the general joyfulness .
Grisha cry and say he be be punish although it be Nikolenka that have whistle , and that he be not cry about the pudding ( he do not mind that ! ) but because of the injustice .
this be too sad , and Dolly decide to speak to the governess and get she to forgive Grisha , and go off to find she .
but as she be pass through the dancing - room she see a scene which fill her heart with such joy that tear come to her eye and she pardon the little culprit herself .
the little fellow be sit on the ledge of the corner window of the dancing - room , and beside he stand Tanya with a plate .
on the plea of give her doll some dinner she have obtain leave from the governess to take she plateful of pudde to the nursery , but have bring it to her brother instead .
still cry over the injustice do he , he eat the pudding , mutter between sobs : ' eat some yourself ... let we both eat ... together ! '
Tanya , affect first by pity for Grisha and then by the consciousness of her own virtuous action , also have tear in her eye , but do not decline to eat her share of the pudding .
when they see their mother they be frightened , but glance at her face they know they be act rightly and , with their mouth full of pudding , begin to laugh and wipe their smile lip with their hand , smear their beam face with tear and jam .
' dear I !
your nice white frock !
Tanya ! ...
Grisha ! ' cry their mother , try to save the frock , but smile a blissful , rapturous smile .
the new clothe be take off , the little girl have their overall and the boy their old jacket , and order be give to harness ( to the steward 's chagrin ) his Brownie again , to take the whole family mushroom - hunting , and later to the bathing - house .
the sound of rapturous squealing fill the nursery , and do not cease till they start on their drive .
they gather a basketful of mushroom ; even Lily find one .
previously Miss Hull use to find one and point it out to she ; but this time Lily herself find a fine big one and there be a general shout of delight : ' Lily have find a mushroom ! '
after that they drive to the river , leave the horse under the birch tree , and enter the bathing - house .
Terenty the coachman tie to a tree the horse , that be swish their tail to drive away the fly , stretch himself full length in the shade , press down the high grass , and smoke his pipe , while from the bathing - house come the sound of the incessant merry squealing of the child .
although it be troublesome to look after all the child and keep they out of mischief , and difficult to remember whose be all those little stocking and drawer , not to mix up the shoe of all those different foot , to untie , unbutton , and then fasten up again all the tape and button , yet Dolly , who have always be fond of bathing and consider it good for the child , know no great pleasure than bathe they .
to hold in her hand all those plump little leg , to draw on their stocking , to take the naked little body in her arm and dip they in the water , to hear they shriek now with fear and now with delight , and to see her cherub gasp and splashing , with their frightened yet merry eye , be a great joy .
when half the child be dress again , some smartly - dress peasant woman who have be gather herb come up and halt shyly by the bathing - house .
Matrena Filimonovna call to one of these to ask she to dry a bath - sheet and a chemise that have fall into the water , and Dolly enter into conversation with they .
the peasant woman , who have begin by laugh behind their hand without comprehend her question , soon become bold and more talkative , and at once captivate Dolly by their frank admiration of her child .
' just look at the little beauty , as white as sugar ! ' say one , gaze admiringly at Tanya and stroke her head . ' but she be thin . '
' yes , she be be ill . '
' why , you seem to have be bathe that one too ! ' say the other woman , look at the baby .
' no , she be only three month old , ' dolly answer proudly .
' dear I ! '
' and have you any child ? '
' I have four ; two be leave , a boy and a girl .
I wean she in the spring . '
' how old be she ? '
' in her second year . '
' why do you nurse she so long ? '
' it be our custom . '
and the conversation turn upon the topic that interest Dolly more than any other : confinement , child 's illness , husband ' whereabout , and whether they come home often .
Dolly do not want to part from the peasant woman ; their conversation please she so much because their interest be exactly similar to hers .
what pleased Dolly most be the woman 's evident admiration for the great number of child she have , and their loveliness .
the woman amuse she and offend the english governess , who notice that she be the object of their laughter , which she do not understand .
one of the young woman be watch the governess , who be dress after all the other , and see she put on a third petticoat could not refrain from remark : ' look at she ! she be wrap herself up and wrap herself up , and have not get enough round she yet ! ' and the woman burst out laugh .
surround by HER CHILDREN , all freshly bathe and with head still damp , dolly with a kerchief tie round her own head be near home when the coachman say : ' there be a gentleman come – I think it be the Pokrovsk squire . '
dolly lean forward and be pleased to see the familiar figure of Levin , who in a grey hat and coat be walk toward they .
she be always glad to see he , but on this day be more pleased than ever because he would now see she in all her glory .
no one could understand the dignity of her position well than Levin .
on see she he find himself confront by just such a picture of family life as his fancy paint .
' you be like a hen with her chicken , Darya Alexandrovna ! '
' oh , I be so glad ! ' say she , hold out her hand .
' you be glad , yet you never send I word .
my brother be stay with I .
it be from Stephen I hear , at last , that you be here . '
' from Stephen ? ' ask Dolly in a surprised tone .
' yes , he write that you have move here , and he think I might be of some use to you , ' reply Levin , and having say this grow confused . without finish what he be go to say he continue walk beside the trap , break off twig from the lime tree and bite they .
he be confused because he imagine that Dolly might not like to accept the help of a stranger in matter that ought to be attend to by her husband .
she really do not like the way Oblonsky have of force his family affair upon stranger , and know at once that Levin understand this .
it be for his quick perception and delicacy of feeling that Dolly like he .
' of course I understand that this only mean you want to see I , and be very pleased .
I can well imagine how strange everything here must seem to you , use as you be to manage a town house ; and if you require anything I be quite at your disposal . '
' oh no ! ' say Dolly . ' at first it be inconvenient , but now everything be quite comfortable , thank to my old nurse , ' she say , indicate the nurse , who , aware that she be be mention , look at Levin with a bright and friendly smile .
she know he , know that he would be a good match for the young lady , and hope the affair would come off .
' will not you sit down , sir ? we will move close together , ' she say to Levin .
' no , I will walk .
child , who will race the horse with I ? '
though the child do not know Levin well and do not remember when they have last see he , they do not feel toward he any of that strange shyness and antagonism so often feel by child toward grow - up people who ' pretend , ' which cause they to suffer so painfully .
pretence about anything sometimes deceive the wise and shrewd man , but , however cunningly it be hide , a child of the mean capacity feel it and be repel by it .
whatever Levin 's defect may have be , there be not a trace of pretence about he ; therefore the child evince toward he the same friendliness that they see in their mother 's face .
the two eld , respond to his invitation , at once jump out to he and run with he as they would have do with their nurse , Miss Hull , or their mother .
Lily want to go too , and her mother hand she to he ; he put she on his shoulder and run on .
' do not be afraid ! do not be afraid , Darya Alexandrovna ! there be no fear of my hurting or drop she , ' say he , smile brightly at the mother .
and as she look at his easy , strong , considerate , careful and ultra - cautious movement , the mother lose her fear and look at they with a smile of approval .
here in the country among the child , and in the company of Dolly whom he find very congenial , Levin 's spirit rise to that childlike merriment Dolly like so much in he .
he run about with the child , teach they gymnastic , amuse Miss Hull by his break English and talk to Dolly about his rural occupation .
after dinner , leave alone with he on the veranda , Dolly allude to Kitty .
' do you know Kitty be come here to spend the summer with I ? '
' really ? ' say he , flush up ; and to change the subject he at once add : ' well , then , shall I send you two cow ?
if you insist on square account , pay I five rouble a month , if your conscience allow it . '
' no , thank you .
we be get on all right now . '
' well , then , I will just have a look at your cow and , with your permission , will give direction about the feeding .
everything depend on the feeding . '
to change the conversation Levin go on to explain to Dolly a theory of dairy farming which maintain that a cow be only a machine for the transformation of fodder into milk , and so on .
while say all that , he be passionately longing and yet dread to hear every particular concern Kitty .
he fear that the peace of mind he have acquire with so much effort might be destroy .
' yes , but all that have to be look after , and who be go to do it ? ' remark dolly unwillingly .
have with Matrena Filimonovna 's help get her household into working order , she do not care to make any change ; besides , she have no confidence in Levin 's knowledge of farming .
argument about cow be milk - produce machine do not commend themselves to she , for she imagine that such argument be calculate only to interfere with farming .
all these matter appear much simple to she : all that be necessary , as Matrena Filimonovna say , be to give Spotty and Whiteflank more food and drink , and to see that the cook do not take the kitchen refuse to the laundress for her cow .
that be clear .
but argument about cereal and grass feeding be questionable and vague and , above all , she be anxious to talk about Kitty .
' KITTY write that she WISHES for nothing so much as seclusion and quiet , ' say dolly after a pause in the conversation .
' and her health ! be she well ? ' ask Levin anxiously .
' yes , thank God ! she have quite recover .
I never believe that she have lung trouble . '
' oh , I be so glad ! ' say Levin , and Dolly think she see something pathetic and helpless in his face as he say it , and then silently look at she .
' tell I , Constantine Dmitrich , ' say dolly with her kind though slightly ironical smile , ' why be you angry with Kitty ? '
I be not angry , ' say Levin .
' yes , you be .
why do you not call either on we or on they when you be in Moscow ? '
' Darya Alexandrovna , ' say he , blush to the root of his hair , ' I be surprised that one so kind as you be should not feel what the reason be .
how be it that you have no pity for I , know as you do ... '
' what do I know ? '
' you know I propose and be reject , ' mutter Levin , and the tenderness he have a moment ago feel for Kitty be change into a feeling of anger at the insult .
' why do you think I know ? '
' because everybody know it . '
' in that , at any rate , you be mistaken ; I do not know it , though I have my suspicion . '
' well , anyhow you know it now . '
' all I know be that something have happen that torment she dreadfully , and she ask I never to speak about it .
and since she have not tell I , she will not have tell anybody ...
well , what do happen between you ?
tell I . '
' I have tell you what happen . '
' when be it ? '
' when I last visit you . '
' do you know , ' say Dolly , ' I be terribly , terribly sorry for she !
you be suffer only through pride ... '
' that may be , ' say Levin , ' but ... '
she interrupt he .
' but for she , poor child , I be terribly , terribly sorry .
now I understand everything . '
' well , Darya Alexandrovna , please excuse I ! ' he say rise .
' good - bye , Darya Alexandrovna ; au revoir . '
' no , wait a bit , ' she answer , hold he by the sleeve . ' wait a bit . sit down . '
' please , please do not let we talk about it ! ' say he , sit down again , conscious as he do so that a hope which he have think dead and bury be wake and stir within he .
' if I do not care for you , ' dolly go on , the tear rise to her eye , ' if I do not know you as well as I do ... '
the feeling that seem dead be come to life again , rise and take possession of Levin 's heart .
' yes , now I understand it all , ' continue Dolly . ' you can not understand it , you man who be free and have the choice .
you always know for certain whom you love ; but a young girl in a state of suspense , with her feminine , maidenly delicacy , a girl who only know you man from a distance and be oblige to take everything on trust – such a girl may and do sometimes feel that she do not know what to say . '
' yes , if her heart do not tell she ... '
' oh , no ! the heart do tell she ; but just imagine : you man , have view on a girl , come to the house , get to know she , observe she and bide your time , and when you be quite certain that you love she you propose ... '
' well , it be not quite like that . '
' never mind ! you propose when your love be ripe or when the balance fall in favour of one of those between whom your choice lie .
but a girl be not ask .
she be expect to choose for herself , yet she have no choice ; she can only say " yes " or " no . "- '
' yes , a choice between I and Vronsky , ' think Levin , and the dead hope that have begin to revive in his soul die again and only weigh painfully on his heart .
' Darya Alexandrovna , ' say he , ' in that way one may choose a dress , or ... purchase ... anything ... but not love .
the choice be make , and so much the well ... a repetition be impossible . '
' oh , that pride , that pride ! ' say Dolly , speak as if she despise he for the meanness of his feeling compare to those which only woman know . ' when you propose to Kitty she be just in that state when it be impossible for she to give an answer : she be undecided – undecided between you and Vronsky ; she see he every day , you she have not see for a long time .
I admit that have she be old ...
I , for instance , could not have be undecided in her place .
to I he be always repulsive , and so he have prove in the end . '
Levin recall Kitty 's answer .
she have say , ' no , it can not be . '
' Darya Alexandrovna , ' he reply drily , ' I value your confidence in I , but think you be mistaken .
whether I be right or wrong , that pride which you so despise make any thought of your sister impossible for I – do you understand I ? – perfectly impossible . '
' I will only add just this : you understand that I be speak about my sister , whom I love as much as my own child .
I do not say she love you ; I only wish to tell you that her refusal prove nothing . '
' I do not know ! ' say Levin , jump up . ' if you know how you hurt I !
it be just as if you have lose a child , and they keep on tell you : " now he would have be so and so , and might be live and you rejoice in he , but he be dead , dead , dead ... !"- '
' how funny you be ! ' say Dolly , regard Levin 's agitation with a sad yet mock smile . ' yes , I understand it more and more , ' she add meditatively . ' then you will not come to see we while Kitty be here ? '
' no , I will not .
of course I will not avoid she , but whenever I can I will try to save she the unpleasantness of meet I . '
' you be very , very funny ! ' dolly repeat , look tenderly into his face . ' all right then ! let it be as if nothing have be say about it . ' ' what have you come for , Tanya ? ' say Dolly in French to her little girl , who have just come in .
' where be my spade , Mama ? '
' I be speak French , and you must answer in French . '
the little girl have forget the French for spade , so her mother tell she and go on to say , still in French , where she would find the spade .
all this be disagreeable to Levin .
nothing in Dolly 's house , or about her child seem half as charming as before .
' why do she talk French with the child ? ' he think . ' how unnatural and false it be !
and the child feel it .
teach they french and deprive they of sincerity , ' think he , not know that Dolly have consider the point over and over again and have decide that even to the detriment of their sincerity the child have to be teach French :
' where be you hurry to ?
stay a little long . '
so Levin stay to tea , though his bright spirit have quite vanish and he feel ill at ease .
after tea he go out to tell his coachman to harness and when he return he find dolly excited , a worried look on her face and tear in her eye .
in Levin 's absence an event take place which suddenly put an end to the joy and pride that Dolly have be feel all day .
Grisha and Tanya have a fight about a ball .
Dolly , hear their scream , run up to the nursery and find they in a dreadful state .
Tanya be hold Grisha by the hair , and he , his face distort with anger , be hit she at random with his fist .
Dolly 's heart sink when she see this .
a shadow seem to have fall on her life ; she recognize that these child , of whom she have be so proud , be not only quite ordinary but even bad and ill - breed child , with coarse animal inclination – in fact , vicious child .
she could think and speak of nothing else , and yet could not tell Levin her trouble .
Levin see that she be unhappy , and try to comfort she by say that it do not prove that anything be wrong with they , that all child fight ; but as he speak he think to himself : ' no , I will not humbug my child and will not speak French with they . but I sha not have child like these .
all that be need be not to spoil or pervert child , and then they will be splendid . no , my child will not be like these ! '
he say good - bye and leave , and she do not try to detain he any long .
in the MIDDLE of JULY the elder from the village belong to Levin 's sister ( which lie fifteen mile from Pokrovsk ) come to see Levin and report on business matter and on the hay - harvest .
the chief income from his sister 's estate be derive from the meadow , which be flood every spring .
in former year the peasant use to buy the grass , pay seven rouble per acre for it .
when Levin take over the management of the estate he look into the matter , and , conclude that the grass be worth more , fix the price at eight rouble .
the peasant would not pay so much , and Levin suspect they of keep other buyer off .
then he go there himself and arrange to have the harvest gather in partly by hire labourer and partly by peasant pay in kind .
the local man oppose this innovation by all the mean in their power , but the plan succeed , and in the first year the meadow bring in almost double .
the next and third year the peasant still hold out and the harvest be get in by the same mean .
but this year the peasant have agree to get the harvest in and take one - third of all the hay in payment . now the elder have come to inform Levin that the hay be all make and that for fear of rain he have ask the steward to come , and in his presence have apportion the hay and have already stack eleven stack of the landlord 's share .
from the elder 's vague reply to Levin 's question as to how much hay the large meadow have yield , from his haste to apportion the hay without wait for permission , and from the general tone of the peasant , Levin know that there be something not quite square about the apportionment , and decide to go and investigate the matter himself .
Levin arrive at his sister 's village at noon and leave his horse with a friendly old peasant , the husband of his brother 's nurse . wish to hear particular of the hay harvest from this old man , Levin go to speak to he in his apiary .
Parmenich , a loquacious , handsome old man , welcome Levin joyfully , show he over his homestead , and tell he all about the swarm of his bee that year ; but to Levin 's question about the hay - harvest he give vague and reluctant answer .
this still far confirm Levin 's suspicion .
he go to inspect the hay , examine the stack , and see that there could not be fifty cartload in each . to put the peasant to the proof Levin order the cart on which the hay be be move to be fetch , and one of the stack to be carry to the barn .
there be only thirty - two load in the stack .
in spite of the elder 's explanation that the hay have be loose , but have settle down in the stack , and his swearing that all have be do in a ' godly way , ' Levin insist that the hay have be apportion without his order and that he would not accept the stack as contain fifty load each .
after lengthy dispute it be settle that the peasant themselves should take those eleven stack , count they at fifty load each and that the owner 's share should be measure afresh .
these dispute and the apportioning of the haycock go on till it be time for the evening meal .
when the last of the hay have be apportion , Levin entrust the rest of the supervision to the steward and seat himself on a haycock mark with a willow branch , look with enjoyment at the meadow teem with busy people .
before he , within the bend of the river , beyond a marsh , move a line of gaily - clothe woman , merrily chatter in their ring voice , while the scattered hay be quickly form into grey wave ridge on the light green meadow .
man with hayforks follow the woman , and the ridge grow into tall , wide and light haycock .
to the left , cart rattle along the bare meadow , and one after another the haycock vanish , pick up in enormous forkfuls , and their place be take by heavy cart with their huge load of scent hay overhang the horse ' back .
' make hay while the sun shine , and you will have plenty , ' remark the old beekeeper , sit down beside Levin . ' it be more like tea than hay !
see they pick it up , like duckling pick up the food you 've throw to they ! ' he add , point to where the hay be be load on the cart . ' they 've cart a good half since dinner time ...
be that the last ? ' he shout to a lad who be drive past , stand on the front of a cart and flick the end of his hempen rein .
' the last one , father , ' shout the lad , rein in the horse and smilingly turn to a rosy young woman who , also smile , sit inside the cart ; then he drive on again .
' who be that ?
your son ? ' ask Levin .
' my young , ' reply the old man with a smile of affection .
' a fine fellow ! '
' not a bad lad . '
' and already marry ? '
' yes , just over two year . '
' have they any child ? '
' child !
all the first year he do not understand anything ; and we chaff he , ' answer the old man .
' well , this be hay ! regular tea ! ' say he again , in order to change the subject .
Levin look more attentively at Vanka Parmenich and his wife .
they be load their cart not far away .
Vanka stand inside the cart pat and stamp down evenly in the cart the enormous bale of hay which his young wife first pass to he in armful and then pitch up on the fork .
the young woman be work with ease , cheerfulness and skill .
the fork could not at once penetrate the broad - blade compressed hay , so she first loosen it with the prong , then with a quick and springy movement , put all the weight of her body on the fork , quickly straighten her red - girdled figure and stand erect , her full bosom throw forward beneath the pinafore , and turn the fork dexterously , she pitch the hay high up into the cart .
Vanka , with evident desire to save she every moment of unnecessary exertion , hurriedly catch the hay in his outspread arm and smooth it evenly in the cart .
when she have lift the remain hay to he with a rake , she shake the chaff from her neck , straighten the kerchief that have slip from her forehead , which show white where the sun have not reach it , and crawl under the cart to help rope up .
Vanka show she how to do this , and burst out laugh at something she say .
strong , young , newly - awaken love shine in both their face .
the HAY be roped .
Vanka jump down and take the bridle lead away the good , well - fed horse .
his wife throw her rake on top of the load , and swinge her arm go with vigorous step to join the other woman who have gather in a circle .
having come out upon the road , Vanka take his place in the line of cart .
the woman , carry their rake over their shoulder , follow the cart , their coloured dress gleam brightly and their chatter ring merrily .
one of the woman with a strange gruff voice start a song and sing it to the end , when fifty powerful voice , some gruff and other shrill , all at once take it up with a will .
the singe woman be draw near to Levin and he feel as if a thundercloud of merriment be approach .
the cloud move past , envelop he and the haycock upon which he sit , and the other haycocks , the cart , the whole of the meadow , and the distant field . they all seem to vibrate and heave with the strain of that wild , madly merry song , intersperse with scream and whistling .
Levin envy they their healthy gaiety and feel a wish to take part in that expression of the joy of live ; but he could do nothing except lie and look and listen .
when the company and their song vanish out of sight and hearing , an oppressive feeling of discontent with his own lonely lot , his physical idleness and his hostility to the world overcome Levin .
some of those very peasant who have dispute with he about the hay – whom either he have wrong or who have try to cheat he – those very peasant have bow pleasantly to he , evidently not harbour , and unable to harbour , any ill - will toward he , be not only unrepentant but even forgetful that they have be try to cheat he .
all have be drown in the sea of their joyful common toil .
God have give they the day and the strength , and both the day and the strength have be devote to labour which have bring its own reward .
for whom they have labour and what the fruit of their labour would be be an extraneous and unimportant affair .
Levin have often admire that kind of life , have often envy the folk who live it ; but that day , especially after what he have see for the first time of the relation between Vanka Parmenich and his young wife , it strike he that it depend on himself to change his wearisome , idle , and artificial personal life for that pure , delightful life of common toil .
the old man who have be sit beside he have long since go home .
the peasant who live near by have also go home , and those from a distance have gather together to have supper and spend the night in the meadow .
Levin , unnoticed by they , still lie on the haycock , look , listen , and thinking .
the peasant who be stay in the meadow keep awake almost all the short summer night .
at first the sound of merry general talk and shout of laughter over their supper could be hear , then song and more laughter .
the whole long day of toil have leave upon they no trace of anything but merriment .
just before dawn all become silent .
the sound of night – the ceaseless croaking of frog , the snorting of horse through the morning mist over the meadow – could alone be hear .
awake to reality Levin rise from his haycock , and glance up at the star realize that the night be nearly over .
' well , then , what shall I do ?
how shall I do it ? ' he ask himself , try to find expression for what he have be think and the feeling he have live through in that short night .
all his idea and feeling separate themselves into three different line of thought .
the first be how to renounce his old life and discard his quite useless education .
this renunciation would afford he pleasure and be quite easy and simple .
the second be concern with his notion of the life he now wish to lead .
he be distinctly conscious of the simplicity , purity , and rightness of that life , and be convince that in it he would find satisfaction , peace , and dignity , the absence of which be so painful to he .
but the third thought be the question of how to make the change from his present life to that other one .
and here no clear idea present itself to his mind .
should he have a wife ?
should he have work and the necessity to work ?
should he leave Pokrovsk , buy land , join a peasant commune , marry a peasant girl ? '
how be I to do it ? ' he again ask himself . , and could find no reply .
' however , I have not sleep all night and can not render a clear account of myself now , ' he think , ' but I will clear it up later .
one thing be certain : this night have decide my fate .
all my former dream of a family life be nonsense – not the right thing . everything be much simple and well than that ... '
' how beautiful ! ' he think , look up at a strange mother - of - pearl coloured shell form of fleecy cloud , in the centre of the sky just over his head . ' how lovely everything be , this lovely night !
and how do this shell get form so quickly ?
a little while ago when I look at the sky all be clear , but for two white strip .
my view of life have change in just the same unnoticeable way . '
leave the meadow , he go down the high road toward the village .
a slight breeze be blow and all look grey and dull .
there be generally a period of gloom just before daybreak and the complete triumph of light over darkness . shiver with cold Levin walk rapidly with his eye fix on the ground .
' what be that ? who can it be come ? ' think he , hear the tinkling of bell and raise his head .
at a distance of forty pace along the road on which he be walk he see a coach with four horse abreast and luggage on top approach he .
the horse be press close together away from the rut , but the skilful driver , sit sideways on the box , guide they so that the coach wheel run smoothly in the rut .
that be all Levin notice , and without wonder who might be inside he glance in at the window absent - mindedly .
in one corner an elderly woman be doze ; and close to the window sit a young girl who have just waken and be hold the ribbon of her white nightcap with both hand .
bright and thoughtful , full of that complicated refinement of a life to which Levin be a stranger , she look across he at the glow of dawn .
at the very moment when this vision be about to disappear , her candid eye fall on he .
she recognize he and joyful surprise light up her face .
he could not be mistaken .
there be no other eye in the world like they .
in the whole world there be only one be able to unite in itself the universe and the meaning of life for he .
it be Kitty .
he guess that she be on her way from the station to her sister 's house at Ergushevo .
all that have so disturbed Levin during the sleepless night and all his resolution vanish suddenly .
he recall with disgust his thought of marry a peasant girl .
there alone , inside that coach on the other side of the road , so rapidly recede from he , be the one possible solution of that riddle which have be weigh on he so painfully of late .
she do not look out again .
the sound of the wheel could no long be hear ; the tinkle of the bell grow fainter .
the barking of dog prove that the coach be pass through the village , and only the empty field , the village before he , and he himself walk solitary on the deserted road , be leave .
he look up at the sky , hope to find there the shell he have be admire , which have typify for he the reflection and feeling of the night .
there in the unfathomable height a mystic change be go on and he could see no sign of anything like a shell ; but a large cover of gradually diminish fleecy cloudlet be spread over half the sky , which have turn blue and grow bright .
it answer his questioning look with the same tenderness and the same remoteness .
' no , ' say he to himself . ' beautiful as be that life of simplicity and toil , I can not turn to it .
I love she ! '
none but those who know KARENIN most intimately know that this apparently cold and sober - minded man have one weakness , quite inconsistent with the general trend of his character .
Karenin could not with equanimity hear or see a child or a woman weep .
the sight of tear upset he and make he quite incapable of reasoning .
the chief of his staff and his secretary know this and warn woman who come with petition that they should on no account give way to tear if they do not want to spoil their case .
' he will get angry and will not listen to you , ' they say ; and in such case the mental perturbation which tear produce in Karenin really find expression in hurried burst of anger .
' I can do nothing for you .
kindly go away ! ' he would shout on these occasion .
when Anna on their way home from the race announce to he what her relation with Vronsky be and immediately hide her face in her hand and begin cry , Karenin , despite his indignation with she , be as usual overcome by that mental perturbation .
be aware of this and of the fact that any expression he could at that moment find for his feeling would be incompatible with the situation , he try to conceal all sign of life within himself and neither move nor look at she .
that be the cause of the strange deathlike look on his face which have so strike Anna .
when they reach home he help she out of the carriage and take leave of she with his usual courtesy , utter noncommittal word ; he say he would let she know his decision next day .
his wife 's word , confirm as they do his bad suspicion , have give Karenin a cruel pain in his heart .
this pain be render more acute by physical pity for she , evoke by her tear .
but when alone in the carriage , to his surprise and joy he feel completely relieve of that pity and of the suspicion and jealousy that have lately so torment he . he feel like a man who have just have a tooth draw which have be hurt he a long time .
after terrible pain and a sensation as if something enormous , big than his whole head , be be pull out of his jaw , he feel , scarcely believe in his happiness , that the thing which have so long be poison his life and engross his attention no long exist , and that it be possible again to live , think , and be interested in other thing .
what Karenin experience be a feeling of this kind : it have be a strange and terrible pain , but it be past , and he feel he could again live , and think of other thing beside his wife .
' without honour , without heart , without religion ; a depraved woman !
I know it and could see it all along , though I try out of pity for she to deceive myself , ' think he .
and it really seem to he that he have always see it . he recall all the detail of their past life , and detail which he have not previously consider wrong now prove to he clearly that she have always be deprave .
' I make a mistake when I bind up my life with hers , but in my mistake there be nothing blameworthy , therefore I ought not to be unhappy .
it be not I who be guilty , ' he say to himself , ' but it be she .
she do not concern I .
she do not exist for I . '
what would happen to she and to her son , toward whom his feeling have change as they have toward she , no long occupy his mind .
the one thing that preoccupy he be the question of how he could well divest himself of the mud with which she in her fall have bespatter he : of how to do it in the way which would be most decent , most convenient for he , and consequently fairest , and how he should continue his active , honest , and useful career .
' I ought not to be unhappy because a despicable woman have commit a crime , but I must find the good way out of this painful situation in which she have place I . and find it I will , ' say he to himself , frown more and more .
' I be not the first and shall not be the last ' ; and without take into account the historical instance of wife ' unfaithfulness , begin with Menelaus and La Belle Hélène [ a comic opera , by Offenbach , just then in vogue in Moscow and Petersburg . ] whose memory have just recently be fresh in everybody 's mind , quite a number of case of infidelity , the infidelity of modern wife , occur to Karenin .
' Daryalov , Poltavsky , Prince Karibanov , Count Paskudin , Dram ...
yes , even Dram – that honest , business - like fellow ...
Semenov , Chagin , Sigonin : .. ' he pass they in review . ' it be true a kind of unreasonable ridicule fall on these man , but I never could see it in any other light than as a misfortune , and feel nothing but sympathy , ' Karenin reflect , though it be not true : he have never feel any sympathy of the kind , and the more case he have come across of husband be betray by their wife the well the opinion he have have of himself .
' it be a misfortune that may befall anyone and it have befall I .
the only question be , how good to face the situation . '
and he begin mentally review the course pursue by other man in similar position .
' Daryalov fight a duel ... '
in his youth Karenin have be particularly attract by the idea of duelling , just because he be physically a timid man and be quite aware of it .
he could not think without horror of a pistol be level at he and have never use any kind of weapon .
this horror have in his youth often induce he to take mental measure of his strength , in case he should ever be confront by a situation in which it would be necessary to face danger .
since , however , he have achieve success and gain a firm position in the world he have long forget that feeling ; but the old habit now revive and claim its own , and the fear of be a coward be again so strong that he consider this point a long time and flatter his vanity with the idea of a duel , though he know beforehand that he would on no account fight one .
' of course our Society be still so uncivilized – not as in England – that very many ' ( among the many be those whose opinion Karenin particularly value ) ' would regard a duel as the right thing ; but what object would be gain ?
supposing I challenge he ... ' continue Karenin ; and vividly picture to himself the night he would spend after the challenge , and the sensation of have a pistol point at he , he shudder and realize that he would never do it . ' suppose , ' he go on , ' they show I how to do it , place I , and I pull the trigger ... '
he close his eye ... ' and it turn out that I have kill he ... ' and he shake his head to drive away the stupid thought . ' what sense be there in kill a man in order to define one 's relation with a guilty wife and a son ?
nevertheless , I shall have to decide what to do with she .
' but what be even more likely – and sure to happen – be that I should be kill or wound .
then I , an innocent man , should be the victim .
that would be still more senseless .
and this be not all . a challenge from I would not be an honest action .
do I not know beforehand that my friend would never allow I to go so far as to fight a duel , would not allow a statesman whom Russia need to expose himself to danger ?
what , then , would happen ?
this would happen : I , know beforehand that matter would never be allow to reach a dangerous point , should have challenge a man in order to cover myself with false glamour .
that would be dishonest , it would be false , it would be deceive myself as well as other .
no ! a duel be unthinkable and no one expect it of I .
my aim be to safeguard my reputation , which I need for the uninterrupted pursuit of my career . '
his official pursuit , which have always appear essential to Karenin , now assume even great importance .
having consider and reject the idea of a duel , Karenin turn his thought to divorce , the next expedient of which some of the wrong husband he remember have avail themselves .
go over all the case of divorce he know – there be very many , and in the high Society , with which he be well acquaint – Karenin could not recall one in which the purpose of the divorce be the one he have in view .
in all these case the husband have cede or sell the unfaithful wife , and the very person who accord to law have no right to re - marry enter into fictitious , pseudo - legal relation with a pretended husband .
Karenin see that in his own case it would be impossible to obtain a legal divorce – that is , a divorce in which the guilty wife would be simply cast off .
he know that in their complex condition of life it would not be possible to obtain those coarse proof of a wife 's infidelity which the law demand ; he know that in that life there be a certain convention of refinement which would not allow he to bring forward such proof , have they exist , because such an action would make he sink even lower than she in public opinion .
to attempt a divorce could only lead to a lawsuit and a scandal which would give his enemy great opportunity for calumny , and would lower his high position in Society .
the chief object of his life , the settling of condition with the least possible amount of disturbance , could not be further by divorce .
besides , it be evident that as a consequence of divorce the wife would break off relation with her husband and unite with her lover .
in Karenin 's soul , however , despite the complete and contemptuous indifference he think he feel for his wife , there be one feeling leave with regard to she : an objection to she be in a position to unite unhindered with Vronsky , so make her crime advantageous to she .
the very thought of it irritate he to such an extent that he groan with inner pain , rise , and change his place in the carriage and for a long while after that he sit wrap his fluffy rug round his bony , easily - chilled leg .
' besides a formal divorce , it would be possible to act as Karibanov , Paskudin , and that good - natured Dram do , and just separate , ' he resume when he have grow calm again ; but this measure would have all the inconvenience of a divorce - scandal , and would throw his wife into Vronsky 's arm just in the same way .
' no , it be impossible , impossible ! ' he say aloud , again wrap the rug round his leg , ' I can not be unhappy , but she and he must not be happy . '
the jealousy that have torment he during the period of uncertainty have leave he when his wife 's word have with great pain draw that ache tooth .
but another feeling have now take the place of the jealousy : it be a wish that his wife 's guilt should meet with retribution .
he do not acknowledge it to himself , but in the depth of his soul he wish she to suffer for impair his peace of mind and his honour .
and having review the possibility of a duel , of divorce , and of separation , and having again reject they , Karenin come to the conclusion that there be only one course to be follow : to keep she with he , hide from the world what have happen , and take all necessary step to put a stop to her love - affair , and above all ( though he do not confess this to himself to punish she .
' I must inform she of my decision , that after consider the painful situation in which she have place her family , I think that an external status quo would be well for both party than any other expedient , and that I be prepared to keep to that on the strict understanding on her part that she will obey my will and break off relation with her lover . ' in confirmation of this decision , after it have already be reach , another powerful argument occur to Karenin .
' it be only by this course that I can conform with religion , ' say he to himself . ' it be the only way that make it possible for I not to disown my guilty wife and to give she a chance of repent , and even , painful as it will be , to devote part of my power to her redemption . '
though Karenin know that he could have no moral influence on his wife , that all his attempt to redeem she would lead to nothing but lie , and although during the painful moment he have live through he have not once think of seek guidance in religion , now that his decision be , as he imagine , in conformity with religion , its sanction afford he great satisfaction and even some comfort .
it be pleasant to think that no one would have a right to say that in such an important crisis in his life he have not act in accordance with that religion whose banner he have always hold aloft amid general coldness and indifference .
proceeding to consider further detail , Karenin could not even see why his relation with his wife should not remain almost the same as before .
he could of course never again revive his respect for she ; but there be no occasion for he to spoil his own life and to suffer just because she have prove a bad and unfaithful wife .
' yes , time go on ; and time , which cure everything , will restore the old condition , ' say Karenin to himself . ' that is , it will restore they in so far that I shall not have this worry during the rest of my life .
she must be unhappy , but I be not guilty and therefore I can not suffer . '
by the TIME he reach petersburg Karenin have not only resolve to keep to his decision , but have mentally compose a letter to his wife .
on enter the hall of his house he glance at the letter and paper which have be send from the Ministry and order they to be bring into his study .
' tell he to unharness ; and no one be to be admit , ' he say in answer to the hall - porter 's inquiry , accentuate with a certain pleasure the word admit . it be a sign that he be in good spirit .
he pace twice up and down his study and then halt at the gigantic writing - table , on which his valet have already light six candle . crack his finger , he sit down and arrange his writing material .
with his elbow on the table and his head bent to one side he sit and think for a minute , and then write without an instant 's pause .
he do not begin by address she , and write in French , use the plural pronoun you , which in French do not sound as cold and distant as it do in Russian .
' during our last conversation I express my intention of communicate my decision with reference to the subject of that conversation .
having carefully and fully consider everything , I now write to fulfil my promise .
my decision be as follow : whatever your action may have be , I do not consider myself justify in sever the bond with which a Higher Power have unite we .
a family must not be break up through the caprice , perversity , or even crime , of one of the married couple , and our life must go on as heretofore .
this be unavoidable for my sake , for your , and for that of our son .
I be perfectly convinced that you have repent , and be repent , of the action which have lead to this letter , and will completely co - operate with I to eradicate the cause of our discord and to forget the past .
if not , you can yourself foresee what await you and your son .
I hope to talk all this over with you in more detail at a personal interview .
as the summer season be draw to a close , I would ask you to return to Petersburg as soon as possible , and not later than Tuesday .
all necessary preparation shall be make for your return .
I beg you to note that I attach importance to this request of mine .
a. KARENIN
' P.S. – I enclose some money , which you may need for your expense . '
he read the letter over and be satisfied with it , especially with having remember to enclose the money ; there be not a single cruel word or threat in it , yet it be not yield in tone .
above all it provide a golden bridge for she to return by .
having fold the letter , smooth it out with a massive ivory paper - knife , and put it and the money in an envelope – with the pleasure that the use of his well - arrange writing appliance always cause he – he ring .
' give this to the messenger , and tell he to take it to the country , to Anna Arkadyevna , to - morrow , ' he say , and get up .
' yes , your Excellency ! shall tea be serve in the study ? '
Karenin assent , and , toy with his paper - knife , go to his arm - chair , beside which a lamp be burn and a french book about the Eugubine Tables be lie ready .
above the arm - chair hang a beautifully paint portrait of Anna by a celebrated artist .
to Karenin the splendidly paint black lace on the head , the black hair , and the beautiful white hand with many ring on the third finger , suggest something intolerably bold and provocative .
after look at the portrait for about a minute he shudder and his lip tremble and make a sound like ' brr ' as he turn away .
he sit down hurriedly and open his book .
he try to read but could not awaken in himself the lively interest he have feel for the Eugubine Tables .
his eye be on the book but he be think about something else .
he be not think of his wife but of a complication that have recently arise in his official activity and at present constitute the chief interest of his work .
he feel that he now see more deeply than ever into that complication , and that a capital idea ( he might say that without flatter himself ) have occur to he , which would disentangle the whole business , raise he in his official career , upset his enemy , and therefore be of the great value to the State .
as soon as the footman , who have bring in the tea , have leave the room , Karenin rise and go to the writing - table .
draw toward himself the portfolio of current affair , with a scarcely perceptible smile of self - satisfaction , he take a pencil from the stand and become absorb in read some intricate paper he have send for , relate to the impending complication .
the complication be this : Karenin 's official peculiarity , his characteristic trait ( every successful official have his special trait ) , which together with his determined ambition , self - restraint , honesty , and self - confidence , have make he successful , consist in a contempt for red - tape , a curtailment of correspondence , economy , and ( as far as possible ) a direct relation with real fact .
it so happen that the important Committee of June 2nd have have bring before it the question of irrigation in the Zaraysk Province , which belong to Karenin 's Department , and present a striking example of unproductive expenditure and useless red - tape method .
Karenin know that this be really so .
the field - irrigation of the Zaraysk Province have be start by the predecessor of Karenin 's predecessor .
a great deal of money have be and be be spend quite unproductively on that business , and it be evident that the scheme would lead to nothing .
when Karenin have first take up his present post he have at once realize this and have wish to stop it ; but , till he feel himself firmly seat , he know that it would not be wise to do so as too many interest be involve . afterwards , be occupy with other matter , he have simply forget the business .
like all such matter it go on of itself , by inertia .
( many people live by it , especially one very moral and musical family in which the daughter all play stringed instrument .
Karenin be acquaint with that family and give away one of the daughter at her marriage . )
the raising of this question by a hostile Department be , in Karenin 's opinion , dishonest , because in every Ministry there be still graver matter which , out of recognize official decency , no one ever question .
but since the gauntlet have be throw down , he would take it up boldly and would demand the appointment of a special Committee to investigate and report upon the work of the Committee of Irrigation in the Zaraysk Province , but at the same time he would not yield an inch to those gentleman who have raise the question .
he would demand the appointment of a special Committee to inquire into the case of the subject race in that Province .
the case of the subject race have be accidentally raise at the Committee of 2nd June and have be energetically insist on by Karenin , as a matter of urgency in view of their wretched condition .
at the Committee this question have cause conflict between several ministry .
the Ministry oppose to Karenin have argue that the condition of the subject race be most flourishing and that the project rearrangement might destroy their prosperity , while , if there be really anything unsatisfactory , it all result from the neglect by Karenin 's Department of the measure prescribe by the law .
now Karenin mean to demand , first , that a new Commission should be form to investigate locally the condition of the subject race ; secondly , should those condition prove to be such as they appear to be from the official report already receive , that another scientific Commission should be appoint to study the cause of this deplorable condition of the subject race , in the follow aspect : ( a ) political , ( b ) Administrative ( c ) economic , ( d ) Ethnographic , ( e ) Material , and ( f ) religious ; thirdly , that information should be demand from the hostile Department concern the measure it have take during the last ten year to avert the unfavourable condition to which the subject race be now expose ; and fourthly , that the Department in question should be require to explain why it have act in direct contradiction to the meaning of the fundamental and organic law ( Vol.- , Article 18 , and footnote to Article 36 ) , as appear from the statement submit to the Committee and number 17015 and 183o8 , of 5th December 1863 and th June 1864 .
a flush of animation suffuse Karenin 's face as he rapidly write out a summary of these idea .
having cover a sheet of foolscap he rise , ring , and send off a note to his Chief Secretary , ask for some necessary reference that have to be look up .
after walk up and down the room he again look at the portrait , frown , and smile contemptuously .
he once more take up the book on the Eugubine Tables and , having reawaken an interest in they , at eleven o'clock go to bed , and when as he lie there he remember what have occur with his wife , it no long appear to he in such gloomy colour .
THOUGH ANNA have ANGRILY and obstinately contradict Vronsky when he say that her position be an impossible one , in the depth of her soul she feel that the situation be a false one and wish with all her heart to put an end to it .
on her way back from the race , in a moment of excitement in spite of the pain it cause she – she have tell her husband everything , and she be glad she have do so .
after he leave she , she tell herself that she be glad she have tell he , that now everything would be definite – at any rate , the falsehood and deception would no long exist .
she think it quite certain that her position would be clear up for good .
her new position might be a bad one but it would be definite , and there would be no vagueness or falsehood .
the pain she have inflict on herself and her husband would now , she think , be compensate for by the fact that the matter would be settle .
she see Vronsky that same evening , but do not tell he what have pass between she and her husband , though he would have to be tell before her position could be settle .
when she wake up in the morning the first thing that come into her mind be what she have say to her husband , and it now appear so terrible that she could not understand how she have be able to utter such strange and coarse word and could not imagine what result they would have .
but the word have be speak and Karenin have go away without say anything .
' I see Vronsky and do not tell he .
just as he be go away I wish to call he back and tell he , but change my mind , because my not having do so at first would have appear strange .
why do I not tell he ? '
and in answer to this question a hot blush of shame spread all over her face .
she know what have stop she , know she have be ashamed .
the situation which the night before have appear to be clear up now seem quite hopeless .
she dread the disgrace , which she have not consider before .
when she think of what her husband would do , the most terrible fancy come into her head .
she fancy that presently the steward would come and turn she out of the house and that her disgrace would be proclaim to all the world .
she ask herself where she would go when turn out , and find no answer .
when she think about Vronsky , she imagine that he do not love she , that he be begin to find she a burden , and that she could not offer herself to he ; and in consequence she feel hostile toward he .
she feel as if the word she have use to her husband , which she keep repeat in imagination , have be say by she to every one and that every one have hear they .
she have not the courage to look into the eye of the people she live with .
she could not make up her mind to call her maid , and still less to go down and face her son and his governess .
the maid , who have long be listen at the door , at last come in of her own accord .
Anna look inquiringly into her eye and blush with alarm .
the maid beg pardon and say she think she have hear the bell .
she bring a dress and a note .
the note be from Betsy , who remind she that she ( Betsy ) be that day expect Lisa Merkalova and the Baroness Stolz , with their admirer Kaluzhsky and old Stremov , to a game of croquet .
' do come , if only to study manner and custom .
I expect you , ' she write in conclusion .
Anna read the note and sigh deeply . ' I do not want anything , anything at all , ' she say to Annushka , who be move the bottle and brush on the dressing table .
' I will get dress and come down at once . I want nothing , nothing at all . '
Annushka go out , but Anna do not get dress . she remain in the same position with head and arm droop .
every now and then her whole body shudder as she try to make some movement or to say something and then become rigid again .
' oh , my God !
my God ! ' she keep repeat , but neither the word God or my have any meaning for she .
the thought of seek comfort in religion , though she have never doubt the truth of the religion in which she have be bring up , be as foreign to she as ask Karenin for help would have be .
she know that she could find no help in religion unless she be prepared to give up that which alone give a meaning to her life .
she be not only disturbed , but be begin to be afraid of a new mental condition such as she have never before experienced .
she feel as if everything be be double in her soul , just as object appear double to weary eye .
sometimes she could not tell what she fear and what she desire .
whether she fear and desire what have be , or what would be , and what it be she desire she do not know .
' oh , dear ! what be I do ! ' she say to herself suddenly , feel pain in both side of her head .
when she come to her sense she find that she be clutch her hair and press her temple with both hand .
she jump up and begin pace up and down the room .
' coffee be ready , and Ma'm'selle and Serezha be wait , ' say Annushka , come in again and find Anna in the same position .
' Serezha ? what of Serezha ? '
Anna ask , revive suddenly , as for the first time that morning she remember the existence of her son .
' it seem he have get into trouble , ' answer Annushka with a smile .
' into trouble , how ? '
' you have some peach in the corner room ; it seem he have eat one of they on the quiet . '
the thought of her son at once take Anna out of the hopeless condition she have be in .
she remember that partly sincere but greatly exaggerated role of a mother live for her son which she have assume during the last five year ; and feel with joy that in the position in which she find herself she have still one stay , independent of her relation with her husband and Vronsky .
that stay be her son .
whatever position she might accept she could not give up her son .
let her husband disgrace she , let Vronsky grow cold toward she and continue to live his own independent life ( again she think of he with bitterness and reproach ) , she could not give up her son : she have an aim in life and must act so as to ensure her position toward her son , while they have not yet take he from she .
she must take he away .
that be the only thing to do at present .
she must be calm and escape from this terrible situation .
the thought of decide action concern with her son – of go away somewhere with he – make she feel calm .
she dress quickly and with determined step enter the drawing - room , where Serezha and his governess be wait breakfast for she as usual .
Serezha , dress all in white , be stand by a table under a look - glass , and arrange some flower he have bring , with bent head and back , show that strain attention familiar to she in which he resemble his father .
his governess be look exceptionally stern .
Serezha exclaim in a pierce voice , as he often do , ' ah ! Mama ! ' and stop , hesitate whether to go and bid her good - morning and leave the flower , or to finish the crown he be make and take it to she .
the governess begin to give a long and detailed account of his misconduct , but Anna do not listen to she . she be wonder whether to take she also or not .
' no , I will not , ' she decide . ' I will go alone with my son . '
' yes , that be very wrong , ' say Anna , and put her hand on his shoulder she look at he not with a severe but with a timid expression which confuse and gladden the boy . she kiss he . ' leave he to I , ' she say to the astonished governess and still hold his hand she sit down at the breakfast table .
' mama ! I ...
I ... I ... ' he say , try to find out from her face what he be to expect for eat the peach .
' Serezha , ' she say as soon as the governess have go away , ' it be wrong , but you will not do it again ? ... you love I ? '
she feel the tear come into her eye .
' as if I could help love he , ' she say to herself , look into his frightened and yet happy face . ' and be it possible that he would take side with his father to torment I ? '
the tear be already stream down her cheek , and in order to hide they she jump up abruptly and go out on to the verandah .
after the thunderstorm of the last few day the weather have grow clear and cold .
she shiver with cold , and with the terror that seize she with new power out in the open air .
' go to Mariette , ' she say to Serezha , who have come out after she , and she begin pace up and down the straw matting of the verandah .
' be it possible that they could not forgive I or understand that it could not have be otherwise ? ' she ask herself .
she stop and look at the crown of an aspen tremble in the wind , with its clean - washed leave glisten brilliantly in the cold sunshine , and she feel that they would not forgive , that everybody would now be as pitiless toward she as the sky and the tree , and again she feel that duality in her soul .
' no , no , I must not think , ' she say to herself ; ' I must get ready to go .
where ?
when ?
whom shall I take with I ? '
' to Moscow ? yes , by the evening train , with Annushka and Serezha , and with only the most necessary thing .
but first I must write to both of they . '
she quickly go to her sitting - room and write to her husband .
' after what have happen I can no long remain in your house .
I be go away and take my son .
I do not know the law and therefore I do not know to which of his parent a son must be leave , but I be take he because I can not live without he .
be generous and leave he to I ! '
up to that point she write quickly and naturally , but the appeal to his generosity , in which she do not believe , and the necessity of finish the letter with something move , stop she ...
' I can not speak of my fault and my repentance because ... '
she stop again , unable to connect her thought .
' no , I will say nothing , ' she think , tear up the letter , re - write it , omit the reference to his generosity , and seal it . the other letter she mean to write be to Vronsky .
' I have inform my husband , ' she begin , and be unable to write any more .
it seem so coarse and unwomanly .
' besides , what can I write to he ? ' she ask herself ; and again she blush with shame .
she think of his calmness , and a feeling of vexation with he make she tear the paper to piece , with the one sentence write on it .
' there be no need to write anything , ' she think , close her blotting - book , go upstairs to tell the governess and the servant that she be go to Moscow that evening , and then begin pack .
in all the room of the country house porter , gardener , and footman go about carry out the thing .
cupboard and chest of drawer stand open , twice the near shop have be send to for ball of string . the floor be strew with newspaper .
two trunk , several bag , and some strap - up rug have be take down to the hall .
a closed carriage and two izvoshchik be wait at the front porch .
Anna , who have forget her agitation while she be work , stand at a table in the sit - room pack her hand - bag when Annushka draw her attention to the noise of approach carriage wheel .
Anna look out and see Karenin 's messenger in the porch ring the bell .
' go and see what it be , ' she say , and , calmly prepare for anything , sit down in an easy - chair and fold her hand on her knee .
a footman bring she a thick envelope address in her husband 's handwriting .
' the messenger have be tell to wait for an answer , ' he say .
' all right , ' she reply , and as soon as he have go she tear open the envelope with tremble finger .
a packet of new still unfold note in a paper band fall out .
she unfold the letter and read the end first : ' all necessary preparation shall be make for your return .
I beg you will note that I attach importance to this request of mine , ' she read .
having glance through it , she go back and read it again from the beginning .
when she have finish she feel cold , and know that a more dreadful misfortune have befall she than she have ever expect .
she have that morning repent of having tell her husband and wish it be possible to unsay her word ; and here be a letter treat her word as unsaid and give she what she have desire ; but now the letter appear more terrible than anything she could have imagine .
' he be in the right , he be in the right ! ' she mutter ; ' of course he always be in the right , he be a Christian , he be magnanimous !
yes , a mean , horrid man !
and no one but I understand or will understand it , and I can not explain it .
they say he be a religious , moral , honest , and wise man , but they do not see what I have see .
they do not know how for eight year he have be smother my life , smother everything that be alive in I , that he never once think I be a live woman , in need of love .
they do not know how at every step he hurt I and remain self - satisfied .
have I not try , try with all my might , to find a purpose in my life ?
have I not try to love he , try to love my son when I could no long love my husband ?
but the time come when I understand that I could no long deceive myself that I be alive , and can not be blame because God make I so , that I want to love and to live .
and now ?
if he kill I – if he have kill he , – I would have bear anything , I would have forgive anything ! but no !
' how be it I do not guess what he would do ?
he will do what be consistent with his low nature .
he will be in the right , but as for I who be already disgrace he will disgrace I more and more ! ' -"You can yourself foresee what await you and your son!"- ' – she repeat the word of the letter . ' that be a threat that he will take my son from I , and probably their stupid law will permit it .
but do not I know why he say it ? he do not believe in my love for my son or he despise it .
he always do snigger at it !
he despise that feeling of mine , but he know that I will not give up my son , that I can not give he up , that without my son I can not live even with the man I love , – that if I forsook my son I should act like a horrid disreputable woman . he know that and know that I have not the power to do it . '
' -"our life must go on as heretofore"- ' – she recall another sentence of the letter .
' that life be painful before , lately it have be dreadful . what will it be now ?
and he know it all ; know that I can not repent of breathing , of love , know that nothing but lie and deception can come of this arrangement , but he want to continue to torture I .
I know he ; I know that he swim and delight in falsehood as a fish do in water . but no !
I will not give he that pleasure , come what will . I will break this web of lie in which he wish to entangle I .
anything be well than lie and deception ! '
' but how ?
oh God ! oh God !
be a woman ever as unhappy as I be ? ...
no , I shall break it off , break it off ! ' she exclaim , jump up and force back her tear .
and she go to the table to write he another note , though she know in the depth of her soul that she would not have the strength to break anything off , nor to escape from her former position , however false and dishonest it might be .
she sit down at her writing - table , but instead of write she fold her arm on the table and put her head on they , and begin to cry , sob with her whole bosom heaving , as a child cry .
she weep because the hope of clear up and define her position be destroy for ever .
she know beforehand that everything would remain as it be and would be even far bad than before .
she feel that , insignificant as it have appear that morning , the position she hold in Society be dear to she , and that she would not have the strength to change it for the degraded position of a woman who have forsake husband and child and form a union with her lover ; that , however much she try , she could not become strong than herself .
she would never be able to feel the freedom of love , but would always be a guilty woman continually threaten with exposure , deceive her husband for the sake of a shameful union with a man who be a stranger and independent of she , and with whom she could not live a united life .
she know that it would be so , and yet it be so terrible that she could not even imagine how it would end .
and she cry , without restraint , like a punish child .
the approach step of the footman recall she to herself , and hide her face from he she pretend to be write .
' the messenger be ask for the answer , ' he say .
' the answer ?
yes , let he wait : I will ring , ' say Anna .
' what can I write ? ' she think . ' what can I decide alone ?
what do I know ?
what do I want ?
that I be in love ? '
and she feel again a schism in her soul , and again be frightened by the feeling ; so she seize the first pretext for action that occur to she to divert her thought from herself .
' I must see Alexis , ' as she call Vronsky in her thought . ' he alone can tell I what to do .
I shall go to Betsy 's and perhaps shall meet he there , ' quite forget that the evening before when she have tell he she be not go to the Princess Tverskaya 's , he have reply that in that case he would not go either .
she write to her husband : ' I have receive your letter . – a. , ' ring , and give the note to the footman .
' we be not go , ' she say to Annushka , who have just come in .
' not go at all ? '
' no , but do not unpack till to - morrow , and let the carriage wait .
I be go to see the Princess . '
' what dress shall I put out ? '
the CROQUET MATCH to which the Princess Tverskaya have invite Anna be to be play by two lady and their admirer .
the two lady be the chief representative of a choice new Petersburg circle call , in imitation of an imitation of something , Les sept merveilles du monde .
these lady belong to a circle which , though high , be entirely hostile to the set Anna frequent .
Old Stremov – one of Petersburg 's influential man , and Lisa Merkalova 's adorer – be also officially hostile to Karenin .
these consideration have make Anna reluctant to come , and it be to her refusal that the hint in Princess Tverskaya 's note have refer .
but now the hope of see Vronsky have bring Anna .
she arrive at the Princess Tverskaya 's house before the other visitor .
just as she arrive Vronsky 's footman , who with his well - brush whisker look like a Gentleman of the Bedchamber , also come up .
he stop at the door , take off his cap , and let she pass .
Anna see he , and only then remember that the evening before Vronsky have say that he be not come .
probably he have send a note to say so .
as she be take off her outdoor thing in the hall she hear the footman – who even pronounce his r 's like a Gentleman of the Bedchamber – say : ' from the Count to the Princess , ' as he deliver the note .
she feel inclined to ask where his master be ; she want to go home and write to he to come to her house , or to go to he herself . but none of these thing could be do .
she hear in front of she the bell that announce her arrival , and the Princess Tverskaya 's footman be already stand half - turn toward she at an open door , wait for she to enter the inner room .
' the Princess be in the garden ; she will be inform in a minute .
will you not come into the garden ? ' say another footman in the next room .
the feeling of irresolution and indefiniteness be just the same as at home , or even bad , because she could do nothing ; she could not see Vronsky but have to stay there , in this company of stranger so out of sympathy with her present mood . but she wear a costume that she know suit she , she be not alone but surround by a ceremonious setting of idleness , and she feel easy than at home ; she have no need to think of what to do .
everything do itself .
when she meet Betsy come toward she in a white costume that strike Anna by its elegance , Anna smile at she as usual .
the Princess Tverskaya came accompany by Tushkevich and a young girl , a relation , who to the great delight of her provincial parent be spend the summer with the grand Princess .
there must have be something unusual about Anna 's look , for Betsy notice it at once .
' I have sleep badly , ' answer Anna , gaze at the footman , who she guess be bring Vronsky 's note .
' how glad I be that you have come ! ' say Betsy . ' I be tired , and be go to have a cup of tea before they arrive . will not you and Masha go and look at the croquet lawn where the grass be cut ? ' she say to Tushkevich . ' we can have a heart - to - heart talk over our tea . we will have a cosy chat , will not we ? ' she add in English , press the hand with which Anna hold her sunshade .
' yes , especially as I can not stay long . I must go to the old Countess Vrede – I promise to , age ago , ' say Anna , to whom falsehood – so alien to she by nature – have now become so simple and natural in Society that it even give her pleasure .
why she have say something she have not even think of a moment before she could not have explain .
her only reason for say it be that since Vronsky be not come she must secure her freedom and try to see he in some other way .
but why she have mention the old Lady - in - waiting Vrede , to whom , among many other people , she owe a visit , she could not have explain ; and yet as it happen she could have think of nothing well have she try to invent the most cunning mean of see Vronsky .
' no , I will not let you go on any account , ' say Betsy , fix her eye intently on Anna . ' I should be really hurt , if I be not so fond of you .
it be just as if you think my company might compromise you ! please bring we tea in the little drawing - room , ' she say to the footman , screw up her eye as she always do when speak to a footman .
she take the note from he and read it . ' Alexis have fail we , ' she say in French .
' he write that he can not come . ' she speak in a natural and matter - of - fact tone , as if it never enter her head that Vronsky have any other interest for Anna than as a croquet player .
Anna be aware that Betsy know everything , but when she hear her talk about Vronsky she always feel a momentary conviction that Betsy know nothing about it .
' ah ! ' say Anna , in an indifferent tone as if she care very little about it , and go on with a smile : ' how could your company compromise anyone ? ' this play with word , this concealment of a secret , have a great charm for Anna , as it have for all woman .
it be not the necessity for secrecy , not its purpose , but the process itself that be fascinating . ' I can not be more catholic than the Pope , ' she say .
' Stremov and Lisa Merkalova be the cream of the cream of Society ! they be receive everywhere , and I ' – she put special stress on that I – ' never be severe or intolerant : I simply have not the time . '
' no ! perhaps you do not want to meet Stremov ?
let he and Alexis Alexandrovich break lance at their Committee meeting ; that have nothing to do with we .
in Society he be the most amiable man I know , and a passionate croquet player .
you will see !
and in spite of his ridiculous position as Lisa 's old admirer , you should see how he carry it off .
he be very charming .
Sappho Stolz you do not know ?
she be quite a new type . '
while Betsy be say this Anna see by her bright intelligent look that she partly understand Anna 's position and be devise something .
they be in a small sitting - room .
' but I must write to Alexis ; ' and Betsy sit down at the table , write a few word , and put the paper in an envelope .
' I be write to ask he to come to dinner ; I have one lady too many .
see if I have make it press enough !
excuse I !
I must leave you for a minute ; please close the envelope and send it , ' she say from the doorway ; ' I have some order to give . '
without think for an instant Anna sit down at the table with Betsy 's note , and without read it add at the bottom : ' I must see you .
come to Vrede 's garden .
I shall be there at six . '
she close it , and Betsy return send it off in her presence .
over their tea , which be bring they in the cool little drawing - room , the two woman really have before the arrival of the visitor the cosy chat the Princess Tverskaya have promise Anna .
they pass in review all who be expect to come , and their conversation dwelt at some length on Lisa Merkalova .
' she be very nice and be always attractive to I , ' say Anna .
' you must love she : she dote on you .
yesterday she come to I at the race and be quite in despair that she have miss you .
she say that you be a real heroine for a novel , and that be she a man she would have commit a thousand folly for your sake .
Stremov tell she she be commit they as it be ! '
' yes , but do tell I ! I never can understand , ' say Anna after a pause , in a tone that clearly prove she be not put an idle question and that what she be ask about be more important to she than it ought to be ; ' do tell I what be her relation with Prince Kaluzhsky , whom they call Mishka ?
I have not often meet they ...
what be they ? '
Betsy look at she with smile eye .
' it be a new fashion , ' she reply .
' they have all adopt that fashion .
they have kick over the trace , but there be different way of do it . '
' yes , but what be her relation with Kaluzhsky ? '
Betsy burst into an unexpected , merry and uncontrollable peal of laughter , a thing she rarely do .
' you be encroach on the Princess Myagkaya 's domain !
that be a question an enfant terrible might put ! ' and Betsy evidently try to , but could not , control herself , and again burst out into the infectious kind of laughter peculiar to those who laugh seldom . ' you must ask they ! ' she utter , while tear of laughter choke her voice .
' it be all very well for you to laugh , ' say Anna , who could not help laugh too , ' but I never be able to understand it .
I can not understand the husband 's position . '
' the husband 's !
Lisa Merkalova 's husband carry her rug after she and be always at her service .
but what there be behind it all , no one really care to know .
do not you know that in good Society no one talk or even think about certain detail of the toilet ?
it be just the same in such case . '
' will you be at Rolandaki 's fate ? ' ask Anna in order to change the subject .
' I do not think so , ' answer Betsy , and while look at her friend she begin fill the little translucent cup with aromatic tea .
she move one of the cup toward Anna , get out a pachito , [ a straw - cover cigarette . ] place it in a silver holder , and light it .
' you see , ' she say , ' I be in a lucky position ! I understand you and I understand Lisa .
Lisa 's be one of those naive nature who , like child , be unable to understand the difference between right and wrong .
at least she do not understand it when she be very young .
and now she know that that role of not understand become she .
now perhaps she be purposely ingenuous , ' and Betsy smile pointedly . ' but still it become she .
you see a thing may be look at tragically and turn to a torment , or look at quite simply , and even gaily .
perhaps you be inclined to take thing too tragically . '
' how I wish I know other as I know myself ! ' say Anna , seriously and thoughtfully . ' be I bad than other or well ? bad , I think . ' ' enfant terrible ! enfant terrible . ' Betsy repeat . ' but here they come ! '
sound of FOOTSTEPS and a man 's voice , then that of a woman follow by laughter , reach they , and the expect visitor enter the room , Sappho Stolz and a young man , shine with a superabundance of health , know as Vaska .
it be evident that he flourish on underdone beef , truffle , and Burgundy .
Vaska bow to the lady , only glance at they for a second .
he come into the drawing - room behind Sappho and follow she across the room as if he be tie to she , with his glitter eye fix on she as if he be ready to eat she .
Sappho Stolz have fair hair and black eye .
she enter with a short , brisk step , in shoe with high french heel and shake hand with the lady with a firm grip like a man .
Anna have never meet this celebrity before , and be strike by her beauty , by the extravagant fashion of her costume , and by the boldness of her manner .
on her head the delicate golden hair ( her own and other ' ) be build up into such an erection that her head be as large as her shapely , well - develop and much - expose bust .
at each strenuous step as she advance , the shape of her knee and thigh be distinctly visible under her dress , and one involuntarily wonder just where , behind , under her heaped and sway bustle , the real , graceful little body end which be so expose at the top and so hidden at the back and below .
Betsy hasten to introduce she to Anna .
' just fancy ! we nearly run over two soldier , ' she begin at once , wink and smile as she throw back her train which she have jerk too much to one side .
' I be with Vaska ... oh , but you be not acquaint ! ' and she introduce the young man by his surname and burst into ring laughter at her mistake in speak of he as Vaska to a stranger .
Vaska again bow to Anna , but say nothing .
he turn to Sappho : ' you have lose the bet : we have arrive first .
pay up ! ' he say smile .
Sappho laugh still more merrily .
' surely not now ! ' she say .
' never mind , I will have it later . '
' all right ! all right !
oh yes ! ' she suddenly say , address her hostess . ' I be a nice one .
I quite forgot ...
I have bring you a visitor !
here he be . '
the unexpected young visitor Sappho have bring with she and forget be nevertheless so important a personage that , in spite of his youth , both lady rise to greet he .
he be Sappho 's new admirer , and follow at her heel just like Vaska .
then the Prince Kaluzhsky arrive , and Lisa Merkalova with Stremov .
Lisa Merkalova be a slight brunette with a lazy oriental type of face and beautiful ( everybody say unfathomable ) eye .
the character of her dark costume , as Anna at once notice and appreciate , be perfectly suited to her style of beauty .
just to the same extent as Sappho be compact and spruce Lisa be limp and pliant . but to Anna Lisa be by far the more attractive .
when Betsy have speak to Anna about she , she have say that Lisa be play the role of an ingenuous child ; but when Anna see she she know that this be untrue .
she be really ingenuous , and a perverted but a sweet and irresponsible woman .
it be true she have adopt the same tone as Sappho , and , as in Sappho 's case , two admirer follow she as if tie to she and devour she with their eye ; one a young and the other an old man ; but in she there be something superior to her surrounding , – she have the radiance of a real diamond among false stone .
this radiance shine out of her beautiful and really unfathomable eye .
the weary yet passionate look of those eye , with the dark circle beneath they , be strike in its perfect sincerity .
look into those eye every one feel as if they know she perfectly , and know she could not help love she . at the sight of Anna her whole face light up with a joyful smile . ' oh ! I be pleased to see you ! ' she say , walk up to Anna . ' yesterday at the race I be just try to get near you when you go away . I be so anxious to see you , yesterday especially . be it not dreadful ? ' and she give Anna a look that seem to reveal her whole soul .
' yes , I never think it would be so exciting , ' reply Anna , blushing .
the company rise to go into the garden .
' I will not go , ' say Lisa , smile and sit down beside Anna . ' you will not go either ? who want to play croquet ? '
' I like it , ' say Anna .
' tell I , how do you manage not to feel bored ?
it cheer I to look at you .
you be full of life , but I be bored . '
' you bored ?
why , yours be the gay set in Petersburg , ' say Anna .
' it may be that those who be not in our set be still more bored , but we – I at any rate – do not feel merry , but terribly , terribly bored . '
Sappho light a cigarette and go out into the garden with the two young man .
Betsy and Stremov stay at the tea - table .
' Bored ! ' say Betsy . ' Sappho say that they have a very jolly time at your house yesterday . '
' oh dear ! it be so dull ! ' say Lisa Merkalova .
' we go back to my place after the race .
always the same people , the very same !
always the same going on , the very same !
we spend the whole evening loll about on sofas .
what be there jolly about it ? do tell I how you manage not to get bored ? ' say she again to Anna .
' one have only to look at you to see that you be a woman who may be happy or unhappy , but who be not dull . teach I how you do it ! '
' I do not do anything , ' say Anna , blush at these insistent question .
' that be the good way , ' Stremov join in . Stremov be a man of about fifty , get grey , but still fresh looking , with a very plain though intelligent face full of character .
Lisa Merkalova be his wife 's niece and he spend all his spare time with she .
on meet Anna Karenina he , like a clever man of the world , be Karenin 's enemy in the service , try to be specially amiable to she , the wife of his foe . ' do not do anything ! ' he repeat with a smile .
' that be the good way . I have always tell you , ' he go on , turn to Lisa Merkalova , ' that if one wish not to be bore one must not expect to be bored , just as one must not be afraid of not fall asleep if one wish to avoid sleeplessness .
that be what Anna Arkadyevna say . '
' I should have be pleased to have say it , for it be not only wise , but true , ' say Anna , smile .
' no , but tell I why one can not fall asleep and can not help be bored ? '
' to fall asleep one must have work , and also to amuse oneself one must have work . '
' why should I work when no one want my work ?
and I can not and will not do it just for a pretence . '
' you be incorrigible , ' say Stremov without look at she , and again turn to Anna .
as he rarely meet Anna he could not say anything to she except triviality , but he say these triviality , about her return from the country to Petersburg and of how fond the Countess Lydia Ivanovna be of she , in a way that express his whole - hearted desire to be agreeable to she , and to show she his respect and even more .
Tushkevich come in to say that everybody be wait for the croquet player .
' no , please do not go ! ' beg Lisa Merkalova when she hear that Anna be leave .
Stremov join she in the entreaty .
' the contrast will be too great , ' he remark , ' if you go to see the old Countess Vrede after leave this company here .
besides , your visit will give she an opportunity to backbite , while here , on the contrary , you arouse the good feeling , quite opposed to backbite . '
Anna hesitate for a moment .
the flattering word of this clever man , the naive , childish sympathy which Lisa Merkalova express to she , all these familiar Society surrounding make she feel so tranquil , while what be lie in wait for she be so hard , that for a moment she doubt whether to remain and put off the dread moment of explanation .
but recall what await she when alone at home if she take no decision , and remember her action ( the recollection of which be terrible ) when she take hold of her hair with both hand , she take she leave and go away .
in spite of his apparently reckless EXISTENCE , VRONSKY be a man who hate disorder .
while quite young and still in the Cadet Corps he have experience the humiliation of a refusal when , having get into debt , he have try to borrow money , and since then he have never again allow himself to get into such a position .
to keep thing straight he be in the habit , some five or six time a year accord to circumstance , of seclude himself and clear up all his affair .
he call it have a clean up , or faire la lessive . [ do the washing . ]
the morning after the race he wake late , and without have a bath or shaving he put on a linen tunic and , spread out before he his money , his account , and his bill and letter , he set to work .
when Petritsky – who know that on such occasion Vronsky be often cross – on waking see his friend at his writing - table , he dress quietly and go out without disturb he .
every one , know intimately all the complexity of his own circumstance , involuntarily assume that these complexity and the difficulty of clear they up be peculiar to his own personal condition , and never think that other be surround by similar complexity .
and so thought Vronsky .
and not without some inward pride , nor without some justification , he reflect that any other man would long ago have got embroil and be oblige to act badly if place in a situation as difficult as his .
but Vronsky feel that it be necessary for he to investigate his affair just at that time in order to keep out of trouble .
he begin by first attack his money problem , as the easy to deal with .
having note down in his small handwriting on a piece of notepaper all he owe , he make up the account and find that it come to seventeen thousand and a few hundred rouble .
having strike out the odd hundred in order to have a round sum , count his money and look over his bank - book , he find that he have 1800 rouble , and there be no prospect of receive any more before the New Year .
after read over the list of his debt , he divide they into three class , each of which he note down separately .
under the first head come the debt that have to be pay at once or the money for which have at any rate to be keep ready so that they could be pay on demand without any delay .
these debt come to about 4000 rouble : 1500 for a horse and 2500 he have incur by stand security for his young comrade Venevsky , who in Vronsky 's presence have lose that sum to a card - sharp .
Vronsky have wish to pay at the time – he have the money with he – but Venevsky and Yashvin insist that they would pay , and would not permit Vronsky , who have not even be play , to do so .
this be all very fine , but Vronsky know that in this dirty business , his share in which be simply a verbal guarantee for Venevsky , he must have the 2500 rouble ready to throw to the sharp , and then have no more to do with he .
so that for the first part of his debt he must have 4000 rouble ready .
eight thousand rouble under the second heading be less important : they be owe chiefly for the use of the racecourse stable , to the oats and hay - dealer , to the Englishman , to the saddler and other .
in respect of these debt it be necessary to pay out 2000 rouble , in order to be quite secure .
the remain debt be owe to shop , hotel , and to his tailor , and there be no need to trouble about they .
so he need 6000 rouble for immediate use , and have only 1800 rouble ready money .
to a man with an income of 100,000 rouble a year , as everybody say Vronsky have , it would seem that such debt could not cause any difficulty , but the fact be that he be far from have the 100,000 rouble .
his father 's immense fortune , which alone bring in 200,000 a year , have not be divide between the brother .
when the eld brother , have a number of debt , marry the Princess Varya Chirkova , the daughter of a penniless Decembrist , Alexis give up to his brother the income from his father 's fortune , stipulate for only 25,000 rouble a year for himself .
at that time Alexis tell his brother that this would suffice for he till he marry , which in all probability he never would do .
and his brother , command one of the most expensive regiment , and newly married , could not refuse this gift .
their mother , who have her own private fortune , allow Alexis about 20,000 rouble a year in addition to the 25,000 agree upon , and Alexis spend it all .
latterly his mother , having quarrel with he about his connection with Anna and his departure from Moscow , have stop his allowance .
consequently Vronsky , who be in the habit of spend 45,000 rouble a year , have this year receive only 25,000 , find himself in difficulty .
he could not ask his mother to help he out of they .
her last letter in particular have irritate he , for it contain hint that she be willing to help he to gain success in Society and in the service , but not to help he live in a manner that scandalize all good Society .
his mother 's wish to bribe he offend he to the bottom of his soul and increase his coldness toward she .
yet he could not go back on his generous promise , although , dimly foresee some eventuality of his connection with Anna , he feel that it have be too lightly give and that , even though unmarried , he might need the whole hundred thousand a year .
but it be impossible to go back on it .
he have only to remember his brother 's wife and how that dear , excellent Varya at every opportunity show he that she remember his generosity and appreciate it , to realize the impossibility of withdraw what he have give .
it be as impossible as to beat a woman , to steal , or to tell a lie .
there be only one possible and necessary way out of it , on which Vronsky decide without a moment 's hesitation : to borrow ten thousand rouble from a money - lender , which he could easily do , to cut down his expense , and to sell his racehorse .
having decide on this , he at once write a note to Rolandaki , who have more than once offer to buy his horse .
then he send for the money - lender and the Englishman , and allot what money he have among the different bill .
having finish this business he write a cold and abrupt reply to his mother .
then take from his pocket - book three note from Anna he re - read they , burn they , and recall a conversation he have have with she the evening before , fall into a reverie .
VRONSKY be particularly fortunate in that he have a code of rule which clearly define what should and should not be do .
this code cover a very small circle of condition , but it be unquestionable , and Vronsky , never go beyond that circle , never for a moment hesitate to do what have to be do .
the code categorically determine that though the card - sharp must be pay , the tailor need not be ; that one may not lie to a man , but might to a woman ; that one must not deceive anyone , except a husband ; that one must not forgive an insult but may insult other , and so on .
these rule might be irrational and bad but they be absolute , and in comply with they Vronsky feel at ease and could carry his head high .
only quite lately , in reference to his relation to Anna , have he begin to feel that his code do not quite meet all circumstance , and that the future present doubt and difficulty for which he have no guide principle .
his present relation to she and her husband be clear and simple to he .
they be very clearly and exactly define in the code of rule by which he be guide .
she be a respectable woman who have give he her love , and he love she ; therefore she be for he a woman worthy of as much or even more respect than a legitimate wife .
he would have let his hand be cut off before he would have allow himself by word or hint to insult she , or fail to show she all the respect that a woman can possibly desire .
his relation toward Society be also clear .
every one might know or suspect , but no one must dare to speak about the matter , or he be prepared to silence the speaker and make he respect the non - existent honour of the woman he love .
his relation to her husband be simple of all .
from the moment that Anna give he her love he consider his own right to her indefeasible .
her husband be only a superfluous person and a hindrance .
no doubt he be in a pitiable position , but what be to be do ?
the only right the husband have be , weapon in hand , to demand satisfaction , and that Vronsky from the first be prepare to give he .
but latterly new inner relation have spring up between himself and she , which frighten he by their indefiniteness .
only yesterday she have tell he that she be pregnant , and he feel that this news and what she expect of he call for something that be not fully define by his code of rule .
he be take by surprise , and at the moment when she tell he of her condition his heart have suggest his proposal to she to leave her husband .
he have make this proposal , but now , think it over , he see clearly that it would be well to avoid that plan , and yet , while he tell himself so , he fear that this might be wrong .
' when I tell she to leave her husband , that mean that she should unite herself with I .
be I ready for that ?
how can I take she away now that I have no money ?
no doubt I could arrange that ... but how could I go away with she while I be in the army ?
having propose it , I must be ready to carry it out – that be to say I must find the money and leave the army . '
he ponder .
the question of whether to leave or not to leave the army lead he to another private matter – almost the chief , though the secret , interest of his life .
ambition be the old motive of his childhood and youth , one which he do not acknowledge even to himself , but which be so strong a passion that it now struggle against his love .
his first step in Society and in the service have be successful , but two year ago he have make a bad blunder .
wish to show his independence and to get promotion , he have refuse a post that be offer he , hope that this refusal would enhance his value , but it turn out that he have be too bold and he be pass over . having then perforce to assume the role of an independent character , he play it very adroitly and cleverly , as though he have no grudge against anyone , do not feel himself at all offend , and only wish to be leave in peace to enjoy himself .
in reality he have begin to feel dissatisfied about the time that he go to Moscow the year before .
he feel that the role of the independent man , who could have anything but want nothing , be begin to pall , and that many people be begin to think he could never do anything more than be an honest , good - natured fellow .
his intrigue with Anna Karenina , which have cause such a sensation and attract so much notice in Society , by invest he with fresh glamour have for a while quiet the worm of ambition that gnaw he , but a week ago that worm have reawaken with fresh vigour .
a playmate of his childhood , and his fellow - pupil at the Cadet Corps ; Serpukhovskoy , who belong to the same social circle , and who have finish the same year as himself and have be his rival in the classroom , at gymnastic , in mischief , and in ambitious dream , have just return from Central Asia , where he have gain two step in official rank and have win a distinction rarely award to so young a General .
as soon as he reach Petersburg people begin to talk about he as a rise star of the first magnitude : of the same age as Vronsky , and his messmate , Serpukhovskoy be already a General expect an appointment that might have an influence on State affair ; while Vronsky , though independent and brilliant and beloved by an enchanting woman , remain only a Cavalry Captain and be allow to be as independent as he please .
' of course I be not jealous and could not be jealous of Serpukhovskoy , but his promotion show I that if one bide one 's time the career of such a man as myself may be very quickly make .
three year ago he and I be in the same position .
if I retire I burn my boat .
by remain in the service I lose nothing .
she herself say that she do not want to change her position ; and I , have her love , can not envy Serpukhovskoy . '
and slowly twist his moustache he rise from the table and walk across the room . his eye shine with peculiar brightness and he feel that firm , calm , and joyful mood which always come when he have clear up the situation .
everything be clear and distinct , as after his former periodical stocktaking .
he shave , have a cold bath , dress , and go out .
' I have COME for you ; your washing have take a long time ! ' say Petritsky . ' well , be it do ? '
' yes , it be do , ' say Vronsky , smile with his eye and twirl the end of his moustache as carefully as if , after the order he have establish in his affair , any too vigorous or rapid movement might upset it .
' after it , you always look as if you have come out of a russian bath , ' say Petritsky , ' and I have come straight from Gritska ' ( the name by which they call their Commanding Officer ) . ' they be expect you . '
Vronsky look at his comrade without answer , think about something else .
' be that where the music be ? ' he say , listen to the familiar strain , now audible , of brass instrument play polkas and waltz . ' what be up ? '
' Serpukhovskoy have arrive . '
' ah ! I do not know , ' exclaim Vronsky .
his smile eye shine still more brightly .
having make up his mind that he be happy in his love , and having sacrifice his ambition to it , or at any rate assume that role , Vronsky could no long feel envious of Serpukhovskoy nor vex with he for not come straight to see he on reach the regiment .
Serpukhovskoy be a good friend and he be glad that he would see he .
' I be very glad . '
Demin the C.O. occupy a large country house , and the whole party be gather together on the roomy verandah .
in the ground , what first meet Vronsky 's eye be the soldier - singer in their white linen uniform , stand beside a cask of vodka , then the jolly , healthy figure of the C.O. surround by his officer . having come out on the top step of the verandah , he be gesticulate and above the noise of the band ( which be play a quadrille of Offenbach 's ) be loudly give order to some soldier who be stand somewhat apart .
a group of soldier , a sergeant - major and some other non - commissioned officer , come up to the verandah at the same time as Vronsky .
after return to the table , the Commander again come forward with a glass of champagne in his hand and announce a toast : ' to the health of our late comrade , the gallant General , Prince Serpukhovskoy !
Hurrah ! '
follow the Commander , champagne glass in hand , Serpukhovskoy come down smile .
' you be grow young every day , Bondarenko ! ' he remark to the ruddy - face , smart - look sergeant - major , serve for a second term , who stand just in front of he .
Vronsky have not see Serpukhovskoy for three year .
he have mature and have grow whisker , but still have just as good a figure , and be just as striking – not so much for his good look as for the delicacy and nobility of his face and bearing .
one change Vronsky notice in he be that quiet and permanent radiance which come upon the face of people who have succeed and feel assure that everybody recognize their success .
Vronsky know that kind of radiance , and notice it at once on Serpukhovskoy 's face .
as he be descend the step Serpukhovskoy notice Vronsky .
a smile of joy light up his face .
he jerk his head backwards and raise his glass , welcome Vronsky and show by this gesture that he must first go to the sergeant - major , who be already stretch himself and pucker his lip for a kiss .
' ah , here he be ! ' exclaim the Commander , ' and Yashvin tell I that you be in one of your dismal mood . '
Serpukhovskoy kiss the smart - look sergeant - major on his moist fresh lip and , wipe his mouth on his handkerchief , step up to Vronsky .
' well , I be glad ! ' he say , take he apart and press his hand .
' you look after he , ' shout the Commander to Yashvin , and go out to the soldier .
' why be you not at the race yesterday ?
I think I should see you there , ' ask Vronsky , examine Serpukhovskoy .
' I do come , but late .
excuse I ! ' he add , and turn to his adjutant . ' please give order to distribute this money equally among the man . '
he hurriedly take three one - hundred - rouble note out of his pocket - book and blush .
' vronsky , will you eat something , or have a drink ? ' say Yashvin . ' hey !
bring the Count something to eat ! here , drink this ! '
the carousing at the house of the C.O. continue long .
they drink a great deal .
Serpukhovskoy be lift and toss by the officer .
then the C.O. be toss .
then the C.O. dance with Petritsky in front of the singer .
after that , feel rather weak , he sit down on a bench in the yard and begin demonstrate to Yashvin Russia 's superiority to Prussia , especially in cavalry charge , and the carousal quiet down for a moment .
Serpukhovskoy go to the dressing - room to wash his hand , and find Vronsky there .
Vronsky have take off his coat and be wash his hairy red neck under the washstand tap , rub it and his head with his hand .
when he have finish his ablution Vronsky sit down beside Serpukhovskoy on a little sofa in the dressing - room and begin a conversation of great interest to both of they .
' I use to hear all about you from my wife , ' say Serpukhovskoy . ' I be glad you see a good deal of she . '
' she be friend with Varya , and they be the only woman in Petersburg whom it be a pleasure for I to meet , ' say Vronsky with a smile .
he smile because he foresaw the turn their conversation would take and be pleased .
' the only one ? ' ask Serpukhovskoy , smile .
' yes , and I use to hear about you , but not only from your wife , ' say Vronsky , check the hint by a serious look . ' I be very glad of your success but not at all surprised .
I expect even more . '
Serpukhovskoy smile .
Vronsky 's opinion of he evidently give he pleasure and he see no reason to hide it .
' I , on the contrary – I must frankly admit – expect less .
but I be pleased , very pleased ; I be ambitious , it be my weakness , and I acknowledge it . '
' perhaps you would not if you be not successful , ' say Vronsky .
' I do not think so , ' and Serpukhovskoy smile again . ' I do not mean to say I could not live without it , but it would be a bore .
of course I may be make a mistake , but I believe I have some capacity for the career I have adopt , and that in my hand power of any kind , if I ever possess it , will be use in a well way than in the hand of many whom I know , ' say he with the radiant consciousness of success . ' therefore the near I be to get it the more pleased I be . '
' it may be so for you , but not for every one .
I use to think the same , yet here I be live and find that it be not worth while live for that alone , ' say Vronsky .
' there you be !
there you be ! ' say Serpukhovskoy , laugh . ' I have begin by say that I use to hear about you , about your refusal ...
of course I approve of it .
but there be a way of do a thing , and I think that , though your action be good in itself , you do not do it in the right way . '
' what be do be do , and you know that I never go back on what I have do .
besides , I be quite all right . '
' all right for a time !
but you will not remain satisfied for long .
I should not say that to your brother .
he be a dear child , just like this host of our : hear he ! ' he add , listen to the cry of ' Hurrah ! '
' and he be happy , but that would not satisfy you . '
' I do not say that it would . '
' and that be not all : man like you be want . '
' by whom ? '
' by whom ?
by Society ; by Russia .
Russia be in need of man , need a Party – without it everything be go and will go to the dog . '
Bertenev 's Party , in opposition to the russian Communists ? '
' no ; ' say Serpukhovskoy , frown with vexation at be suspect of such nonsense . ' Tout ça est une blague . '
it always have exist and always will .
there be no Communists whatever .
but scheme people always have invent and always will invent some harmful and dangerous Party .
that be an old trick .
what be want be an influential Party of independent man like you and I . '
' but why – ' Vronsky name several influential man , ' why be not they independent man ? '
' only because they have not , or have not by birth , an independent position – have no name , be not bear as near the sun as we be .
they can be buy by money or by affability , and must invent a theory to keep their position .
and they bring forward some idea , some theory ( in which they themselves do not believe and which do harm ) merely as a means of procure government quarter and a salary .
Cela n'est pas plus fin que ça , if you happen to see their card .
maybe I be bad and more foolish than they , though I do not see why I be bad than they .
anyhow you and I have one great advantage : we can not be buy so easily .
and such man be more need than ever . '
Vronsky listen attentively , but it be not so much the meaning of Serpukhovskoy 's word that interest he as his outlook on these question , for Serpukhovskoy be already dream of a struggle with the power - that - be and already have sympathy and antipathy in that sphere , whereas Vronsky 's interest in the service be limit to his own squadron .
Vronsky realize , too , how powerful Serpukhovskoy might become by his undoubted capacity for reflection and comprehension , and by his intellect and gift of speech , so seldom meet with in the Society in which he live .
and , ashamed as he be of the fact , he feel jealous .
' all the same I lack the most necessary thing , ' he reply . ' I lack the wish for power .
I have it once but it be go . '
' pardon I , that be not true , ' say Serpukhovskoy with a smile .
' yes , it be , it be true ... at present to be quite frank , ' add Vronsky .
' yes , it be true at present – that be another matter , but the present will not last for ever . '
' perhaps , ' say Vronsky .
' you say " perhaps,"- ' continue Serpukhovskoy as if he have guess Vronsky 's thought ; ' but I say , certainly .
that be why I want to see you . you act rightly : I quite understand it .
but you must not persevere in it .
I only ask you to give I carte blanche .
I be not patronize you ...
though why should I not patronize you ?
you have so often patronize I !
I hope our friendship be above that sort of thing !
yes , ' he say with a smile tender as a woman 's , ' give I carte blanche , leave the regiment , and I will draw you on imperceptibly . '
' but try to understand that I do want nothing except that everything should remain as it be , ' say Vronsky .
Serpukhovskoy rise and say , as he stand before Vronsky ,
' you say , " that all should remain as it be " !
I know what you mean , but hear I !
we be both of the same age ; it may be that in number you have know more woman than I have , ' the smile of Serpukhovskoy 's face and his gesture show that Vronsky need have no fear , and that he would touch the tender spot gently and carefully . ' but I be married , and believe I , that " know only your wife , whom you love " – as somebody once say – " you can understand all woman well than if you know thousand . "- '
' we will come in a minute , ' Vronsky shout to an officer who look in , having be send by the C.O. to call they .
Vronsky be anxious now to hear the rest of what Serpukhovskoy have to say .
' here be my opinion .
woman be the chief stumbling - block in a man 's career .
it be difficult to love a woman and do anything else .
to achieve it and to love in comfort and unhampered , the only way be to marry !
how be I to put to you what I think ? ' and Serpukhovskoy , who be fond of simile , go on : ' wait a bit ! wait a bit ! ...
yes , if you have to carry a load and use your hand at the same time , it would be possible only if the load be strapped on your back : and that be marriage .
I find that out when I marry .
I suddenly have my hand free .
but if you drag that load without marriage , your hand be so full that you can do nothing else .
look at Mazankov , at Krupov !
they have ruin their career because of woman . '
' but what woman ! ' say Vronsky , recall the Frenchwoman and the actress with whom these man be entangle .
' so much the bad ! the more assure the position of the woman in the world , the bad it be !
that be not like merely drag a load with one 's hand , it be like wrench it from some one else . '
' you have never love , ' say Vronsky softly , with his eye look straight before he and with Anna in his thought .
' perhaps not !
but another point : woman be always more materialistic than man .
man make of love something enormous , but woman be always terre - à - terre . [ Matter - of - fact . ]
' come , come ! ' he say , turn to a footman who have enter .
but the footman have not come to call they , as Serpukhovskoy think .
he bring Vronsky a note .
' your man bring this from the Princess Tverskaya . '
Vronsky open the note and his face flush .
' my head have begin ache , ' he say . ' I shall go home . '
' well , then , good - bye !
do you give I carte blanche ? '
' we will talk it over another time . I will look you up in Petersburg . '
it be already past five , and in order not to be late and not to use his own horse , which be know to everybody , Vronsky take Yashvin 's hire carriage and tell the coachman to drive as fast as possible .
the old four - seat hire vehicle be very roomy ; he sit down in a corner , put his leg on the opposite seat , and begin to think .
a vague sense of the accomplished cleaning up of his affair , a vague memory of Serpukhovskoy 's friendship for he , and the flattering thought that the latter consider he a necessary man , and above all the anticipation of the come meeting , merge into one general feeling of joyful vitality .
this feeling be so strong that he could not help smile .
he put down his leg , throw one of they over the other , and place his arm across it feel its firm calf , where he have hurt it in the fall the day before , and then , throw himself back , sigh deeply several time .
' delightful ! o delightful ! ' he think .
he have often before be joyfully conscious of his body , but have never love himself , his own body , as he do now .
it give he pleasure to feel the slight pain in his strong leg , to be conscious of the muscle of his chest move as he breathe .
that clear , cool August day which make Anna feel so hopeless seem exhilarate and invigorate to he and refresh his face and neck , which be glow after their washing and rubbing .
the scent of brilliantine give off by his moustache seem peculiarly pleasant in the fresh air .
all that he see from the carriage window through the cold pure air in the pale light of the evening sky seem as fresh , bright and vigorous as he be himself . the roof of the house glitter in the evening sun ; the sharp outline of the fence and corner of building , the figure of people and vehicle they occasionally meet , the motionless verdure of the grass and tree , the field of potato with their clear - cut ridge , the slant shadow of the house and tree , the bush and even the potato ridge – it be all pleasant and like a landscape newly paint and varnish .
' get on , get on ! ' he shout to the coachman , thrust himself out of the window , and take a three - rouble note from his pocket he put it into the man 's hand as the latter turn round .
the coachman feel something in his hand , the whip crack , and the carriage roll quickly along the smooth macadamize high road .
' I want nothing , nothing but that happiness , ' he think , stare at the ivory knob of the bell between the front window of the carriage , his mind full of Anna as he have last see she . ' and the long it continue the more I love she !
and here be the garden of Vrede 's country house .
where be she ?
where ?
why ?
why have she give I an appointment here , in a letter from Betsy ? ' he think ; but there be no long any time for thinking .
before reach the avenue he order the coachman to stop , open the carriage door , jump out while the carriage be still move , and go up the avenue lead to the house .
there be no one in the avenue , but turn to the right he see she .
her face be veil , but his joyous glance take in that special manner of walk peculiar to she alone : the droop of her shoulder , the poise of her head ; and immediately a thrill pass like an electric current through his body , and with renew force he become conscious of himself from the elastic movement of his firm leg to the motion of his lung as he breathe , and of something tickle his lip .
on reach he she clasp his hand firmly .
' you be not angry that I tell you to come ?
it be absolutely necessary for I to see you , ' she say ; and at sight of the serious and severe expression of her mouth under her veil his mood change at once .
' I angry ?
but how do you get here ? '
' never mind ! ' she say , put her hand on his arm . ' come , I must speak to you . '
he feel that something have happen , and that this interview would not be a happy one .
in her presence he have no will of his own : without know the cause of her agitation he become infected by it .
' what be it ? what ? ' he ask , press her hand against his side with his elbow and try to read her face .
she take a few step in silence to gather courage , and then suddenly stop .
' I do not tell you last night , ' she begin , breathe quickly and heavily , ' that on my way back with Alexis Alexandrovich I tell he everything ... say I could not be his wife , and ... I tell he all . '
he listen , involuntarily lean forward with his whole body as if try so to ease her burden .
but as soon as she have speak he straighten himself and his face assume a proud and stern expression .
' yes , yes , that be well ! a thousand time well !
I understand how hard it must have be for you , ' he say , but she be not listen to his word – only try to read his thought from his face .
she could not guess that it express the first idea that have enter Vronsky 's mind : the thought of an inevitable duel ; therefore she explain that momentary look of severity in another way .
after read her husband 's letter she know in the depth of her heart that all would remain as it be , that she would not have the courage to disregard her position and give up her son in order to be unite with her lover .
the afternoon spend at the Princess Tverskaya 's house have confirm that thought .
yet this interview be still of extreme importance to she .
she hope that the meeting might bring about a change in her position and save she .
if at this news he would firmly , passionately , and without a moment 's hesitation say to she : ' give up everything and fly with I ! ' she would abandon her son and go with he .
but the news have not the effect on he that she have desire : he only look as if he have be offend by something .
' it be not at all hard for I – it all come about of itself , ' she say , irritably . ' and here ... ' she pull her husband 's note from under her glove .
' I understand , I understand , ' he interrupt , take the note but not read it , and try to soothe she . ' I only want one thing , I only ask for one thing : to destroy this situation in order to devote my life to your happiness . '
' why do you tell I this ? ' she say . ' do you think I could doubt it ?
if I doubt it ... '
' who be that come ? ' say Vronsky , point to two lady who be come toward they . ' they may know we ! ' and he move quickly in the direction of a sidewalk , draw she along with he .
' oh , I do not care ! ' she say .
her lip tremble and her eye seem to he to be look at he with strange malevolence from under the veil . ' as I be say , that be not the point !
I can not doubt that , but see what he write to I . read – ' she stop again .
again , as at the first moment when he hear the news of she having speak to her husband , Vronsky yield to the natural feeling produce by the thought of his relation to the injure husband .
now that he hold his letter he could not help imagine to himself the challenge that he would no doubt find wait for he that evening or next day , and the duel , when he would be stand with the same cold proud look as his face bear that moment , and having fire into the air would be await the shot from the injure husband .
and at that instant the thought of what Serpukhovskoy have just be say to he and of what have occur to he that morning ( that it be well not to bind himself ) flash through his mind , and he know that he could not pass on the thought to she .
after he have read the letter he look up at she , but his look be not firm .
she understand at once that he have already consider this by himself , know that whatever he might say he would not tell she all that he be think , and know that her last hope have be deceive .
this be not what she have expect .
' you see what a man he be ! ' she say in a tremble voice . ' he ... '
' forgive I , but I be glad of it ! ' Vronsky interrupt . ' for God 's sake hear I out ! ' he add , with an air of entreaty that she would let he explain his word . ' I be glad because I know that it be impossible , quite impossible for thing to remain as they be , as he imagine . '
' why impossible ? ' say Anna , force back her tear and clearly no long attach any importance to what he would say .
she feel that her fate be decide .
Vronsky want to say that after what he consider to be the inevitable duel it could not continue ; but he say something else .
' it can not continue .
I hope that you will now leave he .
I hope ... ' he become confused and blush ' that you will allow I to arrange and to think out a life for ourselves . to - morrow ... '
he begin , but she do not let he finish .
' and my son ? ' she exclaim . ' you see what he write ? I must leave he , and I can not do that and do not want to . '
' but for heaven 's sake , which be well ?
to leave your son , or to continue in this degrading situation ? '
' degrade for whom ? '
' for everybody , and especially for you . '
' you call it degrading ! do not call it that ; such word have no meaning for I , ' she reply tremulously .
she do not wish he to tell untruth now .
she have only his love leave , and she want to love he . ' try to understand that since I love you everything have change for I .
there be only one single thing in the world for I : your love !
if I have it , I feel so high and firm that nothing can be degrade for I .
I be proud of my position because ... proud of ... proud ... ' she could not say what she be proud of .
tear of shame and despair choke she . she stop and burst into sob .
he also feel something rise in his throat , and for the first time in his life he feel ready to cry .
he could not explain what it be that have so move he ; he be sorry for she and feel that he could not help she , because he know that he be the cause of her trouble , that he have do wrong .
' would divorce be impossible ? ' he ask weakly .
she silently shake her head . ' would it not be possible to take your son away with you and go away all the same ? '
' yes , but all that depend on he .
now I go back to he , ' she say dryly .
her foreboding that everything would remain as it be have not deceive she .
' on Tuesday I shall go back to Petersburg and everything will be decide . '
' yes , ' she say , ' but do not let we talk about it . '
Anna 's carriage , which she have send away and order to return to the gate of the Vrede Garden , drive up .
Anna take leave of Vronsky and go home .
ON MONDAY the usual meeting of the committee of the Second of July take place .
Karenin enter the Council room , greet the member and the president as usual , and take his seat , his hand lie ready on the paper before he .
among these paper be the statistic that he need and a draft of the statement he be go to make .
but he do not really require the figure .
he remember they all and do not even consider it necessary to go over in his mind what he be go to say .
he know that when the time come , and he see his opponent before he vainly try to look indifferent , his speech would naturally be far more fluent and well than if he prepare it beforehand .
he feel that the content of his speech would be so important that every word would be significant .
yet as he listen to the general report his face wear a most innocent and artless look .
look at his white hand with the thick vein and the delicate long finger toy with the two edge of a white sheet of paper before he , and at his head wearily bent to one side , no one would have expect that word would flow from his lip which would raise a terrible storm and make the member shout each other down , force the president to call they to order .
when the report have be hear , Karenin in his quiet thin voice inform the meeting that he wish to bring to their notice some consideration of his own on the question of the settlement of the native race , and the attention of the meeting turn to he .
Karenin clear his throat , and , as be his will not when make a speech , without look at his opponent he fix his eye on the first man opposite he – a quiet little old man who never have any view in connection with the Special Committee – and begin to explain his consideration .
when he come to the Fundamental and Organic Law his opponent jump up and begin to raise objection .
Stremov ( who be also on the Special Committee ) , sting to the quick , begin justify himself , and the meeting become quite a stormy one . but Karenin triumph and his motion be carry ; three new Special Committees be form , and the next day nothing be talk about in a certain Petersburg set but that meeting .
Karenin 's success be even great than he have expect .
when he wake on the Tuesday morning he recall with pleasure his victory of the previous day , and could not help smile , even while wish to appear indifferent , when the secretary , with a desire to flatter he , report the rumour that have reach he concern what have happen at the meeting .
busy with the secretary , Karenin quite forget that it be Tuesday , the day fix for Anna 's return , and be surprised and unpleasantly startled when the footman come in to inform he of her arrival .
Anna return to Petersburg early in the morning , and as she have wire that the carriage should be send for she he might have expect she .
but he do not come out to meet she when she arrive .
she be tell that he have not yet come out of his study , where he be busy with his secretary .
she send word to her husband that she have arrive and go to her boudoir , where she set to work sort her thing , expect that he would come in to see she .
but an hour pass and he do not come .
she go down into the dining - room on a plea of give order and purposely speak in a loud voice , think that he would come ; but although she hear he go out of the study door to take leave of the secretary , he do not come to she .
she know that accord to his habit he would soon go away to his work and she wish to see he first .
she pass through the ballroom to his study and resolutely go in .
when she enter he be sit in his official uniform evidently ready to start , with his elbow on a little table , look wearily in front of he .
she see he before he see she and know that he be think about she .
when he see she he be about to rise , but change his mind as his face flush – a thing Anna have never see it do before . however , he quickly rise and come toward she , look not at her eye but at her forehead and hair .
he come up , take her hand , and ask she to sit down .
' I be very glad you have come , ' he say , sit down beside she . he evidently wish to say something , but falter .
several time he try to speak , but stop .
although while prepare for this interview she have be teach herself to despise and blame he , she do not know what to say , and pity he .
there be silence for some time . ' be Serezha well ? ' he ask ; and without wait for a reply he add , ' I be not dine at home to - day and must be go at once . '
' I mean to go away to Moscow , ' she say .
' oh no , you be quite right to come , ' he reply , and again become silent .
see that he have not the strength to begin , she begin for he .
' Alexis Alexandrovich ! ' she say , study his face and without drop her eye under his gaze fix on her hair , ' I be a guilty woman and a bad one , but I be what I be before , as I then tell you . I have come to tell you now I can not make any change . '
' I be not question you about it , ' he reply suddenly in a firm tone and look with hatred straight into her eye . ' I have expect it . '
under the influence of anger he have evidently regain perfect self - possession . ' but I repeat again what I then tell you and subsequently write , ' he go on in a shrill thin voice , ' I again repeat that I will not know it , I ignore it as long as it be not know to the rest of the world , as long as my name be not dishonoured .
therefore I warn you that our relation must remain what they have be , and that if you let yourself be compromise I shall be oblige to take measure to safeguard my honour . '
' but our relation can not be what they be before , ' Anna begin in a timid voice , look at he with frightened eye .
when she see his quiet gesture , hear his shrill , childish , and sarcastic voice , her repulsion toward he destroy the pity she have feel for he , and she now experience nothing but fear and anxiety to clear up the situation at any cost .
' I can not be your wife , since I ... ' she begin .
he laugh in a cruel , cold manner .
' I suppose the kind of life you have choose have affect your principle .
I respect or despise both so much – I respect your past and despise your present that the interpretation you give to my word be far from my thought ! '
Anna sigh and hang her head .
' I can not understand , however , that with your independent mind , ' he go on , getting heat , ' inform your husband of your infidelity and appear to see nothing unseemly in it , you should consider it unseemly to continue to fulfil a wife 's duty to your husband ! '
' Alexis Alexandrovich , what do you want of I ? '
' what I want , be not to meet that person here , and for you to behave in such a way that neither Society nor the servant shall be able to accuse you , – for you not to see that man .
I think that be not much to ask !
and in return you will enjoy all the advantage of a wife without fulfil her duty .
that be all I have to say ! now I must be go ...
and I sha not be back to dinner . '
he rise and go toward the door .
Anna too rise .
he stop and let she pass first .
the night LEVIN have spend ON the HAYCOCK have not pass without leave its mark : he become disgusted with the agricultural pursuit on which he be engage and lose all interest in they .
in spite of the splendid harvest he have never , or think he have never , encounter so many failure , or so much hostility from the peasant , as that year ; and the cause of those failure and that hostility be now quite plain to he .
the delight he have feel in the labour itself , occasion by his having draw near to the peasant , his jealousy of they , his envy of their life , his desire to adopt that kind of life ( which have not be a mere desire that night but a real intention , the detail of which he have consider ) , all these thing together have so change his outlook on the working of his estate that he could no long feel his former interest in the work , or help notice the unpleasant relation to the labourer on which it be all base .
herd of cattle of an improved breed like Pava , the till land plough with good plough , the nine field surround with willow , the hundred of acre of deeply manure land , the seed drill and all such thing , be splendid if they could be work by himself alone or with the help of friend and people in sympathy with he .
but now he clearly see ( the book on agriculture which he be write , in which the labourer be the chief factor in farming , help much in this direction ) that the agricultural work he be carry on be found on a bitter and obstinate struggle between himself and his labourer , in which on the one side – his – there be a continual and strenuous attempt to bring everything into accord with what be consider the good model , while on the other side there be the natural order of thing .
and he see that in his struggle , in spite of extreme effort on his part , and without any effort or even intention on the part of other , the only result achieve be that neither side be the winner , and that fine tool and splendid cattle and soil be quite uselessly damage .
but the chief point be that not only be the energy expend on the work waste , but he could not help feel now , when he see the meaning of his pursuit lay bare before he , that the aim of his effort be a most unworthy one .
what be the essential cause of that hostility ?
he struggle to get every penny he could , and have to do so or he would not have be able to pay his labourer their wage , and they struggle to be allow to work quietly , pleasantly , and just as they be use to work .
it be to his interest that every labourer should get through as much work as possible and at the same time give his mind to it , not injure the winnowing machine , the horse - rake , or the threshing machine , but work intelligently .
the labourer wish to work in the pleasantest way possible , with interval of rest , and especially to think unconcernedly about other thing without have to reason .
during that summer Levin notice this continually .
he give order to mow the clover for hay , choose the inferior field overgrown with grass and hemlock and not fit for seed ; and they cut down all the good seed clover , defend themselves by say that the foreman order they to do it , and comfort he with the assurance that he would get splendid hay ; while he know that they have do it simply because that clover be easiest to mow . he send out the horse - rake to turn the hay and it got break while toss the first few row , because the peasant find it dull to sit in the seat under the rotate wing , and Levin be tell : ' do not worry , sir !
the woman will toss it all in no time ! ' the english plough turn out useless , because it never enter the peasant 's head to lower the upturned ploughshare , and as he force it through at the turning he spoil the ground and strain the horse , and Levin be tell not to worry !
the horse be allow to stray into the wheat - field because not one of the peasant want to be watchman , and in spite of its having be forbid the labourer take turn to watch the horse at night ; so Vanka ; who have be at work all day , fall asleep , and confess his guilt , say , ' I be in your hand , sir ! ' three of the good calf have be overfe by be turn into the meadow where the clover have be cut , without any water to drink ; and the peasant would on no account admit that the clover have injure they .
to comfort Levin he be tell that his neighbour have lose a hundred head of cattle in three day . all this happen not because anyone wish to harm Levin or his farming ; on the contrary he well know that they like he and consider he a homely gentleman – high praise from a peasant .
it be do simply because the labourer wish to work merrily and without care , while his interest be not only foreign and incomprehensible to they but flatly opposed to their own just interest . Levin have long feel dissatisfied with his relation to the work on his estate .
he have see that the boat be leak but have not find or look for the leak , and perhaps have purposely deceive himself , for have he be disillusion in that work , he would have have nothing leave . but now he could deceive himself no long .
his agricultural pursuit have not only cease to interest he but have become repulsive , and he could no long give his mind to they . add to this there be Kitty Shcherbatskaya not more than twenty mile away , and he want to meet she , yet could not .
when he call on Dolly , she have ask he to come again and come with the object of once more propose to her sister , let he feel that her sister would now accept he . Levin himself having see Kitty Shcherbatskaya know that he have not cease to love she , yet he could not go to the Oblonskys ' house while she be there .
that he have propose and she have refuse he have put an impossible barrier between they . ' I can not ask she to be my wife just because she can not be the wife of the man she want , ' he say to himself , and this think render he cold and hostile toward she .
' I shall not have the strength to speak to she without reproach or to look at she without ill will , and she will only hate I all the more – as it be only right she should .
besides , how can I go there now after what Darya Alexandrovna tell I ? can I help betray what she tell I ?
and I should come magnanimously to forgive she , to show mercy to she ! I – stand before she in the role of one who forgive she and honour she with his love !
why do Darya Alexandrovna tell I this ? I might have meet she accidentally and then all would have come naturally , but now it be impossible ! '
dolly send to he to ask for a side - saddle for Kitty .
' I have be tell , ' she write , ' that you have a side - saddle . I hope you will bring it yourself . '
that be more than he could stand .
' how can an intelligent woman with any delicacy so humiliate a sister ? '
he write ten note and tear they all up , send the saddle at last without any reply .
to say that he would come be impossible , because he could not come ; to say that something prevent he from come , or that he be leave home , be still bad .
he send the saddle without an answer , conscious of do something shameful ; and next day , put the disagreeable management of the estate into the hand of the steward , he go away to a distant district to visit his friend Sviyazhsky , who have splendid shooting and have long be ask he to come and stay with he .
the snipe marsh in the surovsky district have for a long time appear tempt to Levin , but he have put off his visit because of his farm - work .
but now he be glad to go away from the proximity of Kitty and from his farm , and especially to go shoot , an occupation which serve he as the good solace in all his trouble .
there be no railway or stage - coach to the surovsky district , and Levin go in his own taranta .
half - way he stop to feed his horse at a well - to - do peasant 's house .
the bald - headed , fresh - faced old man , with a red beard which be grow grey round the cheek , open the gate and press close to the post to let the three - horse vehicle enter .
after show the coachman to a place in a lean - to , in a large , clean , tidy , newly - construct yard where stand some charred wooden plough , the old man invite Levin to enter the house .
a cleanly - dress young woman with goloshes on her stockingless foot be wash the floor in the passage .
the dog that follow Levin frighten she , but when she be tell that it would not hurt she she at once begin to laugh at her own alarm .
after point to the door with her bare arm she again stoop , hide her handsome face , and go on scrub .
' want a samovar ? ' she ask .
' yes , please . '
the room Levin enter be a large one with a tiled stove and a partition .
under the shelf with the icon stand a table decorate with a paint pattern , a bench , and two chair .
by the door stand a little cupboard with crockery .
the shutter be close and there be not many fly in the room , which be so clean that Levin take care to keep Laska ( who have be bathe in the puddle on the way ) from trample on the floor , tell she to lie down in a corner by the door .
having look round the room , he go out into the back - yard .
the good - look woman in goloshes , with two empty pail swinge from a wooden yoke , run down before he to fetch water from the well .
' look alive ! ' the old man call merrily after she , and approach Levin . ' be it to Nicholas Ivanich Sviyazhsky you be go , sir ?
he too stop at our place , ' he begin garrulously , lean on the banister of the porch .
in the midst of his conversation about his acquaintanceship with Sviyazhsky the gate creak again , and the labourer return from the field come into the yard with their plough and harrow .
the horse harness to the plough and harrow be big and well - fed .
the labourer evidently belong to the household . two young fellow wear print shirt and peak cap , two other be hire man and wear homespun shirt ; one of these be old and the other young .
the old master of the house leave the porch and go to unharness the horse .
' what have they be plough ? ' ask Levin .
' between the potato . we too rent a little land .
do not let the gelding out , Fedot , lead he to the trough . we will harness another . '
' I say , father ! have those ploughshare I order be bring ? ' ask a tall , robust young fellow , evidently the old man 's son .
' there in the passage , ' answer the old man , wind the rein into a ring and throw they on the ground . ' fix they on before we finish dinner . '
the good - look woman return , her shoulder press down by the weight of the full pail , and go into the house .
other woman , young and handsome , middle - age , old and plain , some with child , other without , appear from somewhere .
the chimney of the samovar begin to hum . the labourer and the family , having attend to the horse , go in to dinner .
Levin take his provision out of the taranta and invite the old man to have tea with he .
' why , I do not know ! we have have tea once to - day , ' say he , evidently pleased to accept the invitation . ' well , just for company ! '
over their tea Levin hear the whole history of the old man 's farm .
ten year previously he have rent about four hundred acre from the landowner , and the year before he have buy they outright and rent another nine hundred from a neighbouring proprietor .
a small part of the land – the bad – he let , and with the aid of his family and two hire man cultivate about a hundred and twenty acre .
the old man complain that his affair be in a bad way .
but Levin know that he only do so for propriety 's sake and that in reality his farm be flourish .
have his affair be in a bad way he would not have buy land at thirty - five rouble an acre , would not have marry three of his son and a nephew , and would not have twice rebuild his homestead after fire , nor rebuild it well each time .
in spite of the old peasant 's grumble one could see that he be justly proud of his property , of his son , his nephew , his daughter - in - law , his horse , his cow , and especially of the fact that his whole household and farm hold together .
from their conversation Levin gather that he be not against new method either .
he have plant many potato which have already flower and be form fruit , as Levin have notice when pass the field on the way , while Levin 's own potato be just begin to flower .
he plough the land for the potato with an English plough , which he have borrow from a landowner .
he also sow wheat .
Levin be strike especially by one little detail . the old peasant use the thinning of the rye as fodder for the horse .
many a time when Levin have see this valuable food waste he have want to have it gather up , but have find this impossible .
on this peasant 's field this be be do , and he could not find word enough to praise this fodder .
' what be there for the young woman to do ?
they carry the heap out on to the road and a cart come and fetch they . '
' there now ! we landlord do not get on well because of the labourer , ' say Levin , hand he a tumbler of tea .
' thank you , ' say the old man as he take the tea , but he refuse sugar , point to a bit he still have leave . ' how can one rely on work with hire labourer ? ' he say , ' it be ruination !
take Sviyazhsky now .
we know what sort of soil his be , black as poppy - seed , but he can not boast of his harvest either .
it be want of attention . '
' and yet you too use hire labour on your farm ? '
' Ours be peasant 's business ; we look after everything ourselves .
if a labourer be no good , let he go !
we can manage for ourselves . '
' Father , Finnigan want some tar fetch , ' say the woman with the golosh , come in .
' that be how it be , sir , ' say the old man , rise ; and after cross himself several time he thank Levin and go out .
when Levin go into the back room to call his coachman he find the whole peasant family at dinner .
the woman serve stand .
the vigorous young son with his mouth full of buckwheat porridge be say something funny , and everybody laugh heartily – the woman with the goloshes laugh more merrily than anyone as she refill the bowl with cabbage soup .
the handsome face of this woman with the goloshes might very well have have something to do with the impression of welfare that this peasant household produce on Levin ; that impression be anyhow so strong that he never lose it .
and all the rest of the way to Sviyazhsky 's he every now and then recall that household , as if the impression it have leave on he demand special attention .
sviyazhsky be marshal of the nobility in his district .
he be five year old than Levin and have long be marry .
his young sister - in - law , whom Levin think very pleasant , live with they .
he know that both Sviyazhsky and his wife want to see she marry to he , Levin .
he know this as certainly as all so - call eligible young man know these thing , though he could never have say so to anyone ; and he also know that although he want to marry , and although this girl , to all appearance very fascinating , ought to make a splendid wife , he could as soon fly as marry she , even have he not be in love with Kitty .
and this knowledge spoil the pleasure which he hope his visit to Sviyazhsky would give he .
Levin have think of this when he receive Sviyazhsky 's invitation , but in spite of it he make up his mind that this idea of Sviyazhsky 's intention be only an unfounded conjecture of his and that he would go .
besides , at the bottom of his heart he want to put himself to the test and again to estimate his feeling for the girl .
Sviyazhsky 's home life be extremely pleasant , and Sviyazhsky himself be the good type of social worker that Levin have ever know , and Levin always find he very interesting .
Sviyazhsky be one of those people – they invariably amaze Levin – whose judgment be very logical though never original and be keep quite apart from their conduct , while their manner of life be very definite and stable , its tendency be quite independent of their judgment , and even clash with it .
Sviyazhsky be an extreme liberal .
he despise the gentry and consider the majority of nobleman to be secretly in favour of serfdom , and only prevent by cowardice from express their view .
he consider Russia to be a doomed country like Turkey , and the russian government so bad that he do not think it worth while seriously to criticize its action ; yet he have an official position , be a model Marshal of the Nobility , and when he travel always wear a cockade and a red band to his cap .
he imagine that to live as a human being be possible only in foreign country , where he go to stay at every opportunity ; yet he carry on very complicated and perfect agricultural pursuit in Russia and carefully follow and know what be be do there .
he consider the russian peasant to be one degree high than the ape in development , yet at district election no one shake hand with the peasant and listen to their opinion more willingly than he .
he believe in neither God nor Devil , yet he be much concerned by the question of improve the condition of the clergy and limit parish , and be at the same time particularly active in see that the church should be retain in his village .
on the woman 's question he side with the extreme advocate of woman 's freedom and especially the right to work ; yet he live with his wife in such a way that it give everybody pleasure to see the friendly relationship in which they pass their childless life , and have so arrange that his wife do nothing and could do nothing except share her husband 's effort to spend their time as pleasantly and merrily as possible .
have Levin not possess the faculty of give the good interpretation to people 's character , Sviyazhsky 's character would have present no difficulty or problem to he ; he would only have call he a fool or a good - for - nothing , and everything would have be clear .
but he could not call he a fool because Sviyazhsky be not only very intelligent but also a very well - educate man , who carry his education with extreme modesty .
there be no subject with which he be not acquaint , but he only exhibit his knowledge when force to do so .
still less could Levin call he a good - for - nothing because Sviyazhsky be certainly an honest , kind - hearted , and clever man , always joyfully and actively engage on work highly prize by all around , and certainly a man who could never consciously do anything bad .
Levin try but could not understand he , and regard he and his life as animate riddle .
the Sviyazhskys be friendly with Levin , and therefore he allow himself to sound Sviyazhsky and try to get to the very foundation of his philosophy of life , but it be all in vain .
each time that Levin try to penetrate deep than the reception room of the other 's mind , which be always open to anybody , he notice Sviyazhsky seem a little confused . a just perceptible look of fear appear on his face , as if he be afraid that he would be understand by Levin , whom he meet with good - natured , jocose resistance .
now , after his disillusion with the work on his estate , Levin be especially pleased to stay a while with Sviyazhsky .
not to mention the fact that the sight of the happy dove in their well - order nest , so content with themselves and everybody else , have a cheer effect on he , he now want , dissatisfy with life as he be , to get at the secret which give Sviyazhsky such clearness , definiteness , and cheerfulness .
Levin also know that he would meet neighbouring landowner at the Sviyazhskys ' , and it would be very interesting to talk and hear about farming , the harvest , the hire of labour , and all those question which , though consider very low , seem to he most important .
' these matter might not have be so important in the time of serfdom and may be unimportant in England .
in these case the condition be or be settle , but with we everything have only just be change , and be only begin to settle down . the question of how thing will settle down be the only important question in the whole of Russia , ' think Levin .
the shooting do not prove as good as he have expect .
the marsh have dry up and there be hardly any snipe .
he go about all day and only bring back three , but on the other hand he bring back , as he always do after a day 's shooting , a splendid appetite , good spirit , and the stimulate mental condition which in his case always accompany physical exertion .
and when out shooting , while he do not seem to be think at all , he again and again think about the old peasant and his family , and feel as if the impression make on he call not only for his attention , but for the solution of some problem relate thereto .
in the evening at tea a very interesting conversation spring up , just as Levin have expect , in the company of two landlord who have come about some guardianship business .
Levin sit beside the hostess at the tea table , and be oblige to converse with she and her sister , who be sit opposite he .
the hostess be a short , fair , round - faced woman , beam with smile and dimple .
Levin try to find out through she the answer to the riddle , so important to he , present by her husband ; but he have not full freedom of thought because he feel painfully uncomfortable .
this painful discomfort be due to the fact that her sister sit opposite to he in a dress that seem to he to have be put on especially for his benefit , with a particularly low , square - cut décolletage show her white bosom . though her bosom be so white , or perhaps because it be so white , this square - cut deprive Levin of his freedom of thought .
he imagine , probably quite mistakenly , that the bodice be cut like that on his account ; he feel that he have no right to look at it and try not to do so , but feel guilty because it be cut so .
Levin feel as if he be deceive some one , as if he ought to offer some explanation which be impossible , and therefore he keep blush and be restless and uncomfortable .
his discomfort communicate itself to the pretty sister , but the hostess do not seem to notice anything and purposely draw her sister into the conversation .
' you say , ' the hostess continue , ' that my husband can not feel an interest in anything russian ?
on the contrary , though he be happy abroad , he be never so happy there as here .
he feel in his own sphere .
he be so busy , and he have a gift for take an interest in everything .
oh ! you have not be to see our school ! '
' I see it ...
it be a little ivy - cover house ? '
' yes , that be Nastya 's business , ' she say , point to her sister .
' you yourself teach ? ' ask Levin , try to look beyond the bodice , but conscious that if he look in her direction he must see it .
' yes , I have be and be still teach , but we have a splendid master .
and we have introduce gymnastic . '
no more tea , ' say Levin , and unable to continue the conversation , though he know he be behave rudely , he get up blushing . ' I hear a very interesting conversation there , ' he add , and go to the other end of the table where his host and the two landlord be sit .
Sviyazhsky sit sideways , lean his elbow on the table and turn his cup round with one hand , while with the other he gather his beard together , lift it to his nose as if smell it , and let it go again .
he look with his glitter black eye straight at an excited landowner , with a grey moustache , whose word evidently amuse he .
the landowner be complain about the peasant .
Levin see clearly that Sviyazhsky could have answer the landowner 's complaint so that the meaning of the latter 's word would have be destroy at once , but owe to his position he could not give that answer , and listen not without pleasure to the landowner 's funny speech .
this landowner with the grey moustache be evidently an inveterate believer in serfdom , and a passionate farmer who have live long in the country .
Levin see sign of this in the way the man be dress – he wear an old - fashioned shiny coat which he be evidently not use to – and in his intelligent , dismal eye , his well - turn russian , his authoritative tone , evidently acquire by long practice , and in the firm movement of his fine large sunburnt hand , the right one have an old wedding - ring on the third finger .
' if it be not a pity to give up what have be set go ... after spend so much toil ... I would throw it all up , sell out and , like Nicholas Ivanich , go away ... to hear La belle Hélène , ' say the landowner , a pleasant smile light up his wise old face .
' but we see you do not give it up , ' say Nicholas Ivanich Sviyazhsky , ' so it seem it have its advantage . '
' just one advantage : I live in my own house , which be neither buy nor hire .
and there be always the hope that the people will come to their sense .
you would hardly believe what drunkenness and debauchery there be !
the family have all separate ; they have not a horse nor a cow leave .
they be starve , yet if you hire one of they as a labourer , he will spoil and break thing , and will even lodge complaint with the magistrate . '
' on the other hand you , too , complain to the magistrate . '
' I complain ? never !
nothing could induce I to !
it would cause such gossip that one would be sorry one try it .
at the work now they take money in advance , and go off .
and what do the magistrate do ?
why , acquit they ! thing be only keep go by the village tribunal and the village elder .
he thrash they in the old style .
if it be not for that , one have well give up everything and flee to the end of the earth . '
the landowner evidently mean to tease Sviyazhsky , but the latter do not take offence ; on the contrary , he evidently enjoy it .
' well , you see , we carry on our work without such measure , I and Levin and he , ' sviyazhsky say smile , and point to the other landowner .
' yes , Michael Petrovich get on , but ask he how ?
be his what you would call " rational " farming ? ' say the landowner , ostentatiously use the word ' rational . '
' my farming be very simple , thank heaven ! ' say Michael Petrovich .
' my farming be to have money ready for the autumn taxis .
the peasant come along , and say , " be a father to we ! help we ! "
well , of course they be all our own people , our neighbour : one pity they , and lend they what they want , enough to pay the one - third then due , but one say , " remember , lad ! I help you , and you must help I when necessary – at the oat - sowing or haymake , at harvest time ; and one agree for so much work from each family . "
but it be true there be some dishonest one among they . '
Levin , who have long be acquaint with these patriarchal method , exchange a glance with Sviyazhsky , and , interrupt Michael Petrovich , address the landowner with the grey moustache .
' how then , in your opinion , should one carry on at present ? '
' why , carry on the way Michael Petrovich do : either pay the peasant in kind , or rent it to they ! that be quite possible , but the wealth of the community as a whole be ruin by such method .
where my land use to yield ninefold under serfdom with good management , it only now yield threefold when the labourer be pay in kind .
Russia have be ruin by the emancipation of the peasant . '
sviyazhsky look at Levin with smile eye , and even make a just perceptible sarcastic sign to he ridicule the old man , but Levin do not consider the landowner 's word ridiculous , he understand he well than he do Sviyazhsky .
much of what the landowner say subsequently , to prove that Russia be ruin by the Emancipation , even appear to he to be very true , new , and undeniable .
the landowner be evidently express his own thought – which people rarely do – thought to which he have be lead not by a desire to find some occupation for an idle mind , but by the condition of his life : thought which he have hatch in his rural solitude and consider from every side .
' the fact of the matter be , you see , that progress can only be achieve by authority , ' he say , evidently wish to show that education be not foreign to he . ' take for instance , the reform of Peter the Great , Catherine , and Alexander .
take european history .
in the realm of agriculture it be still more so .
to name only potato , they even have to be introduce by force into this country .
our primitive plough you know have not be always use .
they must have be introduce at the time of the Rurik Princes , and doubtless by force .
now in our case we landlord under serfdom apply improved method of agriculture : we introduce the winnowing machine and all sort of tool , organize the carting of manure all by our authority , and the peasant at first resist and afterwards copy we .
now that serfdom have be abolish and the power take out of our hand , our agriculture where it have be bring to a high level must descend to a savage and primitive condition .
that be haw I look at the matter . '
' but why ?
if your farming be rational you can carry it on with hire labour , ' say Sviyazhsky .
' I have no power .
by mean of whose labour be I to carry it on ? '
' here we have it ! the labour - power be the chief element of agriculture , ' think Levin .
' hired labourer , ' reply Sviyazhsky .
' hired labourer do not want to work well with good tool .
our labourer understand one thing only : to get drunk like swine , and when drunk to spoil everything you put into their hand .
they will water the horse at the wrong time , tear good harness , change a wheel with an iron tire for one without , or drop a bolt into the threshing machine in order to break it .
they hate to see anything that be beyond they .
that be why the level of agriculture have go down .
the land be neglect , overgrown with wormwood or give to the peasant , and where eight million bushel use to be produce they now only produce eight hundred thousand . the wealth of the nation have decrease .
if the same step have be take with due consideration ... '
and he begin to develop his plan of emancipation , which might have prevent this dislocation .
but it do not interest Levin , and , as soon as the landlord have finish , Levin return to the first proposition , and , try to get Sviyazhsky to express his view seriously , say to he :
' the fact that our agriculture be sink , that it be impossible , our relation to the peasant be what it be , to carry on our rational farming profitably , be quite true . '
' I do not think so , ' say Sviyazhsky , now quite serious . ' all I see be that we do not know how to farm , and that our farming in the day of serfdom be not at too high but on the contrary at too low a level .
we have no machine , no good horse , no proper management , and we do not know how to keep account .
ask any farmer ; he can not tell you what be profitable for you and what be not . '
' italian bookkeeping ! ' say the landowner scornfully . ' keep your account as you will – if they spoil everything you have get , you will not have a profit ! '
' why spoil everything ?
they will break your inferior russian thresher , but they can not break my steam threshing - machine .
the poor russian hack , what d'you call it ? ... of the breed that you have to drag along by the tail , can be spoil , but if you keep flemish dray or good russo - danish horse , they will not spoil they .
and it be by such mean that we must raise agriculture to a high level . '
' yes ; if one can afford it , Nicholas Ivanich !
it be all very well for you , but I have a son at the university to keep , and to pay for the little one ' education at the secondary school , so that I can not buy Flemish dray . '
' we have get bank for such case . '
' yes , and finish by be sell up by auction ! ...
no , thank you ! '
' I do not believe that it be either advisable or possible to raise the level of agriculture , ' say Levin . ' I go in for it , and have mean , but I never could do anything .
I do not know to whom bank be useful .
I at any rate never spend money on improvement without loss . expensive cattle bring I a loss , and machinery too . '
' yes , that be quite true , ' say the landowner with the grey moustache , and he even laugh with pleasure .
' and I be not the only one , ' continue Levin . ' I can refer you to many farmer who carry on rational farming , and with rare exception they all make a loss on it .
you just tell we , be your farming profitable ? ' say Levin , and at once notice a momentary expression of fright which he have observe before on Sviyazhsky 's face , when he try to penetrate beyond the reception room of his mind .
besides , this question be not quite honest .
his hostess have tell he at tea that they have engage that summer a German from Moscow , an expert bookkeeper , and pay he five hundred rouble to audit their account ; and he find that they lose three thousand rouble odd a year on their farming .
she do not remember the exact figure , though the German have calculate it down to a quarter of a kopeck .
the landowner smile when the profit of Sviyazhsky 's farming be mention , evidently aware of the sort of profit that his neighbour the Marshal of the Nobility be able to make .
' it may be unprofitable , ' answer Sviyazhsky , ' but that only show that I be either a bad farmer or that I spend capital to raise the rent . '
' oh dear ! the rent ! ' exclaim Levin , quite horrified . ' there may be such a thing as rent in Europe where the land have be improve by the labour put into it , but with we the land get poor by the labour put into it , that is , by be plough up . therefore there can be no such thing as rent . '
' no rent ?
rent be a natural law . '
' then we be outside that law : rent do not explain anything in our case , but on the contrary only cause confusion .
but you have well tell we how the theory of rent can be ... '
' would you like some curd and whey ?
Mary , send we some curds and whey or some raspberry here , ' say Sviyazhsky to his wife .
' this year the raspberry be last an extraordinarily long time , ' and Sviyazhsky get up cheerfully and move away , evidently regard the conversation as finish at the very point where to Levin it seem to be just begin .
having lose his interlocutor Levin continue the conversation with the landowner , try to prove to he that all our difficulty arise from the fact that we do not wish to understand the characteristic and habit of our labourer ; but the landowner , like everybody who think individually and in solitude , be obtuse to other thought and tenacious of his own .
he insist that the russian peasant be a pig and loved piggishness , and that , to lead he out of the pigsty , power be need , but there be no such power . a stick be necessary , but we have exchange the thousand - year - old stick for some kind of lawyer and prison , in which the good - for - nothing stink peasant be feed with good soup and provide with a give number of cubic foot of air .
' why do you think , ' ask Levin , try to bring he back to the question , ' that we could not establish some relation with labour which would make it remunerative ? '
' it will never be do with Russians !
we have no power ! ' answer the landowner .
' every possible relation to the power of labour have be define and investigate , ' he say . ' the remnant of barbarism , the primitive commune with its reciprocal bond , fall to piece of itself when serfdom be abolish , and there be nothing left but free labour ; its form be define and ready and we must accept they .
the labourer , the hire man , the farmer , you can not get away from they . '
' but the rest of Europe be not satisfied with that system . '
' no , it be dissatisfied and it be seek new method .
it will probably find they . '
' all I wish to say be , ' say Levin , ' why should we not seek they for ourselves ? '
' because it would be just the same as invent new method of build a railway .
they be invent and ready . '
' but if they do not suit we ? if they be stupid ? ' say Levin .
and again he notice a look of fear in the eye of Sviyazhsky .
' oh yes , it be all child 's play for we : we have discover what Europe be look for !
I know all that , but excuse I , do you know what have be accomplish in Europe with regard to the labour question ? '
' not much . '
' the question be at present occupy the good brain in Europe .
there be the Schulze - Delitzsch trend ...
then there be a whole gigantic literature on the labour question , with the most Liberal Lassalle tendency ...
the Mulhausen system – that be already a fact . I expect you know about it . '
' I have some idea about it , but very vague . '
' oh , you only say so , I be sure you know about it just as well as I do !
I be , of course , not a professor of sociology , but it interest I , and really if it interest you , you have well study the matter . '
' but what have they arrive at ? '
' excuse I ... '
the landowner have rise , and Sviyazhsky , having again check Levin in his disagreeable habit of pry beyond the reception room of his mind , go to see his visitor off .
LEVIN FELT INTOLERABLY BORED by the lady that evening . he be more than ever excite by the thought that the dissatisfaction with work on the land which he now experience be not an exceptional state of mind but the result of the condition of agriculture in Russia generally , and that some arrangement that would make the labourer work as they do for the peasant at the halfway - house be not an idle dream but a problem it be necessary to solve .
and he feel that it could be solve , and that he must try to do it .
having say good - night to the lady and promise to stay a whole day long in order to ride with they and see an interesting landslide in the State forest , Levin before go to bed go to his host 's study to borrow the book on the labour question which Sviyazhsky have offer he .
Sviyazhsky 's study be an enormous room line with book cupboard . there be two table in it , one a massive writing - table , the other a round one on which lie a number of newspaper and journal in different language , arrange as if they be mat round the lamp in the centre .
beside the writing - table be a stand with gold - label drawer contain various business paper .
sviyazhsky get down the book and settle himself in a rocking - chair .
' what be it you be look at ? ' he ask Levin , who , having stop at the round table , be look at one of the journal .
' oh , there be a very interesting article there , ' he add , refer to the journal Levin hold in his hand . ' it turn out that the chief agent in the Partition of Poland be not Frederick at all , ' he add , with gleeful animation .
' it turn out ... '
and with characteristic clearness he briefly recount these new and very important and interesting discovery .
though at present Levin be more interested in agriculture than in anything else , he ask himself while listen to his host , ' what be there inside he ?
and why , why do the Partition of Poland interest he ? '
and when Sviyazhsky have finish he could not help ask he , ' well , and what of it ? '
but Sviyazhsky have no answer to give .
it be interesting that ' it turn out , ' and he do not consider it necessary to explain why it interest he .
' yes , and I be greatly interested by that cross old landowner , ' say Levin with a sigh . ' he be intelligent and say much that be true . '
' oh , pooh !
he be secretly a rooted partisan of serfdom like all of they ! ' say Sviyazhsky .
' whose Marshal you be ... '
' yes , but I marshal they in the opposite direction , ' say Sviyazhsky , laugh .
' what interest I very much be this , ' say Levin : ' he be right when he say that our rational farming be not a success and that only money - lending method , like that quiet fellow 's , or very elementary method , pay , ...
whose fault be it ? '
' our own , of course ! but it be not true that it do not pay .
Vasilchikov make it pay . '
' a factory ... '
' I still can not understand what you be surprised at .
the people be on so low a level both of material and moral development that they be certain to oppose what be good for they .
in Europe rational farming answer because the people be educate ; therefore we must educate our people – that be all . '
' but how be one to educate they ? '
' to educate the people three thing be necessary : school , school , school ! '
' but you yourself just say that the people be on a low level of material development : how will school help that ? '
' do you know , you remind I of the story of the advice give to a sick man : " you should try an aperient . " – " I have , and it make I bad . " " try leech . " – " I have , and they make I bad . "
" well , then , you have well pray to God . " – " I have , and that make I bad ! "
it be just the same with we . I mention political economy ; you say it make thing bad .
I mention socialism ; you say , " still bad . "
education ? " bad and bad . "- '
' but how will school help ? '
' by give people other want . '
' now that I never could understand , ' reply Levin , hotly . ' how will school help the peasant to improve their material condition ?
you say that school and education will give they new want .
so much the bad , for they will not be able to satisfy they .
and in what way know how to add and subtract and to say the catechism will help they to improve their material condition , I never could understand !
the other evening I meet a woman with an infant in her arm and ask she where she be go .
she reply that she have be to see the " wise woman " because her boy be fractious , and she take he to be cure .
I ask she what cure the wise woman have for fractiousness .
" she put the baby on the perch among the fowl and say something . "- '
' well , there be your answer !
education will stop they from carry their child to the roost to cure they of fractiousness , ' say Sviyazhsky with a merry smile .
' oh , not at all ! ' say Levin , crossly . ' that treatment seem to I just a parallel to treat the peasant by mean of school .
the people be poor and ignorant , this we know as surely as the woman know that the child be fractious because it cry .
but why school should cure the ill of poverty and ignorance be just as incomprehensible as why hen on their perch should cure fractiousness .
what need to be cure be their poverty . '
' well , in this at least you agree with Spencer , whom you dislike so much ; he too say that education may result from increase well - being and comfort from frequent ablution , as he express it – but not from the ability to read and reckon ... '
' well , I be very glad , or rather very sorry , that I coincide with Spencer ; but it be a thing I have long know .
school be no remedy , but the remedy would be an economic organization under which the people would be well off and have more leisure . then school would come . '
' yet all over Europe education be now compulsory . '
' and how do you agree with Spencer yourself in this matter ? '
a frightened look flash up in Sviyazhsky 's eye and he say with a smile :
' yes , that cure for fractiousness be splendid !
do you really hear it yourself ? '
Levin see that he would not succeed in find a connection between this man 's life and his thought .
it be evidently all the same to he what conclusion his reasoning lead to : he only need the process itself , and he do not like it when the process of reasoning lead he up a blind alley .
that he dislike and evade by turn the conversation to something pleasantly jocular .
all the impression of that day , begin with the impression of the peasant at the halfway - house which seem to serve as a foundation for all the other impression and idea , agitate Levin greatly .
there be this amiable Sviyazhsky , who keep his opinion only for social use , and evidently have some other basis of life which Levin could not discern , while with that crowd , whose name be legion , he direct public opinion by mean of thought foreign to himself ; and that embittered landowner with perfectly sound view he have wring painfully from life , but wrong in his bitterness toward a whole class , and that the good class in Russia , and Levin 's own discontent with his own activity , and his vague hope of find a remedy for all these thing – all this merge into a feeling of restlessness and expectation of a speedy solution .
leave alone in the room assign to he , and lie on a spring mattress which bounce unexpectedly whenever he move a leg or an arm , it be long before Levin could sleep .
not one of the talk he have have with Sviyazhsky , though much that be clever have be say by the latter , interest he , but the landowner 's argument require consideration .
Levin involuntarily remember all that the man have say , and correct in imagination the answer he himself have give .
' I ought to have say to he : " you say that our farming be not a success because the peasant hate all improvement and that these should be introduce by force ; and if farming do not pay at all without these improvement , you would be right . but it succeed where and only where ( as in the case of the man at the halfway - house ) the labourer act in conformity with their habit .
your and our common dissatisfaction with farming show that we , and not the peasant , be at fault .
we have long push on in our own way – the european way – without consider the nature of the labour force available .
let we consider the labourer not as an abstract labour force but as a russian peasant with his own instinct , and let we arrange our farming accordingly .
" imagine ! " I ought to have say to he , " that your farming be conduct like that old man 's : that you have find mean to interest the labourer in the result of their work , and have find improvement which they must recognize as such – then , without impoverish the soil , you will get double and treble the crop you get now .
divide equally and give half the produce to labour , and the share leave for you will be large , and the labour force will receive more .
and to do this we must lower the level of cultivation and give the peasant an interest in its success .
how this can be do be a question of detail , but it be certainly possible . "- '
this think strongly excited Levin .
he lie awake half the night consider the detail necessary for carry his thought into effect .
he have not mean to leave next day , but now decide to go away early in the morning .
moreover there be the sister - in - law with the square - cut bodice , who occasion in he a feeling akin to shame and repentance cause by the commission of a bad action .
above all he have to get away immediately to propose his new plan to the peasant before the winter corn be sow , so that that work might be do on the new condition .
he decide completely to reverse his former method of farming .
the carrying out of LEVIN 's plan present many difficulty , but he struggle with all his might to attain , if not all he desire , at any rate a possibility of believe without self - deception that the thing be worth do .
one of the chief difficulty be that the farming be actually go on and it be impossible to stop it all and start afresh ; so that the machine have to be alter while it be work .
when , on the evening of his return , he inform the steward of his intention , the steward with evident pleasure agree with that part of the plan which show that all that have be do up to then be foolish and unprofitable .
he remark that he have always say so but have not be listen to .
but to Levin 's proposal that he , like the peasant , should participate as a shareholder would in the farming , the steward only put on a look of great depression and express no definite opinion , but at once begin to speak of the necessity of cart the last sheaf of rye next day and of start the second ploughing , so that Levin feel that it be not the time for his plan to be consider .
when speak of the matter to the peasant and offer they land on the new condition , Levin again meet with the same difficulty ; they too be so fully occupy with the labour of the day that they have no time to consider the advantage and disadvantage of the venture .
the naive peasant , the cowman Ivan , quite understand Levin 's offer of let he and his family have a share in the profit of the dairy farm , and quite sympathize with this undertaking : but when Levin impress upon he the benefit that would accrue to he in the future , a look of anxiety and regret that he could not stop to listen to it all appear on Ivan 's face , and he hurriedly remember some task that could not be put off , seize a hay - fork to remove the hay from the enclosure , fetched water , or clear away the manure .
another stumbling - block be the peasant 's invincible mistrust of the possibility of a landlord have any other aim than that of rob they as much as possible .
they be firmly convinced that his real aim ( whatever he might say ) would always be hide in what he do not tell they .
and they themselves , when they talk , say much , but never say what they really want .
besides all this ( Levin feel that the splenetic landowner be right ) , the peasant put as the first and unalterable condition in any agreement , that they should not be oblige to use any new method or new kind of tool for their work .
they agree that an english plough plough well , that a scarifier work quick , but they find a thousand reason why they could not use either the one or the other ; and , though he be convince that it would be necessary to lower his standard of farming , he dislike have to give up improvement the benefit of which be so clear .
yet in spite of all these difficulty he get his way , and by autumn the scheme begin to work , or at any rate it seem so to he .
at first Levin think of let the whole of his farm as it stand to the peasant , to the labourer , and to his steward , on the new co - partnership line , but he very soon see that this be impossible and decide to divide up the different part .
the cattle - yard , the fruit and vegetable garden , the meadow and the corn - field , divide into several part , should come under different section .
the naive Ivan , who , it seem to Levin , well understand the plan , form an artel [ an artel be a workman 's profit - sharing association , with mutual responsibility , common in Russia . ] consist chiefly of his own family , and become partner in the dairy section .
the far field that have lain fallow for eight year be , with the aid of the intelligent carpenter Theodore Rezunov , take up by six peasant ' family on the new co - operative line , and the peasant Shuraev rent the vegetable garden on similar term .
the rest remain as before ; but these three section be the beginning of a new order and fully occupy Levin .
it be true that the dairy farm do not as yet go on any well than before , and Ivan strongly oppose heat the cowshed and make butter from fresh cream , maintain that cow require less food when keep in the cold and that butter make from sour cream go far ; and that he expect his wage to be pay as before , not be at all interested to know that they be not wage but an advance on account of profit .
it be true that Theodore Rezunw 's group do not plough the corn land twice with the english plough as they have agree to do , plead lack of time .
it be true that the peasant of that group , though they have agree to farm the land on the new condition , do not speak of it as co - operatively hold land , but as land hold for payment in kind ; and that the member of that group and Rezunov himself say to Levin : ' if you would only accept money for the land it would be less trouble for you , and we should feel free . '
moreover , these peasant , on all sort of pretext , keep put off the building of the cattle - shed and granary they have agree to put up on this land , and drag the matter on till winter .
it be true that Shuraev have take step to sublet the kitchen garden in small lot to the other peasant ; he evidently quite misunderstood , and apparently intentionally misunderstood , the condition on which the land be let to he .
it be true that often when talk to the peasant , and explain to they the advantage of the plan , Levin feel that they be only listen to the sound of his voice and be quite determined , whatever he might say , not to let themselves be take in .
he feel this especially when talk to the most intelligent of they , Rezunov , and notice the play in his eye , which clearly indicate his derision of Levin and a firm resolve that if anyone be take in it should not be Rezunov .
but in spite of this , Levin think matter be get on , and that by keep strict account and insist on have his way he would eventually be able to prove to the peasant the advantage of these new arrangement , and that thing would then go on of themselves .
these affair add to the rest of the farming which remain on his hand , and the indoor work on his book , so fill Levin 's whole summer that he hardly ever make time to go out shooting .
at the end of August he hear from a servant who bring back the side - saddle that the Oblonskys have go back to Moscow .
he feel that by not having answer Dolly Oblonskaya 's letter ( a rudeness he could not remember without blush ) he have burn his boat and could never visit there again .
he have treat the Sviyazhskys just as badly , having leave their house without say good - bye .
but neither would he ever visit they again .
that make no difference to he now .
the rearrangement of his farming interest he more than anything have ever do in his life .
he read through the book lend he by Sviyazhsky , and , having order various other that he require , he read book on political economy and socialistic book on the same subject , but , as he have expect , he find nothing in they relate to his undertaking .
in the work on political economy – in Mill for instance , which he study first and with great ardour , hope every moment to find a solution of the question that occupy he – he find various law deduce as govern the state of agriculture in Europe , but he could not see why these law , inapplicable to Russia , should be consider universal !
it be the same with the socialistic book : they be either beautiful but inapplicable fancy which have carry he away when he be still at the university or they be improvement and patching - up of the order exist in Europe , with which agricultural affair in Russia have nothing in common .
political economy maintain that the law by which the wealth of Europe have develop and be develop be universal and unquestionable law .
the socialistic teaching declare that development on those line lead to ruin .
but neither the one set of book nor the other so much as hint at explain what Levin , and all the russian peasant and landowner with their million of hand and acre , should do to make they as productive as possible for the general welfare .
having take up this question he conscientiously read everything relate to it ; and he purpose go abroad in the autumn to study the question far there , so that what have often happen to he with other question should not be repeat .
often , just as he be begin to understand the idea in his interlocutor 's mind and to explain his own , he would suddenly be ask : and what about Kauffmann and Jones , and Dubois and Michelli ? '
have you not read they ?
you should do so : they have elucidate the question !
he now clearly see that Kauffmann and Michelli have nothing to tell he .
he know what he want .
he see that Russia have splendid soil and splendid labourer and that in some case ( such as that of the peasant at the halfway house ) the labourer and land produce much : but that in the majority of case , when capital be expend in the european way , they produce little , and that this happen simply because the labourer be only willing to work and work well , in the way natural to they , and that their opposition be not accidental but permanent , be root in the spirit of the people .
he think that the russian people whose mission it be to occupy and cultivate enormous unoccupied tract of land , deliberately , as long as any land remain unoccupied , keep to the method necessary for that purpose and that those method , be not at all as bad as be generally think .
this he want to prove theoretically in his book and practically by his farming .
by the END of SEPTEMBER the timber for the building to be erect on the land let to the peasant - group be cart , the butter be all sell and the profit divide .
everything on the estate be go well practically , at least Levin think so .
to elucidate matter theoretically and to finish his book , which , accord to his dream , would not only revolutionize political economy but completely abolish that science and lie the foundation of a new science ( that of the relation of the people to the land ) it be only necessary to go abroad and there study what have be do on the subject and find convincing proof that what have be do there be not what be need .
Levin be only wait for the wheat to be deliver and to get pay for it , before leave for abroad .
but rain set in , make it impossible to get in what remain of the corn and potato , stop all the work , and even prevent the delivery of the wheat .
the mud make the road impassable : two mill have be carry away by flood , and the weather be get bad and bad .
on the thirtieth of September the sun show itself in the morning , and , in hope of fine weather , Levin begin seriously prepare for his departure .
he give order that the grain be to be get ready for cart and send the steward to the merchant to collect the money for the wheat , while he himself go round to give final instruction before leave .
having get through all his business , soak by the stream of water that have run in at the neck of his leather coat and at the top of his high boot , but in the most buoyant and animated spirit , he return home in the evening .
the weather grow still bad toward evening and the frozen sleet beat the whole body of his drenched horse so painfully that it shake its head and ear and go sideways . but Levin under his hood feel comfortable ; he look cheerfully round , now at the turbid stream that run down the rut , now at the drop that hang from every bare twig , now at the white spot of unthawed sleet that lie on the plank of the bridge or on the heap of still juicy willow leave lie in a thick layer round a denuded tree .
notwithstanding the gloomy aspect of nature around he he feel peculiarly elated .
his conversation with the peasant of the outlying village show that they be begin to get use to the new condition .
an old inn - keeper , into whose house he have go to dry himself , evidently approve of Levin 's plan and have offer to join a group to buy cattle .
' I need only push on steadily toward my aim and I shall achieve it , ' he think , ' and it be worth work and strive for .
it be not a personal affair of my own but one of public welfare .
the whole system of farming , and above all the position of the people , must be completely alter : instead of poverty – wealth and satisfaction for all ; instead of hostility – concord and a bond of common interest .
in a word – a revolution bloodless but immense ; first in our own small district , then throughout the province , throughout Russia , and the whole world – for a good thought must be fruitful .
yes it be an aim worth work for !
the fact that the author of it be myself , Constantine Levin , who once go to a ball in a black tie , whom Kitty Shcherbatskaya refuse , and who seem so pitiful and insignificant to himself prove nothing .
I feel sure that Franklin feel just as insignificant and distrust himself just as I do when he remember his past .
all that do not matter .
he too probably have an Agatha Mikhaylovna to whom he confide his secret . '
with such thought Levin reach home when it be already dark .
the steward , having be to the merchant , have return bring an instalment of the money for the wheat .
an arrangement have be make with the innkeeper , and the steward , while away , have learn that the corn have nowhere be get in , so that Levin 's hundred and sixty stack still in the field be a trifle compare to what other be lose .
having dine , Levin as usual sit down in his easy - chair with a book , and while read continue to think about his impending journey in connection with the book he be write .
to - day the importance of his work present itself to he with especial clearness , and whole paragraph of their own accord shape themselves in his mind , express the gist of his thought .
' I must write that , down , ' think he . ' that must form a short preface , such as I formerly consider unnecessary . '
he rise to go to his writing - table , and Laska , who be lie at his foot , stretch herself , also get up , and look round at he as if ask where she be to go to .
but he have no time to write his thought down , for the labourer ' foreman have come , and Levin go into the hall to speak to they .
after arrange about the next day 's work by see the peasant who have come on business , Levin go to his study and sit down to his work .
Laska lie down under the table , and Agatha Mikhaylovna with her knitting sit down in her usual place .
having write for some time , Levin suddenly with particular vividness remember Kitty , her refusal , and their last meeting .
he rise and begin to pace up and down the room .
' what be the use of fret ? ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna . ' why do you always sit at home ?
you should go to a watering - place now that you have get ready . '
' so I shall : I be go the day after to - morrow , Agatha Mikhaylovna , only I must finish my business . '
' eh , what be your business ?
have you not do enough for the peasant as it be !
why , they be say , " your master will get a reward from the Tsar for it ! "
and it be strange : why should you bother about the peasant ? '
' I be not bother about they : I be do it for myself . '
Agatha Mikhaylovna know all the detail of Levin 's farming plan .
he often lay bare his thought before she in all their detail , and frequently argue with she and disagree with her explanation .
but this time she quite misunderstand what he say .
' of course one must think of one 's soul before everything else , ' she remark with a sigh . ' there be Parfen Denisich , who be no scholar at all , but may God grant everyone to die as he do ! ' she say , refer to a servant who have die recently : ' he receive Holy Communion and Extreme Unction . '
' I be not speak about that , ' he say . ' I mean that I be do it for my own profit .
my gain be big when the peasant work well . '
' but , whatever you do , an idler will always bungle .
if he have a conscience he will work , if not , you can do nothing with he . '
' but you yourself say that Ivan look after the cattle well now . '
' I only say , ' answer Agatha Mikhaylovna , evidently not speak at random but with strict sequence of thought , ' you must marry , that be all ! '
her mention of the very thing he be just think about grieve and hurt he .
he frown , and without reply again sit down to his work , repeat to himself all that he have be think about its importance .
only occasionally , in the stillness , he listen to the clicking of her needle and , remember what he do not wish to remember , make a wry face .
at nine o'clock he hear the sound of a bell and the heavy lurching of a carriage through the mud .
' there now ! visitor have come to you , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna , rise and go toward the door .
' now you will not feel dull . '
but Levin overtake she . his work be not get on now and he be glad of a visitor , whoever it might be .
halfway to the front door Levin hear a familiar sound of cough in the hall , but the noise of his own footstep prevent his hearing it clearly and he hope he be mistaken . then he see the whole of his brother 's long bony , familiar figure , and it seem that there could be no mistake , but he still hope he be mistaken and that this tall man , who be take off his overcoat and coughing , be not his brother Nicholas .
Levin be fond of his brother , but to be with he be always a torment .
under the sway of the thought that have come to he and of Agatha Mikhaylovna 's reminder , he be in an unsettled and confused state of mind and the forthcoming meeting with his brother seem particularly distressing .
instead of a cheerful , healthy stranger who , he hope , would have divert he from his mental perplexity , he have to meet his brother , who know he through and through and would disturb his innermost thought and force he to make a clean breast of everything .
and that be what he do not desire .
angry with himself for this bad feeling Levin run into the hall ; and as soon as he have a near view of his brother this feeling of disappointment vanish and be replace by pity .
dreadful as his emaciation and illness have previously make Nicholas , he be now still thin and weak .
he be a mere skeleton cover with skin .
he stand in the hall jerk his long , thin neck , draw a scarf from it , and smile in a strangely piteous manner .
when he see this meek , submissive smile , Levin feel his throat contract convulsively .
' there ! I have come to see you , ' say Nicholas in a hollow voice , without take his eye for an instant from his brother 's face .
' I have long want to , but do not feel well . now I be much well , ' and he wipe his beard with the thin palm of his hand .
' yes , yes ! ' answer Levin .
he be still more terrified when , kiss his brother 's face , his lip feel the dryness of the skin and he see his large strangely brilliant eye close at hand .
some week before this Constantine Levin have write to tell his brother that , after the sale of a few thing which till then have remain undivided , Nicholas be entitle to his share , which come to about 2ooo rouble .
Nicholas say that he have now come to fetch that money , but chiefly to visit his own nest and touch his native soil , in order like the hero of old to gather strength from it for the work that lay before he .
in spite of the fact that he be more round - shouldered than ever and that , be so tall , his leanness be startling , his movement be quick and sudden as formerly .
Levin take he to his room .
Nicholas dress carefully , a thing he never use to do , brush his thin , straight hair and go smile upstairs .
he be in a most affectionate and cheerful mood , such as Levin remember his often be in as a child : and he even mention Sergius Ivanich without irritation .
when he meet Agatha Mikhaylovna he joke with she and question she about the other old servant : the news of Parfen Denisich 's death affect he strangely .
a look of fear appear on his face but he immediately recover himself .
' after all , he be old , ' he remark and change the subject . ' well , I will spend a month or two with you and then I will go to Moscow .
D'you know , Myagkov have promise I a post and I be enter the Civil Service .
I will now arrange my life quite differently , ' he continue . ' you know , I have got rid of that woman ? '
' Mary Nikolavna ?
why , what for ? '
' oh , she be a horrid woman !
she have cause I a lot of unpleasantness , ' but he do not say in what the unpleasantness consist .
he could not explain that he have turn Mary Nikolavna away because she make his tea too weak , and chiefly because she wait on he as on an invalid . ' besides , I want to alter my life completely .
of course , like everybody else , I have do stupid thing , but property be the least consideration and I do not regret mine .
health be the great thing , and my health , thank God , have improve . '
Levin listen , try but unable to think of what to say .
Nicholas probably feel the same ; he begin question his brother about his affair , and Levin be glad to talk about himself because he could do so without any pretence : he tell Nicholas of his plan and activity .
Nicholas listen but evidently be not interested .
these two man be so near akin and so intimate with one another , that between they the least movement or intonation express more than could be say in word .
at present the same thought fill both their mind and dominate all else : Nicholas 's illness and approach death .
but neither of they dare speak of it , and not having express the one thing that occupy their thought , whatever they say ring false .
never before have Levin feel so glad when an evening be over and it be time to go to bed .
never have he be so unnatural and artificial , even with an outsider or when make a formal call , as he be that day .
and his consciousness of this artificiality and his repentance make he more unnatural .
he wish to weep over his dear , die brother , but have to listen and keep up a conversation about how Nicholas be go to live .
the house be damp , and only his bedroom heat , Levin put his brother to sleep behind a partition in that room .
Nicholas go to bed but , whether he sleep or not , keep toss and cough like a sick man and , when unable to clear his throat , mutter some complaint .
sometimes he sigh deeply and say , ' oh , my God ! '
sometimes , when the phlegm choke he , he mutter angrily , ' oh , the devil ! '
Levin long lie awake listening to he .
his thought be very various , but they all lead up to death .
death , the inevitable end of everything , confront he for the first time with irresistible force .
and that death which be present in this dear brother ( who , wake up , moan and by habit call indiscriminately on God and on the devil ) be not so far away as it have hitherto seem to be .
it be within himself too he feel it .
if not to - day , then to - morrow or thirty year hence , be it not all the same ?
but what that inevitable death be , he not only do not know , not only have never consider , but could not and dared not consider .
' I be work , I want to do something , and I have forget that it will all end in Death ! '
he sit on his bed in the dark , double his arm round his knee and think , scarcely breathe from the mental strain .
but the more mental effort he make the clear he see that it be undoubtedly so : that he have really forget and overlook one little circumstance in life – that death would come and end everything , so that it be useless to begin anything , and that there be no help for it . yes it be terrible , but true .
' but I be still alive : what be I to do now ?
what be I to do ? ' he say despairingly .
he light a candle , get up carefully , go to the look - glass , and begin examine his face and hair .
yes ! there be grey hair on his temple .
he open his mouth : his double tooth be begin to decay .
he bare his muscular arm .
yes , he be very strong .
but Nicholas , who be breathe there with the remain of his lung , have once have a healthy body too ; and he suddenly remember how as child they use to go to bed together and only wait till Theodore Bogdanich have leave the room , to throw pillow at one another and to laugh and laugh so irrepressibly that even the fear of Theodore Bogdanich could not stop that overflowing bubble consciousness of the joy of live .
' and now that sink and hollow chest ... and I , who do not know what will happen to I , or why ... '
' Kha , kha !
oh , the devil !
what be you fidget for ?
why do not you sleep ? ' his brother 's voice call to he .
' oh , I do not know , just sleeplessness . '
' and I have sleep well ; I do not perspire now .
see , feel my shirt , it be not damp ! '
Levin feel it , return behind the partition , and put out the candle , but be long unable to sleep .
just when the question of how to live have become a little clear to he , a new insoluble problem present itself – death .
' well , he be die , he will die before spring . how can he be help ?
what can I say to he ?
what do I know about it ?
I have forget there be such a thing ! '
LEVIN have long AGO NOTICED that after people have make one uncomfortable by their pliancy and submissiveness they soon become unbearably exact and aggressive .
he feel that this would happen with his brother .
and really Nicholas 's meekness do not last long .
the very next morning he grow irritable and cavil at everything his brother say , touch his most sensitive spot .
Levin feel guilty but could do nothing .
he feel that if they both speak without dissimulation and straight from the heart , they would only look into one another 's eye and Constantine would say nothing but , ' you will die ! you will die ! ' and Nicholas would only say in reply : ' I know I shall die and I be afraid , afraid , afraid ! '
that be all they would say if only they speak straight from the heart .
but that would make life impossible , therefore Constantine try to do what all his life he have try and never know how to do ( although he have often observe that many people be able to do it well ) , something without which life be impossible : he try to say something different from what he think ; and he feel all the time that it sound false and that his brother detect he and grow irritable .
on the third day of his stay Nicholas challenge his brother to explain his plan to he once more , and not only find fault with they but purposely confuse they with communism .
' you have only take an idea from other , and distort it , and you wish to apply it where it be inapplicable . '
' but I tell you that the two thing have nothing in common !
communist deny the justice of property , capital , or inheritance , while I do not deny that main stimulus ' ( it be repulsive to Levin to find himself use such word , but since he have be engross in his work he have involuntarily begin use more and more foreign word ) , ' but want only to regulate labour . '
' that be it . you have take other people 's idea , drop all that give it force , and wish to make one believe that it be something new , ' say Nicholas , angrily jerk his neck .
' but my idea have nothing in common ... '
' that idea , ' say Nicholas Levin with a sarcastic smile and angrily glisten eye , ' that idea at any rate , if one may say so , have a geometric charm of definiteness and certainty .
it may be utopian ; but grant the possibility of make a tabula rasa of the past – and abolish private property and family – then labour come by its own . but you have nothing ... '
' why do you muddle it ? I never be a communist . '
' but I have be , and now I think it be premature but reasonable , and that it have a future as Christianity have in the first century . '
' I only think that the force of labour must be deal with in a scientifically experimental manner . it must be study and its characteristic ... '
' but that be quite unnecessary !
that force find its own form of activity in accord with its degree of development .
there use to be slave everywhere , then villein ; and we have labour pay in kind , and leaseholder , and hire labour : so what be you look for ? '
at these word Levin suddenly grow warm , for at the bottom of his heart he feel that it be true – true that he wish to balance between communism and the exist form of life , and that this be hardly possible .
' I be seek for a way of make labour profitable for I and for the labourer , ' he answer hotly .
' I want to establish ... '
' you do not want to establish anything . you simply want to be original , as you always have do , and to show that you be not just exploit the peasant , but have idea ! '
' you think so ? well , then , leave I alone ! ' say Levin , and he feel that a muscle be uncontrollably quiver in his left cheek .
' you have no conviction and never have any ; you only want to flatter your self - esteem . '
' well , all right ! but leave I alone . '
' I will , and high time too !
you can go to the devil !
and I be sorry I come ! '
however much Levin try afterwards to pacify his brother , Nicholas would not listen to it , but say that it be much well for they to part . and Levin see that life have become simply intolerable for his brother .
Nicholas have quite make up his mind to go . Constantine come to he again and in an unnatural manner ask his forgiveness if he have offend he in any way .
' ah , this be magnanimity ! ' say Nicholas , and smile . ' if you wish to be in the right , I can let you have that pleasure .
you be in the right ; but all the same I shall go away . '
only just before he leave Nicholas kiss Constantine , and suddenly say with a strange and serious look at his brother ,
' do not think too badly of I , Kostya ! ' and his voice tremble .
these be the only sincere word that have pass between they .
Levin understand that they be mean to say , ' you see that I be in a bad way , and perhaps we shall not meet again . '
he understand this , and tear tremble in his eye .
he again kiss his brother , but he do not know what to answer .
three day after his brother 's departure Levin leave for abroad .
he surprise young Shcherbatsky , Kitty 's cousin , whom he happen to meet at a railway station , by his moroseness .
' what be the matter with you ? ' ask Shcherbatsky .
' nothing much , but there be little to be happy about in this world . '
' little ? you would well come to Paris with I instead of go to some Mulhausen or other .
you will see how jolly it will be ! '
' no , I have do with that ; it be time for I to die . '
' that be a fine thing ! ' say Shcherbatsky , laugh . ' I be only prepare to begin to live . '
' yes , I think so too till lately ; but now I know that I shall soon die . '
Levin be say what of late he have really be think .
he see death and the approach of death in everything ; but the work he have begin interested he all the more .
after all , he have to live his life somehow , till death come .
everything for he be wrap in darkness ; but just because of the darkness , feel his work to be the only thread to guide he through that darkness , he seize upon it and clung to it with all his might .
PART IV
the karenin , HUSBAND and WIFE , continue to live in the same house and to meet daily , but they be wholly estranged .
Karenin make it a rule to see his wife every day , so as not to give the servant any ground for make conjecture , but he avoid dining at home .
Vronsky never come to the Karenins ' house , but Anna meet he elsewhere and her husband know it .
the situation be a torment to all three , and not one of they could have stand it for a single day but for the hope that it would change and that the whole matter be only a temporary , though painful , trial .
Karenin expect the passion to pass , as everything pass ; all would be forget and his name not dishonoured .
Anna , who be responsible for the situation , and for whom among the three it be most painful , bear it because she not only expect , but feel sure , that very soon everything would be settle and clear up .
she have not the least idea what would settle it , but be quite certain that it would now come very soon .
involuntarily submit to her judgment , Vronsky too expect something , not dependent on he , to clear up all these difficulty .
in the middle of the winter he spend a very dull week .
he have be choose to act as guide to a foreign Prince , and be oblige to show he the sight of Petersburg .
Vronsky have a distinguished appearance , possess the art of carry himself with respectful dignity , and be in the habit of associate with people of that class .
that be why he be choose to attend the Prince ; but the task seem a hard one to he .
the Prince do not want to miss see anything about which he might be question at home and he also want to enjoy as many russian amusement as possible ; and Vronsky be oblige to accompany he in both case .
in the morning they go sight - seeing , and in the evening take part in the national amusement .
the Prince enjoy unusually good health even for a Prince , and by mean of gymnastic and care of his body have develop his strength to such a degree that , in spite of the excess he indulge in when amusing himself , he look as fresh as a big green shine cucumber .
he have travel a great deal , and consider that one of the chief advantage of the present convenient way of communication be the easy access they afford to national amusement .
he have be to Spain , where he arrange serenade and become intimate with a spanish woman who play the mandoline .
in Switzerland he have shoot a chamois , in England he have jump hedge in a pink coat and shoot two hundred pheasant for a bet .
he have be in a harem in Turkey , ride an elephant in India , and now in Russia he want a taste of distinctive russian amusement .
Vronsky , who be , so to say , the Prince 's chief master of ceremony , have great difficulty in organize all the russian amusement offer to the Prince by various people : trotting - race , pancake , bear - hunting , and drive in three - horse sledge , gipsy , and russian spree with smashing of crockery .
and the Prince imbibe the russian spirit with the great ease , smash tray full of crockery , make gipsy girl sit on his lap , and yet seem to be always ask : ' what next ? be this the whole of the russian spirit ? '
but , on the whole , of all the russian amusement the Prince like the french actress , a ballet girl , and white - seal champagne good .
Vronsky be use to Princes , but whether it be that he himself have lately change , or whether his intimacy with this Prince be too close , that week at any rate appear very wearisome to he . all that week he feel like a man attend a lunatic and afraid for his own reason too .
he be oblige to be on his guard the whole time not to deviate from the path of severe official respect , for fear of be insult .
the Prince 's manner toward the very people who , to Vronsky 's astonishment , be ready to go through fire and water to provide russian amusement for he , be contemptuous .
his opinion of russian woman , whom he want to study , more than once make Vronsky flush with indignation .
but the chief reason why the Prince 's presence oppress Vronsky be that he see himself reflect in the Prince , and what he see in that mirror be not flattering to his vanity .
the Prince be a very stupid , very healthy and very cleanly man – and nothing more .
he be a gentleman , it be true , and Vronsky could not deny it .
he be quiet and not cringe with those above he , free and simple with his equal , and contemptuously good - natured with his inferior .
Vronsky be the same , and consider it very meritorious to be so , but in his relation with the Prince he be the inferior and feel indignant with that condescendingly good - natured treatment .
' Stupid ox ! can I really be like that myself ? ' he think .
however this may have be , he part from the Prince ( who go on to Moscow ) and receive his thank . Vronsky be very pleased to be rid of the embarrassing situation and the unpleasant mirror .
he take leave of he at the railway station on the seventh day , on return from a bear - hunt , after which there have be demonstration of russian ' prowess ' all night .
ON returning home Vronsky find a note from Anna await he .
she write , ' I be ill and unhappy .
I can not go out , neither can I go on any long without see you .
come this evening ; Alexis Alexandrovich be go to the Council and will remain there till ten . '
after wonder for a moment at the strangeness of she ask he straight out to come to her house in spite of her husband 's injunction , he decide to go .
he have that winter be promote to the rank of colonel , have leave the regiment , and be live alone .
immediately after lunch he lie down on the sofa . five minute later the memory of the disreputable scene at which he have be present during the last few day become jumbled and connect with picture of Anna and a peasant who have play an important part as a beater at the bear - hunting ; and Vronsky fall asleep .
he wake up in the dark tremble with fear , and hurriedly light a candle .
' what have happen ?
what horror I dream !
yes , yes , the peasant , the beater – I think he be small and dirty with a tangled beard – be stoop down and do something or other , and suddenly begin to say strange word in French .
that be all there be in that dream , ' he think . ' but why do it seem so terrible ? '
he vividly recall the peasant and the incomprehensible word that the man have utter , and a shudder of terror run down his back .
' what nonsense ! ' he think , glance at his watch .
it be already half past eight .
he ring for his valet , dress hurriedly , and go out into the porch , having quite forget his dream and feeling worried only by the fact that he be late .
as he drive up to the karenin ' porch he again glance at his watch and see that it be ten minute to nine .
a high narrow brougham with a pair of grey horse stand before the front door .
' she be come to I , ' think Vronsky ; ' that would have be well .
it be unpleasant for I to enter this house .
but no matter ! I can not hide , ' he think ; and with the manner ; habitual to he since childhood , of one who have nothing to be ashamed of , Vronsky get out of his sledge and go to the door .
the door open and the hall porter with a rug over his arm call to the coachman .
Vronsky , though not in the habit of notice detail , notice the look of surprise on the man 's face .
in the doorway he nearly knock up against Karenin .
the gaslight light up Karenin 's wear , bloodless face beneath the black hat , and his white tie show from beneath the beaver collar of his overcoat .
his dull , expressionless eye be fix on Vronsky 's face .
Vronsky bow , and Karenin silently move his lip , lift his hand to his hat , and go out .
Vronsky see he get into the carriage without look round , take the rug and a pair of opera - glass through the carriage window ; then he disappear in the darkness .
Vronsky enter the hall .
his brow be knit and his eye shine with a proud , angry light .
' that be a nice position ! ' he think . ' if he struggle , if he defend his honour , I could act and could express my feeling ; but this weakness or meanness ...
he put I in the position of an impostor – which I do not and do not mean to be . '
since the explanation with Anna in the Vrede Gardens Vronsky 's idea have change .
involuntarily submit to Anna 's weakness , who , ready in advance to accept anything , give herself up to he entirely and expect he to decide her fate , he have long cease to imagine that their union could end in the way he have then expect .
his ambitious plan have recede to the background , and feel that he have come out of the range of activity in which everything be definite , he completely give himself up to his passion , and that passion bind he close and close to she .
while still in the hall he hear she retreat footstep , and know that she have be wait and listen for he , but have now go back to the drawing - room .
' no ! ' she cry when she see he , and at the first sound of her voice tear fill her eye . ' no ! if thing go on like this for long , it will happen much , much soon ! '
' what , my dear ? '
' what !
I wait in torment , one hour , two hour ...
no , no ! I will not ! ...
I can not quarrel with you .
I expect you could not help it .
no , I will not ! '
she put both her hand on his shoulder and gaze at he long , with a deep look of ecstasy and yet searchingly .
she scrutinize his face to make up for the time she have not see he .
she compare , as she do at every interview with he , the image her fancy paint of he ( incomparably fine than , and impossible in , actual existence ) with his real self .
' you MET HIM ? ' she ask when they sit down at a table under the lamp . ' that be your punishment for be late . '
' yes , but how do it happen ?
he have to be at the Council ! '
' he have be and have come back , and afterwards go somewhere else .
but never mind : do not speak about it .
where have you be ?
with the Prince all the time ? '
she know all the detail of his life .
he wish to say that he have be up all night and have fall asleep , but see she excited and happy face he feel ashamed .
so he say that he have to go and report the Prince 's departure .
' but now that be all over ?
he have go ? '
' yes , thank heaven ! that be all over .
you would hardly believe how intolerable it be . '
' why ?
be it not the kind of life all you young man lead ? ' she say , frown ; and take up her crochet - work from the table begin disentangle the hook without look at Vronsky .
' I have long since abandon that kind of life , ' he say , wonder at the change in her face and try to penetrate its meaning . ' and I must own , ' he go on smile and show his compact row of tooth , ' that I seem to have be look in a mirror the whole of this week while watch that kind of life , and it be very unpleasant . '
she hold her work in her hand , without crochet , gaze at he with a strange , glittering , unfriendly look .
' Lisa call on I this morning ; they still visit I in spite of the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , ' she say , ' and she tell I about your athenian party .
how disgusting ! '
' I be only go to say that ... '
she interrupt he .
' it be Therese , whom you know before ? '
' I be go to say ... '
' how horrid you man be !
how be it that you can forget that a woman can not forget these thing ? ' she say , get more and more heated and thereby betray the cause of her irritation . ' especially a woman who can not know your life .
what do I know ? what do I know ?
only what you tell I . and what proof have I that you tell I the truth ? '
' Anna , you hurt I .
do not you believe I ?
have I not tell you that I have not a thought that I would hide from you ? '
' yes ; yes ! ' she say , evidently try to drive away her jealous thought . ' but if you only know how hard it be for I !
I believe you , I do believe you ...
well , what be you go to say ? '
but he could not at once remember what he have wish to say .
these fit of jealousy which have lately begin to repeat themselves more and more frequently , horrify he and , however much he try to hide the fact , they make he feel cold toward she , although he know that the jealousy be cause by love for he .
how often he have tell himself that to be love by she be happiness ! and now that she love he , as only a woman can for whom love outweigh all else that be good in life , he be much far from happiness than when he have follow she from Moscow .
then he think himself unhappy , but happiness be all in the future ; now he feel that the good happiness be already in the past .
she be not at all such as he have first see she .
both morally and physically she have change for the bad .
she have broaden out , and as she speak of the actress there be a malevolent look on her face which distort its expression .
he look at she as a man might look at a faded flower he have pluck , in which it be difficult for he to trace the beauty that have make he pick and so destroy it .
yet in spite of this he feel that though at first while his love be strong he would have be able , have he earnestly desire it , to pull that love out of his heart – yet now when he imagine , as he do at that moment , that he feel no love for she , he know that the bond between they could not be break .
' well , what be you go to tell I about the Prince ?
I have drive away the demon , ' she add .
they speak of jealousy as ' the demon . ' ' yes , what have you begin tell I about the Prince ?
what be it you find so hard to bear ? '
' oh , it be intolerable ! ' he say , try to pick up the lost thread of what he have in his mind . ' he do not improve on near acquaintance .
if I be to describe he , he be a finely - breed animal , like those that get prize at cattle - show , and nothing more , ' he conclude in a tone of vexation which awake her interest .
' oh , but in what way ? ' she rejoin . ' anyhow he must have see much , and be well educate ... '
' it be quite a different kind of education – that education of theirs .
one can see that he have be educate only to have the right to despise education , as they despise everything except animal pleasure . '
' but do not all of you like those animal pleasure ? ' she remark , and he again notice on her face that dismal look which evade his .
' why do you take his part so ? ' he say , smile .
' I do not take his part , and it be a matter of complete indifference to I , but I should say that as you do not like these pleasure you might have decline to go .
but it give you pleasure to see Therese dress as Eve ... '
' again ! again the demon ! ' say Vronsky , take the hand which she have put on the table , and kiss it .
' yes , but I can not help it !
you do not know how I have suffer while wait for you !
I do not think I have a jealous nature .
I be not jealous ; I trust you when you be here near I ; but when you be away , live your life , which I do not understand ... '
she turn away from he and , manage at last to disentangle her hook , with the aid of her forefinger begin to draw the stitch of white wool , shine in the lamplight , through each other , the delicate wrist move rapidly and nervously within her embroider cuff .
' well , and what happen ? where do you meet Alexis Alexandrovich ? ' she suddenly ask , her voice ring unnaturally .
' I knock up against he in the doorway . '
' and he bow like this to you ? '
she draw up her face , half close her eye and quickly change the expression of her face , fold her hand ; and Vronsky see at once upon her beautiful face the very look with which Karenin have bow to he .
he smile , and she laugh merrily , with that delightful laughter from the chest which be one of her special charm .
' I can not at all understand he , ' say Vronsky . ' have he after your explanation in the country break with you , have he challenge I , yes ! but this sort of thing I do not understand . how can he put up with such a position ? he suffer , that be evident . '
' he ? ' she say , sarcastically . ' he be perfectly content . '
' why be we all torment each other when everything might be so comfortable ? '
' but not he !
as if I do not know he , and the falsehood with which he be saturate ! ...
as if it be possible for anyone to live as he be live with I !
he understand and feel nothing .
could a man who have any feeling live in the same house with his guilty wife ?
could he talk to she and call she by her christian name ? '
and without meaning to , she again mimic he : ' Ma chère Anna ; my dear ! '
' he be not a man , not a human being . he be ... a doll !
no one else know it , but I do .
oh , if I be he , I should long since have kill , have tear in piece , a wife such as I , and not have call she " Ma chère Anna . "
he be not a man but an official machine .
he do not understand that I be your wife , that he be a stranger , a superfluous.-.- . but do not let we talk about he . '
' you be unjust , unjust , my dear , ' say Vronsky , try to pacify she . ' but still , do not let we talk about he .
tell I what you have be do ?
what be the matter with you ?
what be that illness of your ? what do the doctor say ? '
she look at he with quizzical joy .
she have evidently remember other comical and unpleasant side of her husband 's character and wait for an opportunity to mention they .
' I expect it be not illness at all , but only your condition .
when be it to be ? '
the mock light in her eye fade , but a smile of a different kind – the knowledge of something unknown to he , and gentle sadness – replace the former expression of her face .
' soon , soon .
you be say that our position be full of torment and should be put an end to .
if you only know how hard it be on I ! what would I not give to be able to love you freely and boldly !
I should not be torture , I would not torment you with my jealousy ...
it will happen soon , but not in the way you think . '
and at the thought of how it be go to happen she feel so sorry for herself that the tear come into her eye and she could not continue .
she lay her hand , sparkle with ring and the whiteness of the skin , on his sleeve .
' it will not happen as we think .
I do not want to tell you , but you make I do it .
soon , very soon , everything will get disentangle and we shall be able to rest and not torment each other any more . '
' I do not understand , ' he say , though he do understand .
' you be ask when ?
soon , and I shall not survive it .
do not interrupt , ' she say hurriedly . ' I shall die and I be very glad that I shall die : I shall find deliverance and deliver you . '
the tear run down her cheek , he stoop over her hand and begin kiss it , try to hide the emotion which he know to be groundless but could not master .
' that be right , that be well , ' she say , firmly press his hand . ' this be all , all that remain to we . '
he recover and lift his head .
' what rubbish , what senseless rubbish you be talk ! '
' no , it be not ! it be true . '
' what be true ? '
' that I be go to die ; I have have a dream . '
' a dream ? ' Vronsky instantly remember the peasant of his dream .
' yes , a dream , ' she say . ' I dream it a long time ago .
I think I have run into my bedroom , that I have to fetch or find out something there : you know how it happen in dream , ' and her eye dilate with horror . ' and in the bedroom there be something stand in the corner . '
' oh , what nonsense !
how can one believe ? ... '
but she would not allow he to stop she .
what she be say be of too much importance to she .
' and that something turn round , and I see it be a peasant with a rough beard , small and dreadful .
I want to run away , but he stoop over a sack and be fumble about in it ... '
she show how he fumble in the sack : her face be full of horror .
and Vronsky , remember his dream , feel the same horror fill his soul .
' he fumble about and mutter french word , so quickly , so quickly , and with a burr , you know : " Il faut le battre , le fer : le broyer , le pétrir ... "
[ it must be beat , the iron : pound it , knead it . ]
and in my horror I try to wake , but I wake still in a dream and begin ask myself what it could mean , and Korney say to I : " you will die in childbed , in childbed , ma'am ... "
then I wake . '
' what nonsense , what nonsense ! ' say Vronsky , but he feel that there be no conviction in his voice .
' well , do not let we talk about it .
re the bell , I will order tea .
but wait , it will not be long and I ... '
but suddenly she stop .
the expression of her face change instantaneously .
the horror and agitation be replace by an expression of quiet , serious , and blissful attention .
he could not understand the meaning of this change .
she have feel a new life quicken within she .
KARENIN after meeting VRONSKY in his own porch go on as have be his intention to the Italian Opera .
he sit through the first two act and see everybody that it be necessary for he to see .
on his return home he carefully look at the coat - stand , and notice that no military coat hang there he go to his study as usual ; contrary to his habit , however , he do not go to bed but walk up and down the room till three in the morning .
the feeling of anger with his wife , who would not observe the rule of propriety and fulfil the only condition he have insist on , that is , that she should not see her lover in his house , give he no rest .
she have not fulfil his condition and he be oblige to punish she and carry out his threat : to divorce she and take away her son .
he know the difficulty connect with such a step : but he have say he would do it and be now oblige to do it .
the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have hint to he that that be the good way to get out of the situation , and he know that of late the practice of divorce have be bring to such a state of perfection that he see a possibility of overcome the formal difficulty .
besides , misfortune never come singly , and the affair of the subject race and the irrigation of the Zaraysk Province have cause Karenin so much unpleasantness in his official capacity that he have of late feel extremely irritable .
he do not sleep at all , and his wrath , increase in a kind of gigantic progression , have reach its utmost limit by the morning .
he dress in haste , and as if he be carry a cup brimful of wrath and be afraid of spill any and of lose with his anger the energy he need for an explanation with his wife , he go to her room as soon as he know that she be up .
Anna , who think that she know her husband so well , be strike by his appearance when he enter .
his brow be knit , and his eye , gloomily fix before he , avoid look at she ; his lip be firmly and contemptuously closed .
in his step , his movement , and the sound of his voice be such determination and firmness as his wife have never know in he .
he enter her boudoir and without say ' good morning ! ' go straight to her writing - table , take up her key , and open the drawer .
' what do you want ? ' she exclaim .
' your lover 's letter . '
' they be not there , ' she say , close the drawer ; but this action prove to he that he have guess rightly , and rudely push away her hand he quickly draw out a letter - case in which he know that she keep she most important paper .
she wish to snatch away the letter - case , but he thrust she aside .
' sit down ! I must speak to you , ' he say , take the letter - case under his arm and press it so tight with his elbow that his shoulder go up .
astonish and abash , she silently look at he .
' I tell you that I would not allow you to see your lover here . '
' I want to see he in order ... '
she pause , unable to invent a reason .
' I do not go into particular of why a woman want to see her lover . '
' I want , I only want ... ' she say , flush .
his coarseness irritate she and give her boldness . ' be it possible you do not feel how easy it be for you to insult I ? ' she say .
' it be possible to insult an honest man or an honest woman , but to tell a thief that he be a thief be only la constatation d'un fait . ' [ the statement of a fact . ]
' I have not see this new trait of cruelty in you before . '
' you call it cruelty when a husband give his wife complete freedom while he afford her honourable shelter , on the one condition that she should observe the law of propriety .
be that cruelty ? '
' it be bad than cruelty , it be – baseness , if you want to know ! ' Anna exclaim in a burst of anger , and rise to go .
' no ! ' he shout in his squeaky voice , which now rise to a high note than usual , and seize she so tightly by the wrist with his large finger that the bracelet he press leave red mark , he force she back into her seat .
' Baseness ?
since you wish to use that word – it be baseness to abandon a husband and a son for a lover and to go on eat the husband 's bread ! '
her head drop .
she do not say what she have say to her lover the day before , that Vronsky be her real husband and that he ( Karenin ) be superfluous , she do not even think it .
she feel all the justice of his word and only say softly :
' you can not describe my position as be bad than I know it to be , but why do you tell I all this ? '
' why do I tell you ? why ! ' he go on just as angrily , ' that you should know that as you have not fulfil my wish that propriety should be observe , I shall take step to put an end to this situation . '
' soon , very soon , it will come to an end of itself ! ' she mutter , and at the thought of the nearness of death , which she now desire , tear again fill her eye .
' it will end soon than you and your lover imagine !
you want to satisfy animal passion ... '
' Alexis Alexandrovich !
this be not only ungenerous , but not even gentlemanly – to hit one who be down . '
' that be all very well , but you think only of yourself ! the suffering of the man who be your husband do not interest you . what do you care that his whole life be wreck and how much he have suf … suf … suffle ! '
Karenin be speak so rapidly that he blunder and could not pronounce the word , and at last say suffled .
that strike she as funny ; but immediately after she feel ashamed that anything could seem funny to she at such a moment .
and for the first time she feel for he and put herself for an instant in his place , and be sorry for he .
but what could she say or do ?
she bow her head in silence .
he too be silent for a while and then again begin in a less squeaky voice , coldly emphasize certain chance word that have no special importance .
' I come to tell you ... ' say he .
she look up at he .
' no , it be an illusion , ' she think , call to mind the expression of his face when he blunder over the word suffled . ' no !
' I can not change anything , ' she whisper .
' I have come to tell you that I be go to Moscow tomorrow and shall not return to this house again , and that you will hear my decision through the lawyer whom I shall employ in the divorce suit .
my son will stay with my sister , ' say Karenin , make an effort to remember what he have want to say about his son .
' you want Serezha in order to hurt I , ' she say , look at he from under her brow . ' you do not care for he ...
leave I Serezha ! '
" yes , I have even lose my affection for my son , because he be connect with my repulsion for you . but all the same I shall take he away .
good - bye ! '
and he be about to go , but now she stop he .
' Alexis Alexandrovich ! leave I Serezha ! ' she whisper again .
' that be all I have to say : leave I Serezha till my ...
I shall soon be confine , leave he ! '
Karenin flush , and pull away his hand leave the room .
the famous petersburg LAWYER 's waiting - room be full when Karenin enter it .
three woman : an old lady a young lady , and a tradesman 's wife ; and three gentleman : one a german banker with a ring on his finger , another a bearded merchant , and the third an irate official in uniform with an order hang from his neck , have evidently long be wait .
two clerk sit at their table writing , and the sound of their pen be audible .
the writing - table accessory ( of which Karenin be a connoisseur ) be unusually good , as he could not help notice .
one of the clerk , without rise from his chair , screw up his eye and address Karenin ill - humouredly .
' what do you want ? '
' I want to see the lawyer on business . '
' the lawyer be engage , ' reply the assistant sternly , and indicate with his pen the person who be wait .
' can he not find time to see I ? ' say Karenin .
' he have no spare time , he be always busy .
be so kind as to wait . '
' then I will trouble you to give he my card , ' say Karenin with dignity , see the impossibility of preserve his incognito .
the assistant take the card and , though he evidently do not approve of what he read on it , go out of the room .
Karenin approve in theory of public trial , but for certain high official reason he do not quite sympathize with some aspect of its application in Russia , and he condemn these application as far as he could condemn anything that have be confirm by the Emperor .
his whole life have be spend in administrative activity , and therefore when he disapprove of anything his disapproval be mitigate by a recognition of the inevitability of mistake and the possibility of improvement in everything .
in the new legal institution he disapprove of the position occupy by lawyer .
but till now he have never have to deal with a lawyer and so have disapprove only in theory ; now his disapproval be strengthen by the unpleasant impression he receive in the lawyer 's waiting - room .
' he will be here in a moment , ' say the assistant , and in fact , a minute or two later , in the doorway appear the long figure of an elderly jurisconsult who have be confer with the lawyer , follow by the lawyer himself .
the lawyer be a short , thick - set , bald - headed man , with a black beard tinge with red , long light - coloured eyebrow , and a bulge forehead : he be as spruce as a bridegroom , from his white necktie and double watch - chain to his patent leather boot .
his face be intelligent and peasant - like , but his dress be dandified and in bad taste .
' come in , please ! ' say the lawyer to Karenin , and gloomily usher his client in before he , he close the door .
' will not you take a seat ? ' he point to a chair beside a writing - table cover with paper , and himself take the principal seat , rub his little hand with their short finger cover with white hair and bend his head to one side .
but hardly have he settle down when a moth fly across the table .
the lawyer , with a rapidity one could not have expect of he , separate his hand , catch the moth , and resume his former position .
' before I begin speak of my case , ' say Karenin , who have follow the lawyer 's movement with astonishment , ' I must mention that the business about which I have to speak to you must be strictly private . '
a scarcely perceptible smile move the lawyer 's droop reddish moustache .
' I should not be a lawyer if I could not keep the secret entrust to I !
but if you would like a confirmation ... '
Karenin glance at he and see that his intelligent grey eye be laugh , as if he know everything in advance .
' you know my name ? ' continue Karenin .
' I know you and , like every Russian , I know – ' here he again catch a moth – ' your useful activity , ' say the lawyer bow .
Karenin sigh , collect his courage , but having once make up his mind he go on in his squeaky voice without timidity or hesitation , emphasize a word here and there .
' I have the misfortune , ' begin Karenin , ' to be a deceive husband , and I wish legally to break off relation with my wife – that is , to be divorce , but in such a way that my son should not remain with his mother . '
the lawyer 's grey eye try not to laugh but they dance with irrepressible glee , and Karenin see that it be not only the glee of a man get profitable business ; there be triumph and delight , and a gleam resemble the evil - boding gleam he have see in his wife 's eye .
' you want my assistance to obtain a divorce ? '
' just so ! but I must warn you that there be a risk that I may be waste your time .
I have come only for a preliminary consultation .
I wish for a divorce , but the form in which it can be obtain be of importance to I .
it be quite possible that if the form do not coincide with my requirement I shall forgo my legitimate desire . '
' oh , that be always so , ' say the lawyer , ' that be always open to you . '
the lawyer look down at Karenin 's foot , feel that the sight of his irrepressible joy might offend his client .
he glance at a moth that fly past his nose and his hand move , but do not catch it , out of respect for Karenin 's situation .
' although the general outline of our law relate to this matter be know to I , ' continue Karenin , ' I should like to know the form in which such case be conduct in practice . '
' you wish I to state , ' the lawyer say , still not raise his eye and adopt , with a certain pleasure his client 's manner of speech , ' the various method by which your desire can be carry out ? '
and on Karenin 's nod affirmatively the lawyer continue , only occasionally cast a glance at Karenin 's face , which have grow red in patch .
' divorce , under our law , ' he say , with a slight shade of disapproval of the law , ' as you be aware , may be grant in the follow case ...
you must wait ! ' he exclaim , address his assistant who have look in at the door ; but he rise all the same , speak a few word to his assistant , and sit down again . ' in the follow case : physical defect in husband or wife , five year ' absence without news ' – and he bend one of his short hairy finger – ' and in case of adultery , ' he utter the word with evident pleasure .
' these be subdivide as follow , ' and he go on bend down his thick finger , though the case and the subdivision evidently could not be class together , ' physical defect in husband or in wife , and adultery of husband or of wife . ' as all his finger have be use he straighten they all out and continue : ' that be the theoretical view ; but I suppose you have do I the honour of apply to I in order to learn the practical application of the law .
therefore , guide by the precedent , I have to inform you that case of divorce all come to the following : – there be , I suppose , no physical defect or absence without news ? ... '
Karenin nod affirmatively .
' - come to the follow : adultery of husband or wife and the detection of the guilty party by mutual consent , or involuntary detection without such consent .
I must add that the latter case be seldom meet with in practice , ' and with a momentary glance at Karenin the lawyer become suddenly silent , like a man who when sell pistol have describe the advantage of the different kind , and wait for his customer 's decision .
but Karenin remain silent , and so he begin again : ' the most usual , simple , and reasonable way I consider to be adultery by mutual consent .
I should not venture so to express myself be I talk to a man of undeveloped mind , ' say the lawyer , ' but I expect it be comprehensible to you . '
Karenin be , however , so much upset that he do not at once understand the reasonableness of adultery by mutual consent and his perplexity be express in his look ; but the lawyer immediately help he .
' two people can no long live together – there be the fact . and if both agree about that , the detail and formality become unimportant , and at the same time it be the simple and sure method . '
Karenin quite understand now .
but he have religious requirement which hinder his acceptance of this method .
' it be out of the question in the present case , ' say he . ' only one measure be possible : involuntary detection confirm by letter which I have . '
at the mention of letter the lawyer press his lip together and give vent to a high - pitch sound of pity and contempt .
' please remember that case of this kind , as you know , be decide by the Ecclesiastical Department , and the reverend Fathers in such case be keenly interested in the minutest detail , ' he say , with a smile that show his fellow - feeling with the reverend Fathers ' taste . ' letter may certainly serve as a partial confirmation , but direct evidence from witness must be produce .
in general , if you do I the honour to entrust the case to I , leave I to choose the mean which should be use .
he who desire a result accept the mean of obtain it . '
' if it be so ... ' Karenin begin , grow suddenly pale ; but at that moment the other suddenly rise and go to the door to speak to his assistant , who have again come to interrupt he .
' tell she we have not get a cheap sale on here ! ' he say and come back again .
as he be return he furtively catch another moth .
' a fine state my furniture will be in when summer come ! ' he think , and frown .
' yes , you be say ... ' he begin
' I will write and let you know what I decide , ' say Karenin , rise and hold on by the table .
after a short pause he say , ' I may conclude from your word that a divorce could be obtain .
I would also ask you to let I know your term ? '
' it be quite possible ; if you allow I full liberty of action , ' say the lawyer , without take any notice of the last question . ' when may I expect to hear from you ? ' he add , move toward the door , his eye and patent leather boot shine .
' in a week 's time .
and you will be so good as to let I know whether you be willing to undertake the case , and on what term . '
' very well . '
the lawyer bow deferentially , let his client pass out , and be leave alone abandon himself to his happy mood .
he feel so cheerful that , contrary to his custom , he allow a reduction to the bargaining lady and give up catch moth , having make up his mind to have his furniture re - cover next winter with velvet , like Sigonin 's .
KARENIN have gain a brilliant victory at the Committee Meeting of the seventeenth of August ; but the consequence of that victory undermine his power .
the new committee for investigate the condition of the subject - race from every point of view have be form and send to its field of action with unusual promptitude and energy , stir up by Karenin .
three month later the committee send in its report .
the subject - race ' condition have be investigate from the political , administrative , economic , ethnographical , material , and religious point of view .
all the question have receive splendidly - draft answer : answer not open to doubt since they be not the result of human thought ( always liable to error ) , but be the outcome of official labour .
all the answer be base on official datum : report from Governors and Bishops , base on report from district authority and ecclesiastical superintendent , base in their turn on report from rural administrative officer and parish priest ; therefore these answer could not admit of any doubt .
all the question as to why they have bad harvest , for instance , or why the native keep to their own creed and so on , question which without the convenience of the official machine do not get solve and can not get solve for century , have receive clear and certain solution .
and the solution arrive at be in accord with Karenin 's opinion .
but Stremov , who have be touch to the quick at the last meeting , make use of tactic for which Karenin be not prepared .
Stremov suddenly change over to Karenin 's side , bring several other member in his train , and not only warmly support the measure advocate by Karenin , but propose other more extreme measure of the same nature .
these measure , go beyond Karenin 's original idea , be accept , and then Stremov 's tactic become manifest .
the measure , carry to extreme , prove so stupid that person in office , public opinion , intellectual woman , and the Press , all at the same moment fall upon they , express indignation at the measure themselves , and at Karenin , their acknowledge originator .
Stremov stand aside , pretend to have blindly follow Karenin 's plan and to be himself indignant now at what have be do , thus undermine Karenin .
but , in spite of fail health and family trouble , Karenin do not give in .
there be a split in the Committee .
some of the member , with Stremov at their head , excuse their mistake by maintain that they have put their faith in the report present by the Revisory Committee direct by Karenin ; and say that that Committee 's report be nonsense and nothing but waste paper .
Karenin and a number of other see danger in so revolutionary an attitude toward official document and continue to support the datum present by the Committee .
in consequence , the high circle and even Society become quite confused and , though everybody be deeply interested in the question , no one could make out whether the subject - race be really suffer and perish or be flourish .
Karenin 's position , partly in consequence of this and partly from the contempt that fall on he as a result of his wife 's infidelity , become very shaky .
in these circumstance he take an important resolution .
he announce , to the surprise of the Committee , that he would ask to be allow to go and investigate the matter himself , and having receive permission he start for the distant Provinces .
Karenin 's departure be much talk about , especially because just before start he formally return the post - fare sufficient to pay for twelve horse all the way to his destination , which have be advanced to he .
' I consider it very fine of he , ' the Princess Betsy say , refer to it in a conversation with Princess Myagkaya . ' why should they pay for post - horse when everybody know that we now have railway everywhere ? '
but the Princess Myagkaya do not agree , and be even irritated by Princess Tverskaya 's view .
' it be all very well for you to talk who possess I do not know how many million , ' she say . ' but I be very glad when my husband go on inspection - tour in summer .
it be very good for his health , and pleasant for he ; and we have an arrangement by which this allowance go for the hire of a carriage and coachman for I . '
on his way to the distant Province Karenin stop three day in Moscow .
on the day after his arrival he go to call on the Governor - General .
at the crossing of Gazetny Street , where there be always a crowd of carriage and izvoshchiks , he suddenly hear some one call out his name in such a loud and cheerful voice that he could not help look round .
on the pavement at the corner of the street , in a short fashionable overcoat and a small fashionable hat , his tooth gleam between his smile red lip , young , gay , and beaming , stand Oblonsky , determinedly and insistently shout and demand that Karenin should stop .
he be hold with one hand the window of a carriage ( from which the head of a lady in a velvet bonnet and two little child 's head be lean out ) and be smilingly beckon with his other hand to his brother - in - law .
the lady too with a kind smile wave her hand to Karenin .
the lady with the child be dolly .
Karenin do not wish to see anyone in Moscow , and certainly not his wife 's brother .
he raise his hat and be go on , but Oblonsky tell the coachman to stop and run across the snow .
' what a shame not to have send word !
be here long ? and I go into Dusseaux 's hotel yesterday and see " Karenin " on the board , and it never enter my head that it could be you ! ' say Oblonsky , thrust his head in at the carriage window , ' else I should have look you up .
I be so glad to see you ! ' and he kick his foot together to knock off the snow . ' what a shame not to send word ! '
' I could not find time : I be very busy , ' Karenin answer drily .
' come and speak to my wife ; she be so anxious to see you . '
Karenin unfold the rug he have wrap round his leg , which be so sensitive to the cold , get out of the carriage , and make his way through the snow approach Dolly .
' what be the matter , Alexis Alexandrovich ? why do you avoid we in this way ? ' dolly smilingly ask .
' I be exceedingly busy !
very pleased to see you , ' he say in a tone that express clearly that he be very sorry . ' how be you ? '
' and how be my dear Anna ? '
Karenin mutter something and be about to go , when Oblonsky stop he .
' D'you know what we will do to - morrow ?
dolly , ask he to come and dine with we !
we shall invite Koznyshev and Pestsov , so as to let he taste the Moscow intellectual . '
' yes , do come ! ' say Dolly . ' we shall expect you at five or six , just as you like .
but how be my dear Anna ?
it be so long ... '
' she be well , ' reply Karenin , frown . ' I shall be very pleased , ' and he go back to his carriage .
' then you will come ? ' cry Dolly .
Karenin mutter something which Dolly could not catch amid the noise of pass vehicle .
' I shall call to - morrow ! ' shout Oblonsky to he .
Karenin get into his carriage and sit far back , so as neither to see nor to be see .
' Queer chap ! ' say Oblonsky to his wife , and after glance at his watch wave his hand in front of his face as a sign of endearment to his wife and child , and walk jauntily away along the pavement .
' Steve , Steve ! '
dolly call , and blush .
he turn round .
' you know that I must buy coat for Grisha and Tanya .
give I some money . '
' never mind ! tell they I will pay ! ' and nod his head to an acquaintance who be drive past he disappear round the corner .
the NEXT DAY be SUNDAY .
Oblonsky go to the rehearsal of a ballet at the Imperial Theatre and give to Masha Chibisova – a pretty dancer , who through his patronage have just obtain an engagement – a coral necklace he have promise she the evening before ; and behind the scene , in the midday darkness of the theatre , contrive to kiss her pretty face , which be brighten by his present .
besides give she the necklace he wish to make an appointment to meet she after the ballet .
having explain that he could not be there at the beginning of the performance , he promise to come for the last act , and take she to supper .
from the theatre Oblonsky go to the market , and himself select the fish and asparagus for dinner ; and at noon he be already at Dusseaux 's Hotel , where he have to call on three people who , fortunately for he , have all put up at the same place . these be : Levin , who have only just return from abroad ; a newly - appoint superior official who be make a tour of inspection in Moscow ; and Karenin , his brother - in - law , whom he want to secure for dinner .
Oblonsky like a good dinner , but like still more give a dinner - party : not a big affair , but one select in food , drink , and guest .
with the programme for that day 's dinner he be very satisfied ; there would be perch ( bring alive to the kitchen ) and asparagus , the piece le resistance be to consist of a splendid but quite plain joint of roast beef , and the wine would be well choose : so much for the food and drink .
as for the guest , there would be Kitty and Levin , and , in order that they should not be too conspicuous , a girl cousin and young Shcherbatsky – here the pièce de résistance be to consist of Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev and Alexis Alexandrovich Karenin : Sergius Ivanich , a Muscovite and a philosopher , and Alexis Alexandrovich , a Petersburger and a practical politician .
besides these he mean to ask the well - know crank and enthusiast Pestsov , a Liberal and a great talker , a musician and historian , and the dear of fifty - year - old boy , who would serve as sauce or condiment to Koznyshev and Karenin – while he himself , Oblonsky , would stir they all up and set they by the ear .
the second instalment of the forest money have be pay and be not yet all spend . Dolly have be very nice and kind of late , and the thought of his dinner - party please Oblonsky in every respect .
he be in very high spirit .
just two circumstance be not quite satisfactory , but they be drown in the ocean of kind - hearted joviality which overflow his heart .
these two circumstance be as follow . from the fact that when he have meet Karenin in the street the previous day the latter have treat he with cold stiffness , and have not call or even inform they of his arrival – from this , add to the rumour about Anna and Vronsky that have reach he , Oblonsky conclude that all be not as it should be between the husband and wife .
this be one of the unpleasant thing , while the other be the fact that his new superior , like all new superior , have the reputation of be a dreadful man who get up at six in the morning , work like a horse , and expect his subordinate to do the same .
this superior also have the reputation of have the manner of a bear , and he be report to hold view diametrically oppose to those of his predecessor and , till now , of Oblonsky also .
on the previous day Oblonsky have appear on service business in uniform ; the new superior be very pleasant and chat with he as with an old acquaintance ; therefore Oblonsky now consider it his duty to call on he in a morning coat .
the thought that the new superior might not take this in good part be the second unpleasant circumstance , but Oblonsky feel instinctively that everything would ' turn out ' splendidly .
' after all , they be all human being , all man , just like we poor sinner , ' he think , as he enter the hotel . ' what be there to be angry and quarrel about ? '
walk down the corridor with his hat tilt on one side , he say , ' how do you do , Vassily ? ' to a servant he know .
' you 've grow whisker !
Levin – number seven , eh ?
will you show I the way ? and please find out whether Count Anichkin ' ( the new superior ) ' will receive I . '
' yes , sir , ' reply vassily with a smile .
' it be a long time since you 've be here . '
' I be here yesterday , but come by the other entrance . be this number seven ? ' Levin be stand in the middle of the room beside a peasant from Tver , measure a fresh bearskin with a yard measure , when Oblonsky enter .
' ah ! kill it ? ' cry Oblonsky .
' fine thing !
a she - bear ? how d'you do , Arkhip ? '
he shake hand with the peasant and sit down without take off his overcoat or hat .
' do take your thing off and stay , ' say Levin , remove the hat .
' no , I have no time . I 've only come in for a moment , ' reply Oblonsky , throw open his coat .
later on he take it off and stay for an hour , talk to Levin about bear - hunting and also about personal matter .
' now please tell I what you do abroad , and where you have be , ' say Oblonsky , when the peasant have leave .
' well , I stay in Germany , in Prussia , in France , and in England – not in the capital but in manufacturing centre .
I 've see many new thing and be glad I go . '
' yes , I know your idea of settle the work - class problem . '
' not at all ! in Russia there can not be a working - class problem .
in Russia the question turn on the relation between the labourer and the land . they have the same problem there , but with they it be a case of patch up what have already be spoilt – while here ... '
Oblonsky listen to Levin with attention .
' yes , yes , ' he say , ' very likely you be right . but I be glad you be in good spirit and go bear - hunting and work , and be full of enthusiasm , because Shcherbatsky tell I he meet you and you be down in the mouth , and keep talk about death ... '
' well , what of that ? I never stop think of death , ' say Levin .
' it really be time for I to die .
all those thing be mere nonsense . I will tell you frankly : I value my idea and my work immensely , but really ...
just think ! this whole world of our be only a speck of mildew spring up on a tiny planet ; yet we think we can have something great – thought , action !
they be all but grain of sand ! '
' but , my dear fellow , all that be as old as the hill . '
' it be old ... but , do you know , when you have once grasp it clearly , everything become so insignificant !
if you once realize that to - morrow , if not to - day , you will die and nothing will be leave of you , everything become insignificant !
I consider my idea very important , yet they too turn out to be insignificant – and would be , even if it be as possible to carry they out as it be to surround this bear .
and so one pass one 's life find distraction in hunting or in work , merely not to think of death . '
Oblonsky listen to Levin with an affectionate and subtle smile .
' well , of course !
so now you have come round to my notion .
do you remember how you use to fly at I for seek enjoyment in life ?
do not be so severe , o moralist ! ... '
' but of course the good in life be ... ' Levin become confused .
' oh , I do not know . all I know be , that we shall all die soon . '
' why soon ? '
' and do you know , life have less charm when one think of death , but it be more peaceful . '
' on the contrary , it be even bright toward the end !
however , I must be go , ' return Oblonsky , rise for the tenth time .
' do not go yet ! ' say Levin , try to detain he . ' when shall we meet again ?
I be leave to - morrow . '
' well , I be a good one !
why , I come on purpose ...
you must come and dine with we to - day .
your brother be come , and my brother - in - law , Karenin . '
' be he here ? ' ask Levin , and be go to inquire about Kitty .
he have hear that she go to Petersburg at the beginning of the winter to visit her sister , who have marry a diplomatist . he do not know whether she have return , but change his mind and think : ' whether she come or not will make no difference . '
' then you will come ? '
' yes , of course . '
' well , then , at five , and in morning dress ! '
and Oblonsky get up and go downstairs to call on the new superior .
his instinct have not deceive he ; the dreadful new superior turn out to be a most affable man . Oblonsky have lunch with he and sit talk so long that it be go on for four when he arrive at Karenin 's .
KARENIN , after return from CHURCH , spend the rest of the morning in the hotel .
that day he have two matter to see to : to interview a deputation from a subject - race which be in Moscow at that time , and give they instruction , and to write to the lawyer as he have promise .
the interview , though the deputation have be summon on his initiative , be an affair that present many difficulty and even danger , and Karenin be very glad that it chance to be in Moscow when he be there .
the member of the deputation have not the least comprehension of their role or of their duty .
they be naively convince that their business consist in explain their need and the exist state of affair , and of ask for help from the government . they could decidedly not understand that some of their statement and demand would play into the hand of the hostile party , and thereby ruin their case .
Karenin have a prolong tussle with they , and write out for they a programme which they be not to overstep , and having dismiss they he write two letter to Petersburg .
one of they contain instruction regard this deputation .
in this matter his chief helper be the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , who be a specialist in deputation .
no one else could so well pilot a deputation or give it a good start .
when he have finish with the deputation Karenin write to the lawyer , without the least hesitation give he permission to act at his own discretion , and enclose three note from Vronsky to Anna which he have find in the writing - case he have take possession of .
having leave his home with the intention of never return to his family , and having see the lawyer and communicate – though only to that one person – this intention , and particularly after convert this matter of life into an affair of ink and paper , Karenin have grow more and more used to the notion ; so that carry it into effect now seem to he possible .
he be just close his letter to the lawyer when he hear Oblonsky 's voice .
Oblonsky be dispute with Karenin 's servant , and insist that he should be announce .
' no matter ! ' think Karenin , ' it be even well so . I will tell he about my position with regard to his sister at once , and will explain why I can not dine at his house . '
' ask the gentleman in ! ' he say in a loud voice , collect his paper and place they inside a blotter .
' there , you see , you be lie to I ! he be at home ! ' come the voice of Oblonsky in answer to the man who have be try to stop he , as he enter , the room , take off his overcoat as he come .
' I be awfully glad I have find you in ! well , I hope ... ' begin Oblonsky , cheerfully .
' I can not come , ' Karenin , who be stand , say coldly , without offer his visitor a seat .
Karenin have expect to enter at once upon the cool relation in which he would henceforth stand toward the brother of the wife against whom he be begin divorce proceeding ; but he have not count upon the flood of kindliness which overflow the bank of Oblonsky 's soul .
Oblonsky open his clear and shine eye wide .
' why can not you ?
what do you mean ? ' he demand in French , quite take aback .
' oh no , you have promise and we be reckon on you . '
' I must tell you that I can not come because the family connection hitherto subsist between we must now be sever . '
I mean , how ?
why ? ' say Oblonsky , smile .
' because I be about to take proceeding to divorce your sister , my wife .
I be oblige to ... '
but before Karenin could finish what he be about to say , Oblonsky do something quite unexpected .
he utter an exclamation of dismay and sit down in an easy - chair .
' dear I , Alexis Alexandrovich ! what be you talk about ? ' he cry , a look of pain appear on his face .
' it be true . '
' forgive I , but I can not – I can not believe it ... '
Karenin sit down , conscious that his word have not the effect he have anticipate , that he would be oblige to give an explanation , and that whatever that explanation might be , it would not alter his relation to his brother - in - law .
' yes , I be under the painful necessity of apply for a divorce , ' he continue .
' I will tell you just one thing , Alexis Alexandrovich !
I know you to be a first - rate and a just man ; I know Anna to be – excuse I ! I can not change my opinion of she – a fine , a splendid woman ; and therefore forgive I , but I can not believe this .
there must be some misunderstanding ! ' say Oblonsky .
' ah , if it be only a misunderstanding ! ... '
' wait a moment – I understand , ' Oblonsky interrupt he . ' but of course ... only this : one should not be in a hurry . no ! one should not , should not be in a hurry . '
' I be not in a hurry , ' reply Karenin , coldly . ' in a case like this it be impossible to consult anyone .
I have quite make up my mind . '
' but it be awful ! ' say Oblonsky , sigh deeply . ' one thing I would do , Alexis Alexandrovich , if I be you – I entreat you to do it !
you have not yet commence proceeding , as I understand ?
well , before do so , see my wife and talk it over with she !
she care for Anna as for a sister , she be fond of you , and she be a wonderful woman .
for heaven 's sake , talk it over with she !
do I this favour , I entreat you ! '
Karenin consider , and for a while Oblonsky gaze at he , full of sympathy , without break the silence .
' you will come and see she ? '
' I hardly know .
the reason I do not call on you be that I think our relationship must be alter . '
' why ?
I do not see it .
allow I to believe that beside our family relationship , you share at least to some extent the friendly feeling I have always have for you ... and sincere respect , ' add Oblonsky , press the other 's hand . ' even if your bad suspicion prove correct , I never take upon myself , and never will , to judge either side ; and I see no reason why our relation should change .
but do , now do come and see my wife ! '
' ah , we look at the matter differently , ' say Karenin , coldly . ' however , do not let we talk about it . '
' but why will not you come ?
supposing you come to dinner to - day ?
my wife expect you .
do come , and above all , do talk it over with she .
she be a wonderful woman .
for heaven 's sake – I implore you on my bend knee ! '
' if you wish it so much , I will come , ' say Karenin with a sigh , and anxious to change the subject he inquire about a matter interesting to they both – Oblonsky 's new superior , a man who , though still young , have suddenly be give so important a post .
Karenin have never like Count Anichkin , their opinion have always be at variance , and now he could not repress a feeling of spite , quite comprehensible to anyone in an official position , toward a more successful man .
' well , and have you see he ? ' say Karenin with a venomous smile .
' oh yes , he come to the Council yesterday .
he seem to know his business perfectly and be very active . '
' yes , but in what direction ? ' ask Karenin . ' Toward get thing do , or toward change what have be do already ?
the curse of our State be its red - tape administration , of which he be a worthy representative . '
' I really do not know what his tendency be , but I do know that he be a first - rate fellow , ' reply Oblonsky . ' I have just be to see he , and he really be a first - rate chap .
we have lunch , and I show he how to make that stuff – you know – wine with orange .
it be very refreshing , and it be amazing that he do not know of it .
he like it very much .
yes , he certainly be a first - rate chap . '
Oblonsky look at his watch .
' dear I , it be get on for five and I have still to call on Dolgovushin ! ...
well , then , do please come to dinner !
you have no idea how grieve I and my wife will be if you do not . '
Karenin part from his brother - in - law in a very different manner to that in which he have meet he .
' I have promise , and I will come , ' he answer in a dejected tone .
' believe I , I appreciate it and hope that you will not repent it , ' Oblonsky reply , smile .
as he put on his overcoat while walk away , his arm strike the servant 's head . he laugh and go out .
' five o'clock , and morning dress , if you please ! ' he sing out , return to the door .
it be past five , and some of the visitor have already arrive , when the master of the house come home .
he enter together with Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev and Pestsov , who have meet on the doorstep .
those two be the chief representative of the Moscow intellectual , as Oblonsky call they .
both be man respect for their character and ability .
they respect one another , but in almost everything they be completely and hopelessly at variance , not because they belong to different school of thought but just because they belong to one camp ( their enemy confuse they one with the other ) , and in that camp each of they have his own shade .
and as there be nothing less amenable to agreement than disagreement on semi - abstract theme , they not only disagree in their opinion but have long be accustom without anger to ridicule each other 's incorrigible delusion .
they be enter when Oblonsky overtake they , and be talk about the weather .
Prince Alexander Dmitrich Shcherbatsky , and young Shcherbatsky , Turovtsyn , Kitty , and Karenin be already in the drawing - room .
Oblonsky notice at once that , without he , thing be go badly in the drawing - room .
his wife in her gala dress , a grey silk , evidently worried both about the child who would have to dine alone in the nursery and about her husband who have not return , have not manage in his absence to mix the guest properly .
they all sit like ' a parish priest 's wife visit ' ( as the old Prince Shcherbatsky express it ) , evidently puzzle as to why they be all assemble there , and force out word in order not to remain silent .
the good - natured Turovtsyn clearly feel quite out of it , and the smile on his thick lip , with which he meet Oblonsky say as clearly as word , ' well , my friend , you have plant I among the clever one !
to have a drink at the Chateau des Fleurs would be more in my line . '
the old Prince sit silent , his shine eye look askance at Karenin , and Oblonsky see that he have already prepare some remark wherewith to polish off that dignitary of State , whom people be invite to as to a dish of sturgeon .
Kitty keep look toward the door , gather courage not to blush when Constantine Levin should enter .
Young Shcherbatsky , who have not be introduce to Karenin , try to look as if this do not make he feel at all awkward .
Karenin himself , as the Petersburg way be when one dine with lady , be in evening dress with a white tie , and Oblonsky see by his face that he have come only to keep his promise , and by be in that company be fulfil an unpleasant duty .
he be the chief cause of the iciness which have freeze all the visitor till Oblonsky 's arrival .
on enter the drawing - room Oblonsky make his excuse , explain that he have be keep by the particular Prince who be his usual scapegoat whenever he be late or absent , and in a moment he have reintroduce everybody , and having bring Karenin and Koznyshev together , he start they off on the subject of the Russification of Poland , and they immediately catch on , Pestsov join they .
having pat Turovtsyn on the shoulder , he whisper something funny in his ear and get he to sit down next to Dolly and the old Prince .
then he tell Kitty that she be look very nice , and introduce young Shcherbatsky to Karenin .
in a moment he have knead all that Society dough in such a way that the drawing - room be in first - rate form , and be fill with animate voice .
only Constantine Levin have not arrive .
however , that be all for the good , for Oblonsky , on look in at the dining - room , see to his horror that the port - wine and sherry be from Depres and not from Levé and having give order to send the coachman as quickly as possible to Levé he turn to go back to the drawing - room .
but he meet Levin at the door .
' I be not late ? '
' as if you ever could help be late ! ' say Oblonsky take his hand .
' be there many people here ?
whom have you get ? ' ask Levin with a blush , knock the snow off his cap with his glove .
' all our own people .
Kitty be here .
come , I will introduce you to Karenin . '
Oblonsky , in spite of be liberal , know that to be acquaint with Karenin could not but be an honour , and therefore treat his good friend to that honour .
but at that moment Constantine Levin be not in a state fully to appreciate the pleasure of such an acquaintance .
he have not see Kitty since the memorable evening when he have meet Vronsky , except for that one moment when he have catch sight of she on the high road .
in the depth of his soul he have feel sure that he should meet she that evening , but to maintain his freedom of thought he have try to assure himself that he do not know it .
now , when he hear that she be here , he be suddenly fill with such joy and at the same time with such fear , that it take away his breath and he could not utter what he wish to say .
' what be she like ?
the same as before , or as she be that morning in the carriage ?
what if Darya Alexandrovna have speak the truth ?
why should it not be true ? ' he think .
' oh , do introduce I to Karenin ! ' he bring out with difficulty , and with despair determination he enter the drawing - room and see she .
she be not as she have be before nor as he have see she in the carriage . she be quite different .
she be frightened , shy , shamefaced , and therefore even more charming .
she see he as soon as he enter . she have be wait for he .
she be fill with joy , and that joy make she feel so confused that for a moment when , as he be approach the hostess , he again glance at she , Kitty herself , he , and Dolly all think she would not be able to control herself but would burst into tear .
she blush , grow pale , then blush again , and quite rigid , with only her lip quiver slightly , sat wait for he .
he come up , bow , and silently hold out his hand .
have it not be for the light quiver of her lip and the moisture that make her eye bright , her smile would have appear almost calm when she say :
' what a long time it be since we see one another ! ' while with a desperate resolve her cold hand press his .
' you have not see I but I see you , ' say Levin with a beam smile of joy . ' I see you on your way to Ergushevo from the station . '
' when ? ' she ask he with surprise .
' you be drive to Ergushevo , ' say Levin , feel that the happiness with which his heart be overflow be take his breath away .
' how do I dare to connect anything that be not innocent with this pathetic being !
yes , what Darya Alexandrovna tell I seem to be true , ' he think .
Oblonsky take his arm and lead he up to Karenin .
' let I introduce you , ' and he give their name .
' very pleased to meet you again , ' say Karenin coldly , as he shake hand with Levin .
' be you acquaint ? ' ask Oblonsky with surprise .
' we spend three hour together in a railway carriage , ' say Levin with a smile , ' but we part fill with curiosity , as people do after a masquerade , at any rate I do . '
if you please , ' say Oblonsky , motion they toward the dining - room .
the man go to the side - table in the dining - room , on which stand bottle with six kind of vodka and plate with as many sort of cheese with and without silver cheese - knife , caviar , herring , different kind of tin delicacy , and slice of french roll .
they stand round the scented vodka and the delicacy , and the conversation about the Russification of Poland between Koznyshev , Karenin , and Pestsov gradually slacken in the expectation of dinner .
Koznyshev , who know well than anyone how at the end of a most abstract and serious dispute unexpectedly to administer a grain of attic salt and thereby to change his interlocutor 's frame of mind , do so now .
Karenin be argue that the Russification of Poland could only be accomplish by high principle which the Russian Administration must introduce .
Pestsov insist that one nation can assimilate another only when the former be more densely populated .
Koznyshev agree with both , but with limitation .
when they have leave the drawing - room Koznyshev , to finish the conversation , remark with a smile .
' consequently for the Russification of the alien nationality , there be but one mean : to breed as many child as possible ...
so my brother and I be act bad of all , and you marry gentleman , and especially Stephen Arkadyevich , be act most patriotically . how many have you get ? ' he ask , turn to the host with a kindly smile and hold out a tiny wine - glass to be fill .
everybody laugh , and Oblonsky most merrily of all .
' yes , that be the very good way , ' he say , chew some cheese and fill the glass with a special kind of vodka . and the conversation be really end by the joke .
' this cheese be not bad . may I help you to some ? ' ask the host .
' have you really be do gymnastic again ? ' he go on turn to Levin , and with his left hand he feel Levin 's muscle . Levin smile , tighten his arm , and under Oblonsky 's finger a lump like a dutch cheese and hard as steel bulge out beneath the fine cloth of Levin 's coat .
' here be a bicep !
a real Samson ! '
' I expect great strength be need for bear - hunting , ' say Karenin , who have the vague notion about sport , as he help himself to cheese and break his slice of bread , cut as fine as a cobweb .
Levin smile .
' none at all .
on the contrary a child can kill a bear , ' he say , make room , with a slight bow , for the lady who be come up to the side - table with the hostess .
' you have kill a bear , I hear ? ' say Kitty , vainly try to catch a wayward , slippery pickled mushroom with her fork , and so shake the lace of her sleeve through which her arm gleam white . ' have you any bear near your estate ? ' she add , turn her lovely little head toward he and smile .
there be , it would seem , nothing unusual in what she have say , but for he what a meaning there be , inexpressible in word , in every sound and every movement of her lip , her eye , and her hand as she say it !
there be a prayer for forgiveness , and trust in he , and a caress – a tender , timid caress , and a promise , and hope , and love for he in which he could not but believe and which suffocate he with joy .
' no , we go to the Tver Province .
on my return journey I meet your brother - in - law , or rather your brother - in - law 's brother - in - law , on the train , ' he say smile . ' it be a funny meeting . '
and gaily and amusingly he tell how after not sleep all night he , in his sheep - skin coat , have rush into Karenin 's compartment .
' the guard ( regardless of the proverb ) [ the proverb be : ' at meeting you be judge by your clothe , at part you be judge by your wit . ' ] judge I by my clothe and wish to turn I out , but I begin to use long word and ... you too , ' he go on turn to Karenin ( whose christian name and patronymic he have forget ) , ' judge I by my peasant coat be go to turn I out , but afterwards you take my part , for which I be very grateful . '
' the right of passenger to a choice of seat be very ill - define , ' say Karenin , wipe the tip of his finger on his handkerchief .
' I notice that you be not quite sure what to make of I , ' say Levin with a good - natured smile , ' so I hasten to start an intellectual conversation , to expiate my sheep - skin . '
Koznyshev , while continue his conversation with the hostess , listen with one ear to his brother , turn his eye toward he , and think , ' what have happen to he to - day ?
he behave like a conqueror . '
he do not know that Levin feel as if he have grow a pair of wing .
Levin know that she be listen to his word and like hear he , and that be the only thing he care about .
not only in that room but in the whole world there exist for he nothing but Kitty and himself , and he have now acquire a great significance and importance .
he feel himself at a height that make he giddy , and there , somewhere far below , be all these good excellent karenin , Oblonskys , and the rest of the world .
quite casually , without look at they and just as if there be no other place to put they , Oblonsky place Levin and Kitty side by side .
' well , you might sit here , ' he say to Levin .
the dinner be as good as the dinner service , a thing of which Oblonsky be a connoisseur .
the soup , Marie Louise , have succeed to perfection , the tiny pasty melt in one 's mouth and be flawless .
two footman and Matthew , wear white tie , manipulate the food and the wine unostentatiously , quietly , and quickly .
the dinner be a success on the material side , and no less so on the non - material side .
the conversation , sometimes general and sometimes tête - à - tête , never cease , and toward the end become so animate that the man leave the table without cease to talk , and even Karenin be infect .
PESTSOV liked to bring his discussion to a finish , and have not be satisfied with Koznyshev 's remark , especially as he feel the fallacy of his own opinion .
' I do not mean , ' he begin over his soup , address Karenin , ' the density of population alone , but that combine with firm foundation . it be not principle that count . '
' it seem to I , ' reply Karenin deliberately and languidly , ' that it be one and the same thing .
in my opinion only that nation which be more highly develop can influence another , only that ... '
' but the question be , ' interrupt Pestsov in his deep voice – he be always in a hurry to speak and always seem to stake his whole soul on what he be talk about – ' what do " high development " consist of ?
the English , the French , or the Germans , which of they be more highly develop ?
which will nationalize the other ?
we see that the Rhine have become Frenchified , yet the Germans do not stand on a low level ! ' he shout . ' there be some other law ! '
' I think that the influence will always be on the side of the truly educate , ' say Karenin slightly raise his eyebrow .
' but what should we consider to be the sign of " true education " ? ' say Pestsov .
' I fancy that those sign be well know , ' reply Karenin .
' be they fully know ? ' intervene Koznyshev with a subtle smile . ' at present a purely classical education be regard as the only real education , but we hear lively discussion from both side and can not deny that the opposite view have many argument in its favour . '
' you be a classic , Sergius Ivanich !
have a glass of claret ? ' say Oblonsky .
' I be not express my opinion of either kind of education , ' reply Koznyshev , smile at he condescendingly as at a child and hold out his glass . ' all I say be that both side have weighty argument in their favour , ' he continue address himself to Karenin .
' I have have a classical education , but can personally find no place in that controversy . I see no clear proof that a classical education should be prefer to a modern education . '
' natural science have just as great an educational and mind - develop influence , ' Pestsov join in . ' take astronomy , take botany , or zoology with its system of general law ! '
' I can not quite agree with you , ' answer Karenin . ' it seem to I that we must admit that the process of study the form of a language have in itself a beneficial effect on spiritual development .
besides it be impossible to deny that the influence of the classic be in the high degree a moral one , whereas unfortunately with instruction in natural science be connect those dangerous and false teaching which be the bane of the present time . '
Koznyshev be go to say something but Pestsov 's deep bass interrupt he .
he begin with great warmth to prove the falseness of this opinion .
Koznyshev quietly wait to put in his word , evidently ready with triumphant retort .
' but one can not help admit , ' he say with his subtle smile , turn to Karenin , ' one can not help admit that it be difficult to weigh exactly all the pro and con of the different study , and that the question , which kind of education should be prefer , would not have be so easily decide have there not be on the side of classical education that advantage which you have just mention : the moral advantage , dison le mot – the anti - nihilistic influence . '
' exactly . '
' be it not for the advantage of this anti - nihilistic influence on the side of classical education we should have consider the question long , and should have weigh the argument on both side , ' say Koznyshev , subtly smile . ' we should have give a free field to both system .
but now we know that those classical education - pill contain the salutary virtue of anti - nihilism and we offer they boldly to our patient ...
but suppose it have not that salutary virtue after all ? ' he conclude , add the grain of attic salt .
everybody laugh at Koznyshev 's ' pill , ' and Turovtsyn , who have at last hear the something funny for which he have be wait as he listen to the conversation , laugh particularly loudly and merrily .
Oblonsky have make no mistake in invite Pestsov .
with Pestsov there , intellectual conversation could not stop for a moment .
hardly have Koznyshev with his joke put an end to the discussion of one question before Pestsov immediately raise another .
' one can not even admit that the Government have that aim in view , ' he say .
' the Government be evidently guide by general consideration and be indifferent to the influence its measure may have .
for instance , it ought to consider the education of woman injurious , yet it establish course of lecture and university for woman . '
and the conversation at once veer to a new subject – the education of woman .
Karenin express the view that the high education of woman be generally confound with the question of woman 's emancipation , and that be the only reason for consider it injurious .
' I , on the contrary , think that these two question be firmly bind together , ' say Pestsov . ' it be a vicious circle .
woman be deprive of right because of their lack of education , and their lack of education result from their lack of right .
we must not forget that the subjection of woman be so widespread and so old that we often refuse to recognize the abyss that separate they from we . '
' you say " right " , ' remark Koznyshev , who have be wait for Pestsov to stop , ' the right of serve on a jury , on Town Councils , of be president of Local Government Boards , civil servant , Members of Parliament ... ? '
' undoubtedly . '
' but if woman , in some rare exceptional case , can fill these post , it seem to I that you should not speak of " right . "
it would be more correct to say " duty . "
everybody will agree that when we fill the office of juryman , town councillor , or telegraph clerk , we feel that we be fulfil a duty .
so it would be more correct to say that woman be seek for duty , and quite rightly .
and we must sympathize with this desire of other to help in man 's work for the community . '
' you be quite right , ' say Karenin . ' I think the only question be whether they be capable of fulfil these duty . '
' in all probability they will be extremely capable , ' interject Oblonsky , ' when education be more widely diffuse among they .
we see this ... '
' and how about the old proverb ? ' remark the old Prince , who have long be listen to the conversation with a humorous twinkle in his small glitter eye . ' my daughter will not mind my mention it . woman 's hair be long , but their wit ... ' [ the russian proverb run : ' woman 's hair be long , but her wit be short . ' ]
' they think the same of the negro before their emancipation , ' say Pestsov angrily .
' the thing that seem strange to I be that woman should look for new duty , ' say Koznyshev , ' while , as we see , man unfortunately generally avoid theirs . '
' duty be connect with right , power , money , honour : that be what woman be seek , ' say Pestsov .
' it be just as if I be to strive for the right of be a wet nurse , and be offend because they pay woman for it and will not pay I , ' say the old Prince .
Turovtsyn burst into loud laughter , and Koznyshev feel sorry he have not make that remark himself .
even Karenin smile .
' yes , but a man can not be a wet nurse , ' say Pestsov , ' while a woman ... '
' oh yes , an Englishman on board ship do once nurse his baby , ' say the old Prince , allow himself this indelicacy in his daughter ' presence .
' there will be about as many woman official as there be of such englishman , ' say Koznyshev .
' yes , but what be a girl to do if she have no home ? ' say Oblonsky , agree with Pestsov and support he , and thinking of the dancer Chibisova , whom he have in his mind all the time .
' if you look carefully into that girl 's story , you would find that she have leave her family or a sister 's family , where she might have do woman 's work , ' say Dolly , irritably and unexpectedly intervene in the conversation . she probably guess what girl her husband have in his mind .
' but we be defend a principle , an ideal ! ' say Pestsov in his sonorous bass . ' woman wish to have the right to be independent and educate .
they be hamper and oppress by the consciousness that this be impossible for they . '
' and I be hamper and oppress by the knowledge that they will not take I as a wet - nurse in the Foundlings ' Hospital , ' repeat the old Prince , to the great joy of Turovtsyn , who laugh till he drop the thick end of a piece of asparagus into the sauce .
everybody take PART in the general conversation except Kitty and Levin .
at first when the influence of one nation on another be be talk about , thought of what he have to say on the subject involuntarily come into Levin 's mind ; but these thought , formerly so important to he , now only flicker through his mind as in a dream and be not of the slight interest .
it even strike he as strange that they should care to talk about thing that could make no difference to anyone .
in the same way what be be say about the right of the education of woman should have interest Kitty .
how often she have think about that question when she remember her friend abroad and the irksome state of dependence in which Varenka live , how often she have wonder what would be her own fate if she do not get marry , and how many time she have argue about it with her sister .
but now it do not interest she at all .
she and Levin be carry on their own separate conversation , and it be not even a conversation but a kind of mystic intercourse , which every moment bind they close and close and create in both a feeling of joyful fear before the unknown upon which they be enter .
they begin by Levin 's tell Kitty in answer to her question of how he could have see she in the carriage in the summer , how he be go back from the hay field along the high road and meet she .
' it be early in the morning .
I expect you have only just wake up .
your mother be asleep in her corner .
it be a lovely morning .
I be go along and wonder who that could be in a four - horse coach , a splendid team with bell , and for an instant you appear and I see you at the window sit like this , hold the string of your cap with both hand and think very deeply about something , ' he say and smile . ' how I wish I know what you be think about !
something important ? '
' be I not very untidy ? ' she think , but see the rapturous smile which the recollection of these detail evoke she feel that the impression she have produce be a very pleasing one .
she blush and laugh joyously .
' I really do not remember . ' ' how pleasantly Turovtsyn laugh ! ' say Levin , look with pleasure at his moist eye and shake body .
' have you know he long ? ' ask Kitty .
' who do not know he ? '
' I see you think he be a bad man . '
' not bad , but a mere cipher . '
' he be not .
change your opinion quickly , ' say Kitty . ' I too do not think much of he , but he be ... he be a dear fellow and wonderfully kind - hearted .
he have a heart of gold . '
' how do you manage to find out his heart ? ' ' he and I be great friend .
I know he very well .
last winter soon after ... soon after you come to we , ' she say with a penitent and at the same time a trustful smile , ' Dolly 's child all have scarlet fever and he happen to call .
and fancy ! ' she go on in a whisper , ' he be so sorry for she that he stop and help she to nurse the child .
really , he stay three week in the house and look after the child like a nurse . '
' I be tell Constantine Dmitrich about Turovtsyn and the scarlet fever , ' she say , lean over toward her sister .
' yes ? it be wonderful ! he be splendid ! ' say Dolly , look toward Turovtsyn who feel that he be be talk about , and give he a gentle smile .
Levin look at Turovtsyn again and wonder how it be he have fail to realize what a charming man he be .
' I be sorry , very sorry . I shall never again think ill of anyone ! ' he say merrily ; express what he sincerely feel at the moment .
in the conversation which have be begin on the right of woman there be raise some question not freely to be discuss in the presence of lady concern the inequality of marriage relation .
Pestsov more than once during dinner - time fly at these question , but Koznyshev and Oblonsky carefully divert he from they .
when they rise from table and the lady have leave the room , Pestsov do not follow they but turn to Karenin and begin to state the chief cause of inequality .
the inequality between husband and wife , in his opinion , lie in the fact that the infidelity of a wife and that of a husband be unequally punish both by law and by public opinion .
Oblonsky hurriedly offer Karenin a cigar .
' no , I do not smoke , ' quietly reply Karenin , and , as if wish to show that he be not afraid of the conversation , he turn with a cold smile to Pestsov .
' I imagine that the cause of the prevail opinion lie in the very nature of thing , ' he say , and be about to go to the drawing - room , but Turovtsyn quite unexpectedly address he .
' have you hear about Pryachnikov ? ' say Turovtsyn , animate by the champagne he have drunk , and impatient to break his silence , which have long oppress he . and with a kindly smile on his moist and rosy lip , he go on address himself chiefly to Karenin , the principal guest . ' Vasya Pryachnikov , as I be tell to - day , have fight a duel with Kvitsky and kill he . '
as one always seem to knock a sore place , so that day Oblonsky feel that unfortunately the conversation keep strike Karenin 's sore place .
he again make an attempt to draw his brother - in - law away , but Karenin himself ask with interest :
' what do Pryachnikov fight about ? '
' his wife .
he behave like a brick !
challenge the other and kill he ! '
' oh ! ' say Karenin indifferently , and raise his eyebrow he go to the drawing - room .
' I be so glad you come , ' say Dolly with a frightened smile , as she meet he in the sitting - room through which he have to pass : ' I must speak with you .
let we sit down here . '
Karenin , with the same look of indifference , produce by his raise eyebrow , sit down beside she and feign a smile .
' yes , ' he say , ' especially as I wish to ask you to excuse I for have to go away at once .
I be leave Moscow to - morrow . '
dolly be firmly convinced of Anna 's innocence , and feel herself grow pale and her lip tremble from anger with this cold , unfeeling man who so calmly intend to ruin her innocent friend .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , ' she say , look into his eye with desperate determination . ' I ask you about Anna and you do not give I an answer .
how be she ? '
' I think she be well , Darya Alexandrovna , ' reply Karenin without look at she .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , forgive I , I have no right to ... but I love Anna like a sister , and respect she and I beg , I implore you to tell I what have happen between you , what do you accuse she of ? '
Alexis Alexandrovich wince , and almost close his eye bow his head .
' I expect your husband have tell you the reason which make I consider it necessary to change my former relation with Anna Arkadyevna , ' he say without look in her eye , discontentedly eye Shcherbatsky who be pass through the sitting - room .
' I do not , I do not believe it , I can not believe it ! ' dolly say , clasp her bony hand with an energetic movement .
she rise quickly , put her hand on Karenin 's sleeve and say , ' we shall be disturb here , come this way , please . '
Dolly 's excitement affect Karenin .
he rise and obediently follow she into the schoolroom .
they sit down at the table cover with leather cloth all cut about with penknife .
' I do not believe it , I do not ! ' she utter , try to catch his eye , which avoid hers .
' one can not disbelieve fact , Darya Alexandrovna , ' say he , emphasize the word fact .
' but what have she do ? ' ask Darya Alexandrovna . ' what be it she have do ? '
' she have despise her duty and betray her husband .
that be what she have do , ' he say .
' no , no , it can not be !
no , for God 's sake ! ... you be mistaken , ' say Dolly , raise her hand to her temple and close her eye .
Karenin smile coldly with his lip only , wish to prove to she and to himself the firmness of his conviction ; but this passionate defence , though it do not shake he , lacerate his wound .
he begin speak with more animation .
' it be difficult to make a mistake when a wife herself announce to her husband that eight year of married life and a son have all be an error , and that she want to begin life from the beginning again , ' he say crossly , sniff .
' Anna and – vice ... I can not combine they , I can not believe it ! '
' Darya Alexandrovna , ' he say , now look straight at Dolly 's kind , excited face and feel his tongue involuntarily loosen . ' I would give much for the possibility of doubt .
while I be in doubt it be hard , but not so hard as it be now .
while I doubt , I have hope ; but now there be no hope leave and all the same I doubt everything .
I doubt everything so much that I hate my son , and sometimes believe he be not my son .
I be very unhappy . '
there be no need for he to say this .
Dolly have understand it as soon as he look she in the face . she feel sorry for he , and her faith in her friend 's innocence be shake .
' oh , it be terrible , terrible !
but can it be true that you have decide on a divorce ? '
' I have decide to take the final step .
there be nothing else for I to do . '
' nothing to do , nothing to do ! ' she mutter with tear in her eye . ' no , there be something else to do , ' she say .
' that be just what be so terrible in this kind of grief , that you can not do as in all other trouble – loss or death – just bear your cross , but here you must act , ' he say , as if guess her thought . ' you must come out of the degrading position in which you be place ; it be impossible to live three together . '
' I understand , I understand very well , ' say Dolly and her head drop .
she be silent , think of herself and her own sorrow , and then suddenly and energetically she raise her head and fold her hand as in prayer . ' but wait !
you be a Christian .
think of she !
what will become of she if you throw she off ? '
' I have think , Darya Alexandrovna , and have think deeply , ' say Karenin .
his face flush in blotch and his dim eye look straight at she .
dolly now pity he with all her heart . ' I do that very thing when she herself inform I of my shame ; I let everything go on as before .
I give she a chance to turn over a new leaf , and I try to save she .
with what result ?
she disregard my very easy demand – that she should observe the propriety , ' he go on , getting heat . ' one may save a person who do not wish to perish ; but if a nature be so spoilt and deprave that it regard ruin as salvation , what can one do ? '
' anything but divorce ! ' answer Dolly .
' but what be " anything " ? '
' no , this be too awful .
she will be nobody 's wife , she will be ruin . '
' what can I do ? ' say Karenin , shrug his shoulder and raise his eyebrow .
the recollection of his wife 's last delinquency irritate he so much that he again become as cold as he have be at the beginning of the conversation . ' I be very grateful for your sympathy , but it be time for I to go , ' he said rise .
' no , wait a bit !
you should not ruin she .
wait a bit . I will tell you about myself .
I marry , and my husband deceive I ; in my anger and jealousy I wish to abandon everything , I myself wish ...
but I be bring to my sense , and by whom ?
Anna save I .
and here I be live ; my child grow , my husband return to the family and feel his error , grow purer and well , and I live ...
I have forgive , and you must forgive . '
Karenin listen , but her word no long affect he .
all the bitterness of the day when he decide on a divorce rise again in his soul .
he give himself a shake and begin to speak in a loud and pierce voice .
' I can not forgive ; I do not wish to and do not think it would be right .
I have do everything for that woman and she have trample everything in the mud which be natural to she .
I be not a cruel man , I have never hate anyone , but I hate she with the whole strength of my soul and I can not even forgive she , because I hate she so much for all the wrong she have do I ! ' he say with tear of anger choke he .
' love those that hate you ... ' whisper dolly shamefacedly .
Karenin smile contemptuously .
he have long know all that , but it could not apply to his case .
' love they that hate you , but you can not love they whom you hate .
forgive I for having upset you .
every one have trouble enough of his own ! ' and having get himself under control , Karenin quietly rise , say good - bye , and go away .
when everybody be leave the table Levin want to follow Kitty into the drawing - room but be afraid she would not like it because it would make his attention to she too obvious .
so he stop with the group of man , take part in their conversation . but without look through the open door at Kitty he be conscious of her movement , her look , and the place in the drawing - room where she sit .
he begin at once , and without the slight effort , to fulfil the promise he have make she , of think well of and always like everybody .
the conversation have turn to the question of village commune , in which Pestsov see some special principle which he call the ' chorus principle . '
Levin do not agree either with Pestsov or with his brother Sergius , who , in a way of his own , both admit and do not admit the importance of the Russian Communal System .
but he talk to they only with the idea of get they to agree and soften their controversy .
he be not at all interested in what he himself say , still less in what they be say , and only desire one thing – that everybody should feel contented and pleased .
he now know the one thing that be important .
and that one thing be at first there in the drawing - room , but afterwards begin move and pause in the doorway .
without look round he feel a pair of eye and a smile direct toward he , and he could not help turn .
she stand in the doorway with Shcherbatsky and be look at he .
' I think you be go to the piano , ' he say , move toward she . ' that be what I miss in the country – music . '
' no , we be only come to call you away . thank you for come , ' she say , reward he with a smile as with a gift .
' what be the use of arguing ?
no one ever convince another . '
' yes , you be quite right , ' say Levin , ' for the most part , people argue so warmly only because they can not make out what it be that their opponent want to prove . '
Levin have often notice in argument among the most intelligent people that after expend enormous effort and an immense number of logical subtlety and word , the disputant at last become conscious of the fact that the thing they have be at such pain to prove to one another have long ago , from the very beginning of the controversy , be know to they , but that they like different thing and be disinclined to mention what they like lest it should be attack .
he have experience the fact that sometimes in the middle of a discussion one understand what it be that one 's opponent like , and suddenly like it oneself , and immediately agree with he , when all proof become superfluous and unnecessary . sometimes the reverse happen ; one at last mention the thing one like , for the sake of which one have be devise argument , and if this be say well and sincerely , one 's opponent suddenly agree and cease to dispute .
this be what he want to express .
she wrinkle her forehead , try to understand .
but as soon as he begin to explain she understand .
' I see : one must find out what one 's opponent be contend for , what he like , and then one can ... '
she have completely grasp and find the right expression for his badly - express thought .
Levin smile joyfully : he be so strike by the change from the confused wordy dispute with his brother and Pestsov to this laconic , clear , and almost wordless communication of a very complex idea .
Shcherbatsky leave they , and Kitty go up to a table prepare for card , sit down , take a piece of chalk , and begin draw concentric circle on the new green cloth of the table .
they go back to the conversation at dinner about woman 's right and occupation .
Levin agree with Dolly , that a girl who do not get married can find woman 's work in the family .
he support this view by say that no family can dispense with a help , and that in every family , rich or poor , there be and must be nurse , either pay or belong to the family .
' no , ' say Kitty , blushing , but look all the more boldly at he with her truthful eye : ' a girl may be so place that she can not enter into a family without humiliation , while she herself ... '
he understand the allusion .
' oh yes ! ' he say , ' yes , yes , yes , you be right , you be right ! '
and he understand all that Pestsov at dinner have be try to prove about the freedom of woman , simply because he see in Kitty 's heart fear of the humiliation of be an old maid , and , love she , he too feel that fear and humiliation , and at once give up his contention .
there be a pause .
she still continue draw on the table with the chalk .
her eye shine with a soft light .
submit to her mood , he feel in his whole be an ever - increase stress of joy .
' oh , I have scribble over the whole table ! ' she say , and put down the chalk move as if to get up .
' how can I remain here alone , without she ? ' he think horror - strike , and take up the chalk . ' do not go , ' he say and sit down at the table . ' I have long wish to ask you something ! '
he look straight into her kind though frightened eye .
' please do . '
' there , ' he say , and write the follow letter , – W , y , a : i , c , n , b ; d , y , m , t , o , n ?
these letter stand for : when you answer : it can not be ; do you mean then or never ?
it be quite unlikely that she would be able to make out this complicated sentence ; but he look at she with an expression as if his life depend on her understanding what those letter mean .
she glance seriously at he and then , lean her frown forehead on her hand , begin read .
occasionally she look up at he , her look ask he : ' be it what I think ? '
' I have understand , ' she say with a blush .
' what word be this ? ' he ask point to the ' n ' which stand for never .
' that word be never , ' she say , ' but it be not true . '
he quickly rub out what he have write , hand she the chalk , and rise .
she write : T , I , c , n , a , o.
Dolly 's sorrow , cause by her talk with Karenin , be quite dispel when she see those two figure : Kitty with the chalk in her hand , look up at Levin with a timid , happy smile , and his fine figure bend over the table , with his burn eye fix now on the table , now on she .
suddenly his face beam – he have understand .
the letter mean ' then I could not answer otherwise . '
he look at she questioningly , and timidly .
' only then ? '
' yes , ' answer her smile .
' and n ...
and now ? ' he say .
' well , then , read this .
I will tell you what I wish , what I very much wish ! ' and she write these initial letter : T , y , m , f , a , f , w , h.
this mean , ' that you might forgive and forget what happen . '
he seize the chalk with nervous , tremble finger , break it , and write the initial letter of the following : ' I have nothing to forget or forgive , I never cease to love you . '
she look at he with a smile that remained fix on her lip .
' I understand , ' she whisper .
he sit down and write out a long sentence .
she understand it all , and without ask if she be right , take the chalk , and write the answer at once .
for a long time he could not make out what she mean and he often look up in her eye .
he be daze with happiness .
he could not find the word she mean at all ; but in her beautiful eye , radiant with joy , he see all that he want to know .
and he write down three letter .
but before he have finish write she read it under his hand , finish the sentence herself , and write the answer : ' yes . '
' play " secretary " ? ' say the old Prince approach they . ' come now , we must be go , if you mean to come to the theatre . '
Levin rise and accompany Kitty to the door .
everything have be say in that conversation . she have say that she love he , and would tell her father and mother , and he have say that he would call in the morning .
when KITTY have LEFT and Levin remain alone he feel so restless without she and so impatient to live more and more quickly through the hour till morning when he would see she again and be united to she for good , that he dread like death the fourteen hour he would have to spend without she .
in order not to be alone and to deceive time , he need to be with and to talk to somebody .
Oblonsky would have be the pleasantest companion for he now , but he be go to an evening party as he say ( really to the ballet ) .
Levin only have time to tell he he be happy and fond of he and would never , never forget what he have do for he .
Oblonsky 's look and smile show Levin that he understand he rightly .
' then it be not time to die yet ? ' ask Oblonsky with feeling , press Levin 's hand .
' N - n - n - oo ! ' say Levin .
dolly too , when say good - bye to he , speak as if congratulate he , say : ' I be so glad you and Kitty have meet again .
we must value old friendship . ' Levin do not like her remark .
she do not understand how high and unattainable for she all this be , and she should not have dare to refer to it .
Levin take leave of they but , not to remain alone , he fasten on to his brother .
' where be you go ? '
' to a Town Council meeting . '
' well , I will come with you .
may I ? '
' why not ? let we go , ' answer Koznyshev , smile . ' what have happen to you to - day ? '
' to I ?
happiness be with I , ' say Levin , let down the window of the carriage in which they be drive . ' you do not mind ?
it be so stuffy here .
happiness be with I : why have you never got marry ? '
' I be very glad , she seem a fine gi ... ' he begin .
' do not , do not , do not speak ! ' exclaim Levin , seize the collar of his brother 's fur - coat and lap it over his face .
' she be a fine girl ' be word so ordinary , so insignificant , so inappropriate to his feeling .
Koznyshev laugh merrily , a thing he rarely do . ' anyhow I may say I be very glad . '
' you may say that to - morrow , to - morrow , but nothing more !
nothing , nothing , silence ... ' say Levin , and again wrap the collar round his brother 's face he add : ' I be very fond of you !
will they really let I in to the meeting ? '
' of course you can come . '
' what be you speak on to - night ? ' ask Levin not cease to smile .
they arrive at the Council , and Levin listen to the secretary haltingly read an official report which he evidently do not understand himself , but from his face Levin see what a nice , kind , and splendid fellow he be .
that be plain from the confused and embarrassed manner in which he read the report .
then follow the discussion .
they be debate the grant of some money and the laying of some pipe , and Koznyshev speak about something for a long time in a triumphant tone and sting two of the member ; another member , having note something on a bit of paper , start timidly , but go on to answer he very venomously and neatly .
and then Sviyazhsky ( he too be there ) also say something very finely and nobly .
Levin listen to they and clearly see that neither the sum of money nor the pipe have any real existence , there be nothing of the kind and he see also that they be not at all angry but be all very kind and estimable fellow , and that it be all very good and pleasant .
they be do no one any harm , and everybody be pleased .
what seem remarkable to Levin be that they be all perfectly transparent to he that day , and that by mean of little sign which he have never notice before he recognize the soul of each and clearly see that they be all kind and , in particular , be all extremely fond of he .
that be quite evident from the way they speak to he , and the tenderness and affection with which they all , even stranger , look at he
' well , be you content ? ' ask Koznyshev .
' quite .
I never think it would be so interesting .
fine ! splendid ! '
Sviyazhsky come up and ask Levin to come home with he and have some tea .
Levin could not at all think or remember why he have ever feel dissatisfied with Sviyazhsky or what he have think lack in he .
he be an intelligent and remarkably kind fellow .
' I shall be very pleased , ' say Levin , and ask about Sviyazhsky 's wife and sister - in - law .
and by a strange connection of idea , as that sister - in - law be connect in his fancy with the idea of marriage , it appear to he that he could not tell anybody of his happiness so appropriately as Sviyazhsky 's wife and sister - in - law , and he be very glad to go and see they .
Sviyazhsky question he about his affair in the country , as usual disbelieve in the possibility of devise anything that have not already be discover in Western Europe ; but now Levin do not consider this at all unpleasant .
on the contrary he feel that Sviyazhsky be right , and that the whole business be insignificant , and he notice the wonderful gentleness and delicacy with which Sviyazhsky avoid say that he be right .
the lady be especially nice ; it seem to Levin that they already know all about it and sympathize with he but do not mention it out of delicacy .
he remain at the house two or three hour , talk about different matter but think only of the one thing that fill his soul and not notice that they be dreadfully weary of he and ought long ago to have be in bed .
sviyazhsky , yawning , show he to the hall and wonder at the strange state his friend be in .
it be past one .
Levin return to the hotel and the thought of how with his impatience he would spend the remain ten hour frighten he .
the attendant on duty light his candle and be go away , but Levin stop he .
Egor , the attendant , of whom Levin have take no notice heretofore , turn out to be a very intelligent , good , and above all very kind man .
' I say , Egor , do not you find it difficult to keep awake ? '
' what be one to do ?
our work be of that sort .
it be easy in a gentleman 's house , but one earn more here . '
it turn out that Egor have a family , three boy and a girl who be a seamstress and whom he want to marry to an assistant in a harness business .
Levin take this opportunity to express to Egor his opinion that in marriage the chief thing be – love , and that when there be love there will always be happiness because happiness lie always within oneself .
Egor listen very attentively and evidently quite understood Levin , but in confirmation of it remark , quite unexpectedly to Levin , that when he be in the service of nice people he be always satisfied with his master and that he be satisfied with his present master although he be a Frenchman .
' a wonderfully kind man ! ' think Levin .
' and you , Egor , when you marry , do you love your wife ? '
' how can one help it ? ' answer Egor .
and Levin see that Egor too be in an exultant state and wish to tell he all his most intimate feeling .
' my life too be very curious .
from a child I ... ' he begin with shine eye , evidently infect by Levin 's exultation as man get infect by other ' yawning .
but at that moment a bell ring , Egor go away and Levin remain alone .
he have scarcely eat anything at dinner and have refuse both tea and supper at Sviyazhsky 's , but could not think of eat .
he have not sleep the night before but could not think of sleep either .
the room be cool , but he feel suffocate with heat .
he open the little window [ the fortochka , or small inset window customary in Russia , which allow of fresh air be let into the room in winter without cool it too much . ] and sit down on a table in front of it . beyond a snow - cover roof he could see a gilt fretwork cross adorn with chain on the dome of a church and above it the three - cornered constellation of the Charioteer with the bright yellow star Capella .
he look now at the cross , now at the star , and inhale the fresh frosty air which flow with a regular current into the room , follow , as in a dream , the image and memory that arise in his fancy .
towards four o'clock he hear step in the corridor and look out .
it be the gambler Myaskin whom he know , return from the club .
he pass dejectedly , frown and coughing .
' poor , unfortunate fellow ! ' think Levin , and tear of affection and pity for the man fill his eye .
he wish to speak to he and comfort he , but recollect that he have nothing over his shirt he change his mind and again sit down in front of the little window to bathe in the cold air and to gaze at that beautifully - shape silent cross , full of meaning for he , and at the ascend bright yellow star .
when it be past six o'clock he begin to hear the floor - polisher , and the church bell ring for service , and feel he be begin to grow cold .
he shut the little window , wash , dress , and go out into the street .
the STREETS be still EMPTY .
Levin go to the Shcherbatskys ' house .
the front door be lock , everybody be still sleep .
he go back to his room in the hotel and order coffee .
the day - waiter , not Egor this time , bring it to he .
Levin wish to have a talk with he , but the bell ring and the waiter go away .
Levin try to drink a little coffee , and put a piece of roll into his mouth , but his mouth could do nothing with it .
he take the piece out of his mouth , put on his overcoat and go out to walk about again .
it be past nine when he reach the Shcherbatskys ' porch a second time .
the inmate of the house be only just up , and the cook be go out to buy provision .
it would be necessary to live through another two hour at least .
all that night and morning Levin have live quite unconsciously , and feel quite outside the condition of material existence .
he have not eat for a whole day , have not sleep for two night , have spend several hour half - dressed and expose to the frost , yet he feel not only fresher and well than ever before , but quite independent of his body : he move without his muscle make any effort , and feel capable of anything .
he be sure that he could fly upwards or knock down the corner of a house , be it necessary .
he spend the rest of the time walk about the street , look at his watch , and gaze around .
and what he then see he never see again .
two child go to school , some pigeon that fly down from the roof , and a few loaf put outside a baker 's window by an invisible hand touch he particularly .
these loaf , the pigeon , and the two boy seem creature not of this earth .
it all happen at the same time ; one of the boy run after a pigeon and look smilingly up at Levin ; the pigeon flap its wing and flutter up , glitter in the sunshine amid the snow - dust that tremble in the air ; from the window come the scent of fresh - baked bread and the loaf be put out .
all these thing be so unusually beautiful that Levin laugh and cry with joy .
after a long round , through the Gazetny Street and the Kislovka , he return to the hotel , put his watch in front of he , and sit down wait till it should be twelve .
in the next room they be say something about machine and fraud , and cough as people do of a morning .
they do not realize that the watch hand be draw near to twelve .
the hand reach twelve .
Levin go out into the porch .
the izvoshchiks evidently know all about it .
with joyful face they surround Levin , dispute among themselves , and offer he their service .
try not to offend the other , and promise to let they too drive he later on he hire one and tell he to drive to the Shcherbatskys ' .
the izvoshchik be charming with the white band of his shirt show from under his coat and cling closely to his full , red , sturdy neck .
that izvoshchik 's sledge be high and comfortable and never after do Levin drive in one like it , and the horse be a good one too and try its good to trot fast , but do not move from the place .
the izvoshchik know the Shcherbatskys ' house , and round his elbow in a manner specially respectful to his fare call ' whoa ! ' and stop at the porch .
the Shcherbatskys ' hall - porter certainly know everything .
that be evident from the smile in his eye and the tone in which he say :
' it be long since you be here last , Constantine Dmitrich ! '
not only do he know everything , but he evidently rejoice and make effort to hide his joy .
glance into his kind old eye , Levin feel something new even in his happiness .
' be they up ? '
' come in , sir !
will not you leave it here ? ' he say when Levin turn back for his cap .
that mean something .
' whom shall I announce you to ? ' ask the footman .
the footman be young , of the new - fashioned kind , and a dandy , but a very kind and good fellow , and he too understand it all .
' the Prince ...
the Princess ...
the young lady ... ' say Levin .
the first person he meet be Mlle Linon .
she be pass through the dancing - hall and her curl and her face shine .
he have scarcely begin to speak to she when he hear the rustle of a dress outside the door , his eye no long see Mlle Linon , and the joyful terror of the nearness of his happiness seize he .
Mlle Linon hurriedly leave he and go toward the other door .
as soon as she have go out he hear the sound of very , very rapid light step on the parquet floor , and his joy , his life , his own self , the good in himself , that which he have seek and yearn for so long , advanced very , very rapidly towards he .
she do not walk but be bear toward he by some invisible force .
he see nothing but her clear , true eye , frighten by the same joy of love which fill his own heart .
those eye beam near and near to he , dazzle he with their glow of love .
she stop so close that she touch he .
her arm rise and her hand drop on his shoulder .
she have do everything she could – she have run up to he and give herself entirely , shyly , and joyfully .
he put his arm round she and press his lip to her mouth that be wait for his kiss .
she too have not sleep all night and have wait for he the whole morning .
her mother and father have definitely give their consent and be happy in her happiness .
she have wait for he .
she have wish to be the first to announce to he his and her joy .
she have prepare herself to meet he alone , and have rejoice at the idea , yet have feel timid and bashful and have not know what she would do .
she have hear his step and his voice and have wait behind the door for Mlle Linon to go .
Mlle Linon have go away .
without think or ask herself what next , she have come to he and act as she have .
' come to Mama ! ' she say , take he by the hand .
for some time he could not say anything , not so much because he fear that word might spoil the loftiness of his feeling , as because every time he wish to speak he feel that , instead of word , tear of joy would come .
he take her hand and kiss it .
' can it be true ' he say at last in a smothered voice . ' dear , I can not believe that you love I . '
she smile at the word ' dear , ' and at the timid look he give she . ' yes ! ' she say significantly and slowly . ' I be so happy ! ' without let go of his hand , she enter the drawing - room .
the Princess , on see they , breathe quickly and immediately burst into tear , then she at once laugh and run up to they with energy such as Levin never expect from she , and put her arm round his head kiss he and wet his cheek with her tear .
' then it be all finish !
I be so glad .
love she .
I be so glad ...
Kitty ! '
' well , you 've settle it quickly ! ' say the old Prince , try to be indifferent , but Levin notice that his eye be moist when he address he . ' I have long , I have always wish it ! ' say the old Prince , take Levin 's hand and draw he near . ' even at the time when this scatterbrain intend ... '
' papa ! ' exclaim Kitty and close his mouth with her hand .
' well , well , I will not ! ' he say . ' I be very , very ... plea ...
oh , how stupid I be ! '
he embrace Kitty , kiss her face , her hand , then her face again , and make the sign of the cross over she .
and Levin be seize with a new feeling of affection for this man who have be strange to he before , when he see how Kitty long and tenderly kiss his fleshy hand .
the princess sat in HER ARMCHAIR silently smile , and the Prince seat himself beside she .
Kitty stand close to her father 's chair , still hold his hand .
no one speak .
the Princess be the first to break the silence and bring all their thought and feeling back to the practical side of life , and for the first moment this seem strange and even painful to they all .
' when be it to be ?
there be the betrothal , and card must be send out .
and when be the wedding to be ?
what do you think , Alexander ? '
' here he be , ' say the old Prince , point to Levin . ' he be the principal person concern . '
' when ? ' say Levin , blushing . ' to - morrow !
if you ask I – the betrothal to - day and the wedding to - morrow ! '
' oh , do not , mon cher ! what nonsense ! '
' well then , next week . '
' he seem quite mad . '
' why not ? '
' what an idea ! ' say the mother with a pleased smile at his haste . ' and the trousseau ? '
' be it possible that there must be a trousseau and all that sort of thing ? ' Levin think , horror - strike .
' however ...
as if a trousseau and a betrothal ceremony and all that could spoil my happiness ! nothing can spoil it ! '
he look up at Kitty and notice that the thought of a trousseau do not in the least upset she ; so he think , ' it be necessary , evidently . '
' well , you see , I do not know at all ; I only express my wish , ' he say , to excuse himself .
' then we will decide .
we can have the betrothal , and send out the card at once .
that will be all right . '
the Princess go up to her husband , kiss he and be about to go away , but he stop she , embrace she , and tenderly , like a young lover , kiss she several time , with a smile .
the old couple seem to have become confused for the moment , and not to know whether it be they who be again in love or only their daughter .
when they have go Levin come up to his betrothed and take her hand .
he have now master himself and be able to speak , and there be much he have to say to she ; but what he say be not at all what he have intend .
' how well I know it would happen !
I never dare hope , yet in my soul I be always certain , ' say he . ' I believe it be predestine . '
' and I , ' she say . ' even when ... ' she stop , and again go on , her truthful eye look into his face resolutely , ' even when I drive my happiness from I I always love you only , but I be carry away .
I must ask you : can you forget it ? '
' perhaps it be all for the good .
you have much to forgive I .
I must tell you ... '
he refer to one of the thing he have decide to tell she .
he mean to confess , from the first , about two matter : that he be not as pure as she , and that he be an agnostic . it be painful but he think he ought to tell she both these thing .
' no , not now , later ! ' he say .
' all right , later ; but certainly tell I !
I be afraid of nothing .
I must know everything .
now it be settle ... '
he finish the sentence .
' it be settle that you will have I , whatever I may be ... you will not reject I ...
yes ? '
' yes , yes ! '
their conversation be interrupt by Mlle Linon , who with a feign yet affectionate smile come to congratulate her favourite pupil .
before she have go out , the servant enter with their congratulation .
afterwards relative arrive , and that beatific tumult begin which do not cease until the day after the wedding .
all that time Levin feel uncomfortable and bored , but the stress of his joy go on increase .
all that time he feel that many thing he do not know be expect of he , but he do all he be tell , and it all give he joy .
he have think that his courtship would be quite unlike any other , that the ordinary condition of courtship would spoil his peculiar happiness ; but he end by do what other do , and his happiness be thereby only increase , become more and more peculiar to he , unlike anyone else 's be or be .
' now we shall eat some sweet , ' say Mlle Linon , and off go Levin to buy sweet .
' I be very pleased indeed , ' say Sviyazhsky , ' I advise you to go to Fomin 's for the flower . ' –
' be they necessary ? ' and off he go to
Fomin 's . his brother tell he he ought to borrow some money because he would have a lot of expense : there would be present ...
' be present require ? ' and off he rush to Fulda , the jeweller 's .
at the confectioner 's , florist 's , and jeweller 's , he notice that they be expect he , that they be pleased to see he , and triumph in his happiness just like everyone else with whom he have anything to do at that time .
it be extraordinary that not only be everybody fond of he , but all the hitherto unsympathetic , cold , or indifferent person be delighted with he , give way to he in everything , treat his feeling with delicate consideration , and share his own opinion that he be the happy man on earth because his betrothed be the height of perfection .
Kitty feel just the same .
when the Countess Nordston take the liberty of hint that she have hope for something well , Kitty get so heated and prove so convincingly that no one on earth could be well than Levin , that the Countess have to admit it , and thereafter never encounter Levin in Kitty 's presence without a smile of delight .
the confession he have promise she be the one painful episode of that time .
he consult the old Prince , and with his permission give Kitty his diary , which contain the fact that be torment he .
he have write the diary with the intention of show it to his future bride - elect .
the confession of his agnosticism pass without a remark .
she be religious and have never doubt the truth of her religion , but the lack of external religion in he do not affect she at all .
she know , through her love , his whole soul , and see in it what she desire , and the fact that that spiritual condition be call agnosticism be quite indifferent to she .
the other confession make she weep bitterly .
Levin have not hand she the diary without an inward struggle .
he know that between he and she there could and should be nothing secret , and therefore he decide that it be his duty , but he have not consider how the confession might affect she : he have not put himself in her place .
only when he come that evening , before go to the theatre , and enter her room to see in her tear - stain face the misery cause by the irremediable sorrow he have bring about , do he realize from that sweet , pathetic face what an abysm separate his taint past from her dove - like purity , and he be horror - strike at what he have do .
' take , take those dreadful book back ! ' she cry , push away the note - book that lie on the table before she . ' why do you give I they ? ...
but no – it be good after all , ' she add , pity the despair on his face . ' but it be dreadful , dreadful ! '
his head droop and he remain silent , unable to speak .
' you will not forgive I ? ' he whisper .
' yes , I have forgive you , but it be dreadful ! '
however , his happiness be so great that this confession do not impair it , but only give it a new tinge .
she forgive he , but after that he feel yet more unworthy of she , morally bow still low before she , and value still more highly his undeserved happiness .
INVOLUNTARILY review the impression leave on his mind by the conversation at dinner and after , Karenin return to his solitary room .
what Dolly have say about forgiveness have merely vex he .
whether or not to apply the christian principle to his own case be too difficult a question to be lightly discuss , and Karenin have long since answer it in the negative .
of all that have be say the word of the silly good - natured Turovtsyn have sink deep into his mind – ' he act like a brick , challenge the other man , and kill he . '
evidently everybody have agree with that , though they be too polite to say so .
' however , that point be settle and not worth think about , ' say Karenin to himself ; and with nothing in his mind but his impending journey and his work of inspection , he go to his room and ask the doorkeeper , who follow he , where his valet be . the man reply that the valet have just go out .
Karenin order tea , sit down at a table , take up a time - table , and begin plan his journey .
' two telegram , ' say the valet , enter . ' excuse I , your Excellency – I have only just go out . '
Karenin take the telegram and open they .
the first contain the news that Stremov have obtain the very appointment Karenin have be hope for .
he throw down the telegram and flush . rise , he begin to pace the room .
' Quos vult perdere dementat , ' he think , quo be those who have have a hand in make the appointment .
he be vex , not so much at having miss that post himself and at having be obviously pass over , as at the incomprehensible and surprising fact that they do not realize how much less suitable than anyone else be that voluble windbag , Stremov .
how be it they do not see that by give he that post they be ruin themselves and their own prestige ?
' something else of the same kind , ' he think bitterly , as he open the second telegram .
it be from his wife , and Anna , write in blue pencil , be the first word he see . ' I be die .
I beg and entreat you , come !
I shall die easy for your forgiveness , ' he read .
smile contemptuously , he throw down the telegram .
his first thought be that beyond doubt it be only falsehood and cunning .
' she would not hesitate at any deception .
she be go to be confine ; perhaps that be the illness .
but what can they be aim at ?
to legitimize the child , compromise I , and prevent a divorce ? ' he reflect . ' but there be something about die ... '
he re - read the telegram , and be suddenly strike by the direct meaning of the word .
' suppose it be true ? ' he say to himself . ' if it be true , and at the moment of suffering and approach to death she be sincerely repentant , and I , believe it to be false , refuse to come ?
it would not only be cruel and everybody would condemn I , but it would be stupid on my part . '
' Peter , keep the carriage !
I be return to Petersburg , ' he tell the valet .
he decide to go back to Petersburg and see his wife .
if the news of her illness be false , he would go away again say nothing ; but if she be really ill and die , and wish to see he before her death , he would , should he find she still live , forgive she ; and should he arrive too late he would perform his last duty to she .
while on his way he do not again think about what he should do .
with the sense of fatigue and want of cleanliness result from a night spend in a railway carriage , Karenin drive through the fog of a Petersburg morning , along the deserted Nevsky , look straight before he and not think of what await he .
he dared not think of it , because when he imagine what would happen he could not drive from his mind the thought that her death would at once dissolve all the difficulty of the situation .
baker , the closed shop , night izvoshchiks and man sweep the pavement pass before his eye , and watch all this he try to stifle the thought of what lay before he and of what he dare not desire and yet could not help desire .
the carriage stop at the porch .
a carriage , with a coachman asleep on the box , and an izvoshchik be stand at the entrance .
as he enter the hall Karenin drag forth his resolve as it be from a remote corner of his brain , and con it over . it say :
' if it be all a fraud , then calm contempt and leave again ; if true , keep up appearance . '
the door be open by the hall - porter before Karenin have time to ring . the porter , Petrov , otherwise Kapitonich , look strange in an old coat without a tie , and in slipper .
' how be your mistress ? '
' safely deliver yesterday . '
Karenin halt and turn pale .
now he clearly realize how much he have desire her death .
' and her health ? '
Korney , wear his morning apron , come run downstairs .
' very bad , ' he say . ' there be a consultation yesterday and the doctor be here now . '
' take my thing , ' say Karenin ; and somewhat relieve by the news that there be still some hope of her die , he enter the ante - room .
on the hall - stand be hang a military coat , and he notice it .
' who be here ? '
' the doctor , the midwife , and Count Vronsky . '
Karenin pass on to the inner apartment .
there be no one in the drawing - room , but the midwife , with lilac ribbon in her cap , come out of Anna 's boudoir .
she approach Karenin , and with a familiarity breed by death 's approach take he by the hand and lead he toward the bedroom .
' thank God you have come !
she talk only about you and nothing but you , ' say she .
' be quick and bring the ice ! ' come the authoritative sound of the doctor 's voice from the bedroom .
Karenin enter the boudoir .
beside the table , sit with his side toward the back of a low chair , be Vronsky , his hand cover his face , weep .
at the sound of the doctor 's voice he jump up , uncover his face , and see Karenin .
but at sight of her husband he be fill with such confusion that he again sit down , draw his head down between his shoulder as if try to become invisible . then , make an effort , he rise and say :
' she be die .
the doctor say there be no hope .
I be entirely in your hand ... but allow I to remain here , please ! ... however , I be in your hand .
the sight of Vronsky 's tear make Karenin aware of the approach of that mental perturbation which other people 's visible suffering always arouse in he , and turn away his head he go toward the door without heed what Vronsky be say .
Anna 's voice , talk about something , come from the bedroom .
it sound cheerful and animate , and its articulation be extremely distinct .
Karenin enter and go up to the bed .
she lie with her face toward he .
her cheek be rosy red , her eye glitter , and her little white hand , from which the cuff of her dressing - jacket have be push back , toy with the corner of the blanket , twist it .
she appear not only fresh and well but in the good of spirit .
she speak rapidly , in a ring voice with extraordinarily accurate intonation , full of feeling .
' because Alexis ... I be speak of Alexis Alexandrovich – how strange and terrible that they be both call Alexis , be it not ? – Alexis would not have refuse I .
I should have forget and he would have forgive ...
but why do he not come ?
he be kind , he himself do not know how kind he be .
oh God ! what weariness !
give I some water , quick !
oh , but it will be bad for she , for my little girl !
well , all right – well , let she have a nurse .
well , I agree , it will be well so .
he will come back and it will pain he to see she .
take she away ! '
' Anna Arkadyevna , he have come !
here he be , ' say the midwife , try to draw Anna 's attention to Alexis Alexandrovich .
' oh , what nonsense ! ' Anna go on , take no notice of her husband .
' but let I have she , let I have my little girl !
he have not come yet . you say he will not forgive I , because you do not know he .
no one know he , only I , and even for I it have become hard .
one must know his eye . Serezha 's be just the same – that be why I can not bear to see they .
have they give Serezha his dinner ?
do not I know that everybody will forget ?
he would not forget .
Serezha must be move into the corner room , and Mariette must be ask to sleep with he . '
suddenly she recoil , become silent and frightened , and put her arm before her face as if in expectation of a blow ; she have see her husband .
' no , no ! ' she begin again . ' I be not afraid of he .
I be afraid of death . Alexis , come here !
I be in a hurry , because I have no time . I have not long to live , I shall soon become feverish and then I shall no long understand anything .
now I understand , understand everything and see everything ! '
over Karenin 's draw face come a look of suffering ; he take her hand and be about to say something , but could not speak . his low jaw tremble ; he struggle with his agitation , every now and then glance at she .
and every time he do so he see her eye look at he with such tender and ecstatic emotion as he have never before see in they .
' wait a bit – you do not know ...
wait , wait ! ... ' she pause as if to collect her thought . ' yes , ' she continue , ' yes , yes , yes !
this be what I wish to say .
do not be surprised at I ; I be still the same ...
but there be another in I as well , and I be afraid of she . she fall in love with that other one , and I wish to hate you but could not forget she who be before .
that other be not i. now I be the real one , all of I .
I be die now , I know I be ; ask he . even now I feel it .
here they be , my hand and foot and finger , whole hundredweight be on they .
my finger , see how enormous they be !
but all this will soon end ...
I only want one thing : forgive I , forgive I completely !
I be dreadfully bad , but the nurse tell about the holy martyr – what be her name ? – she be bad .
and I shall go to Rome , there be a wilderness there and then I shall be in nobody 's way . I shall only take Serezha and the little girl ...
no , you can not forgive I ! I know that I can not be forgive .
you be too good ! ' with one hot hand she hold his , while with the other she push he away .
the perturbation in Karenin 's soul go on increase and reach a point where he give up struggle against it . suddenly he feel that what he have take for perturbation be on the contrary a blissful state of his soul , bring he joy such as he have never before know .
he be not think that the law of Christ , which all his life he have try to fulfil , tell he to forgive and love his enemy but a joyous feeling of forgiveness and love for his enemy , fill his soul .
he kneel with his head rest on her lend arm , which burn through its sleeve like fire , and sob like a child .
she put her arm round his bald head , move close to he , and look up with an expression of proud defiance .
' here he be ; I know !
now good - bye to all , good - bye ! ...
they have come again , why do not they go away ? ...
oh , take these fur off I ! '
the doctor move her arm and carefully draw the bedclothe over her shoulder .
she meekly lie down on her back and gaze with radiant eye straight before she .
' remember that the only thing I want be your forgiveness , I wish for nothing else ...
why do he not come in ? ' she cry , call to Vronsky on the other side of the door . ' come , come !
give he your hand . '
Vronsky come to her bedside and , on see Anna , again hide his face in his hand .
' uncover your face ! look at he !
he be a saint , ' say she . ' uncover , yes , uncover your face ! ' she go on angrily .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , uncover his face ! I want to see he . '
Karenin take Vronsky 's hand and move they away from his face , terrible with its look of suffering and shame .
' give he your hand .
forgive he . '
Karenin hold out his hand , without restrain the tear that be fall .
' thank God , thank God ! ' she cry . ' now everything be ready .
only stretch out my leg a little .
that be right – now it be splendid .
how badly those flower be draw , not a bit like violet , ' and she point to the wallpaper .
' oh , my God , my God !
when will it all come to an end ?
doctor , give I some morphia !
oh , my God , my God ! '
and she begin to toss in her bed .
the doctor and his colleague say it be puerperal fever , which in ninety - nine case out of a hundred end fatally .
all day she be feverish , delirious , and unconscious .
at midnight she lie insensible , with hardly any pulse .
the end be expect every moment .
Vronsky go away , but come again in the morning to inquire . Karenin meet he in the ante - room and say : ' remain here : she may ask for you , ' and himself show he into Anna 's boudoir .
toward morning she have become excited and animate , and her thought and word flow rapidly ; but again this state lapse into unconsciousness .
on the third day she be just the same and the doctor give some hope .
that day Karenin go out into the boudoir where Vronsky sit , and having lock the door take a seat opposite he .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , ' say Vronsky , feel that an explanation be come . ' I be unable to think , unable to understand .
spare I !
however painful it may be to you , believe I it be still more terrible for I . '
he be about to rise , but Karenin take he by the hand and say :
' I beg you to hear I ; it be necessary .
I must explain to you my feeling , those that have guide I and will guide I in future , so that you may not misunderstand I .
you know that I resolve on a divorce and have even take step toward obtain it .
I will not conceal from you that when I take action I be in a state of indecision ; I suffer , and I confess that I be haunt by a desire for vengeance .
on receive the telegram I come here with the same feeling – more than that , I wish for her death . but ... '
he stop and reflect whether he should reveal his feeling or not . ' but I see she and forgave she .
and the joy of forgiving have reveal my duty to I .
I have wholly forgive – I want to turn the other cheek – I want to give my cloak because my coat have be take .
I only pray God that the joy of forgiving may not be take from I . ' tear fill his eye , and their clear calm expression strike Vronsky .
' that be my position . you may trample I in the mud , make I the laughing - stock of the world , – I will not forsake she and will never utter a word of reproach to you , ' continue Karenin .
' my duty be clearly define : I must and will remain with she . if she wish to see you I will let you know ; but now I think it will be good for you to leave . '
he rise , and sob break his voice .
Vronsky get up at once , and stoop before he look up into his face without unbend his back .
he could not understand Karenin , but feel that here be something high , and inaccessible to one with his outlook on life .
after his conversation with Karenin Vronsky go out on to the Karenins ' porch and then stop , recall with difficulty where he be and where he ought to go .
he feel ashamed , humiliate , guilty , and deprive of the possibility of cleanse himself from his degradation .
he feel himself knock quite out of the rut along which he have hitherto trodden so proudly and so lightly .
all the apparently solid habit and rule of his life suddenly seem false and inapplicable .
the deceive husband – who up till now have appear a pitiful creature , an accidental and rather ridiculous obstacle to his happiness – suddenly recall by she and raise to a pedestal that inspire the utmost respect , that husband in his lofty elevation turn out to be , not only not cruel , false , or absurd , but kind , simple , and dignified .
Vronsky could not help be conscious of this .
they have suddenly exchange role .
Vronsky feel Karenin 's greatness and his own humiliation , . Karenin 's rightness and his own wrongdoing .
he feel that the husband in his sorrow be magnanimous , while he himself be mean and trivial in his deception .
but the consciousness of his degradation toward the man whom he have unjustly despise account for but a small portion of his grief .
he be unspeakably miserable because his passion for Anna , which he imagine have of late begin to cool , have become even strong now that he know she to be lose to he for ever .
during her illness he have learn to know she thoroughly , have see into her very soul ; and it seem to he that he have never love she before .
and just now , when he know she and love she in the right way , he have be humiliate before she and have lose she for ever , leave she nothing but a shameful memory of himself .
but most terrible of all be the ridiculous , shameful figure he have cut when Karenin be pull his hand from before his shame - suffuse face .
he stand in the porch of the Karenins ' house as one in a maze , and do not know what to do next .
' shall I call an izvoshchik ? ' inquire the hall - porter .
' yes , an izvoshchik . '
return home after the three sleepless night , Vronsky do not undress but lie down prone on a sofa , with his head on his fold arm .
his head be heavy .
fancy , memory , and most strange thought follow one another with extreme rapidity and clearness : now he see himself pour out medicine for the patient and overfill the spoon , then he see the midwife 's white hand , or Karenin 's curious pose as he kneel on the floor by her bedside .
' to sleep , to forget ! ' he say to himself with the calm certainty of a healthy man that be tired and in want of sleep he would at once fall asleep .
and in fact in a moment his thought grow confused and he begin to fall into the abyss of forgetfulness .
the wave of the sea of unconscious life be begin to close over his head when all at once he feel as if he have receive a violent electric shock . he start so violently that his whole body be throw upwards on the spring of the sofa , and lean on his hand he rise to his knee in fear .
his eye be wide open as if he have not sleep at all .
the heaviness of his head and the languor of his limb , of which he have be aware a moment previously , have suddenly vanish .
' you may trample I in the mud , ' he seem to hear Karenin say ; and he see Anna 's feverishly flushed face and brilliant eye gaze , not at he but at Karenin ; he see his own , as it seem to he , stupid and ridiculous figure when Karenin be draw his hand away from his face .
he stretch out his leg and again throw himself upon the sofa , in the same position as before , and shut his eye .
' sleep , sleep , ' he keep repeat to himself .
but with his eye close he could see yet more distinctly Anna 's face , as he have see it on that memorable evening before the race .
' all that be end and never will be again , and she wish to efface it from her memory .
I can not live without it .
then how can we be reconcile – how can we be reconcile ? ' say he aloud , and go on unconsciously repeat those word .
this reiteration prevent other image and memory which be throng his brain from arise .
but the repetition of those word do not long hinder his imagination from work .
again , follow each other with great rapidity , his happy moment rise in his fancy ; and with they his recent humiliation .
' take away his hand , ' Anna 's voice be say .
Karenin pull away his hand and he be conscious of the shame - suffused and stupid expression of his own face .
he still lay try to fall asleep , though he have lose all hope of succeed , and keep repeat in a whisper random word connect with disjointed thought , in order to prevent other image from rise .
he listen and hear repeat in a strange mad whisper the word , ' unable to value , unable to enjoy ; unable to value , unable to enjoy . '
' what be this ? be I go mad ? ' he ask himself .
what else make people go mad ? what make they shoot themselves ? ' he reply to his own thought ; and open his eye he be surprised to see , close to his head , an embroider cushion work by Varya , his brother 's wife .
finger a tassel of the cushion , he try to think of Varya as he have last see she .
but to think of anything extraneous be painful .
' no , I must sleep ! '
he move the cushion and press his head against it , but his eye would not remain closed without effort .
he jump up and sit down .
' that be at an end for I , ' he think , ' I must think over what I must do , what be leave I . '
his thought glide quickly over his life unconnected with his passion for Anna .
' ambition ?
serpukhovskoy ?
society ?
the Court ? ' he could not dwell on any of these thing .
he rise from the sofa , take off his coat , loosen the strap , and , bare his shaggy chest to breathe more freely , walk across the room .
' that be how one go mad , ' he say again , ' and how one shoot oneself so as not to be ashamed , ' he conclude slowly .
go up to a door he close it , then with fix gaze and tightly clench tooth , approach the table , take up his revolver , examine it , turn it to a loaded chamber , and ponder .
for a minute or two he stand motionless with bow head , a strained expression of effort on his face , hold the revolver in his hand .
' of course ! ' he say to himself , as if lead to a definite conclusion by a logical , continued , and clear line of reasoning .
in reality that convince ' of course ! ' be merely the outcome of the repetition of a round of fancy and recollection similar to those he have already go over dozen of time in the last hour .
they be the same memory of happiness lose for ever , the same thought of the senselessness of all that life have in store for he , and the same consciousness of his humiliation .
and they follow in the same rotation .
' of course ! ' he say again when think return a third time to that point in the enchanted circle of memory and idea ; and place the revolver against the left side of his chest , with a strong movement of his whole hand as if to clench the fist , he pull the trigger .
he do not hear the sound of a shot , but a powerful blow on the chest knock he off his foot .
he wish to steady himself by the table , drop the revolver , reel , and sit down on the floor , look about he in astonishment .
he do not recognize his room as he look up at the curved leg of the table , and at the waste - paper basket and the tiger - skin rug .
the quick step of his servant , come through the drawing - room , bring he to his sense .
he make an effort and understand that he be on the floor , and , see blood on the tiger - skin and on his hand , realize that he have try to shoot himself .
' stupid ! ...
miss , ' he mutter , feel with his hand for the revolver .
it be close to he but he seek it far away .
continue his search he lean over to the other side , and unable to keep his balance , fall down bleed .
the elegant servant with the whisker , who often complain to his friend about the weakness of his nerve , be so upset when he see his master lie on the floor , that he leave he to bleed to death and run away to get help .
in an hour 's time Varya arrive , and with the assistance of three doctor whom she have summon from every quarter , and who all arrive at the same time , she get the wound man to bed , and then stay in the house to nurse he .
the MISTAKE KARENIN have make when , prepare to see his wife , he have not consider the possibility either of her repentance be real or of her recovery , face he in all its significance two month after his return from Moscow .
but this mistake be not entirely cause by his omitting to consider that contingency , but also by the fact that , up to the day when he be face to face with his die wife , he have not know his own heart .
by his sick wife 's bedside he have for the first time in his life give rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of other evoke in he ; and which he have till then be ashamed of , as of a weakness ; and his pity for she , remorse at having wish for her death , and above all the joy of forgive , in itself give he not only relief from suffer but inward peace such as he have never before experienced .
suddenly he feel that the very thing that have be a source of suffer to he have become a spiritual joy , and that what have seem insoluble as long as he indulge in censure , recrimination , and hatred , have become simple and clear when he forgave and love .
he forgive his wife and pity she for her suffering and remorse .
he forgive Vronsky and pity he , especially when report of Vronsky 's desperate action reach he .
he pity his son too , more than he have do before , and reproach himself for not having pay more attention to he .
but for the new - bear little girl he have a peculiar sentiment , not of pity alone but even of tenderness .
at first commiseration alone draw his attention to the delicate infant , not his daughter , who have be neglect during her mother 's illness and would certainly have die then have it not be for his solicitude ; and he himself hardly know how he grow fond of she .
several time a day he go to the nursery , and remain there so long that the nurse , who have be shy in his presence , become quite used to he .
sometimes he would sit for half an hour gaze at the saffron and red downy , wrinkled little face of the sleep infant , watch the movement of the frown little forehead and the plump little hand with the bent finger and palm that rub the tiny eye and nose .
at such moment especially Karenin feel quite calm and at peace with himself , see nothing exceptional in his position and nothing that ought to be alter .
but as time go on he see more and more clearly that , however natural his position might appear to he at the time , he would not be allow to remain in it .
he be conscious that , beside the good spiritual force which govern his soul , there exist a coarse power , as potent if not more so ; and that this power would not grant he the humble peace he desire .
he feel that everybody look at he with question surprise without understand he , expect something from he ; and especially he be aware of the insecurity and artificiality of his relation to his wife .
when the softened mood cause by the nearness of death have pass , Karenin begin to notice that Anna fear he , be oppress by his presence , and avoid look he straight in the eye .
it be as if she wish , yet could not make up her mind , to say something , and foresee that their present relation could not continue , expect something from he too .
at the end of February Anna 's newborn daughter , also name Anna , happen to fall ill .
Karenin have be in the nursery that morning , and having give order to send for the doctor , have go to the Department .
toward four o'clock , having finish his work , he return home .
on enter the ante - room he see there a handsome footman in gold - braid livery with a bearskin cape , hold a cloak line with white fur .
' who be here ? ' ask Karenin .
' Princess Elisabeth Federovna Tverskaya , ' answer the footman with a smile , – as it seem to Karenin .
all through that difficult time Karenin notice that all his worldly acquaintance , especially the woman , display a particularly lively interest in he and his wife .
he notice in all these acquaintance a kind of joy , which they suppress with difficulty , like the joy he have notice in the lawyer 's eye and again just now in the footman 's .
everybody seem elated , as if they be give some one in marriage .
when they meet he they inquire with scarcely hide pleasure about Anna 's health .
the presence of Princess Tverskaya and the memory associate with she , couple with the fact that he have never like she , be unpleasant to Karenin , and he go straight to the nursery .
in the front nursery Serezha , lie with his chest on the table and his leg on a chair , be draw something and chatter merrily .
an english nursery governess , who since Anna 's illness have replace the french governess with the boy , sit do some crochet - work . she hurriedly rise , curtseyed , and nudge Serezha .
Karenin pass his hand over his son 's hair , answer the governess 's inquiry about Anna 's health , and ask what the doctor have say about baby .
' the doctor say there be no danger and have order bath , sir . '
' but she be still suffer , ' remark Karenin , listen to the cry child in the next room .
' I think the nurse be unsuitable , sir , ' say the Englishwoman with decision ..
' why do you think so ? ' he ask , stop short .
' the same thing happen in Countess Paul 's case .
the baby be medically treat and then it turn out to be merely hungry and nothing more . the nurse have no milk , sir . '
Karenin reflect a moment and then enter the other room .
the little girl lie with her head throw back , wriggle in the wet - nurse 's arm , and would neither take the breast nor cease scream , despite the hushing of two nurse who be bend over she .
' still no well ? ' ask Karenin .
' very restless , ' say the head - nurse in a whisper .
' Miss Edwards say that perhaps the nurse have no milk , ' he say .
' I think so too , Alexis Alexandrovich . '
' then why do you not say so ? '
' whom could I speak to ?
Anna Arkadyevna be still ill ... ' say the old nurse in a dissatisfied tone .
the nurse be an old family servant , and in her simple word Karenin think he notice a hint at his position .
the baby scream louder , catch her breath and grow hoarse .
the old nurse with a gesture of vexation come up and take she from the wet - nurse , and begin pace up and down , rock the baby in her arm .
' the doctor must be ask to examine the nurse , ' say Karenin .
the healthy - look wet - nurse in her finery , evidently afraid of be dismiss , mutter something to herself as she cover her well - develop breast , and smile contemptuously at the idea of she not have sufficient milk .
in that smile also Karenin think he see himself and his position ridicule .
' unfortunate child ! ' say the nurse , hush the baby and continue to walk up and down with it .
Karenin sit down on a chair and with a look full of suffering and weariness watch the nurse as she pace the room .
when the child be pacify and lay in her deep cot , and the nurse after smooth the little pillow go away , Karenin rise , and step with difficulty on tiptoe approach the infant .
for a moment he stand silent , regard the child with the same weary expression ; but suddenly a smile , wrinkle the skin on his forehead and make his hair move , light up his face , and he quietly leave the room .
he ring the bell in the dining - room and tell the servant to send for the doctor once more .
he be vex with his wife for not troubling about the charming baby , feel disinclined to go in and see she while in that frame of mind , and also disincline to meet the Princess Betsy ; but his wife might think it strange if he do not come in as usual , and so he master himself and go to her bedroom .
step on the soft carpet , as he approach the door he involuntarily overhear a conversation which he have no wish to hear .
' if he have not be go away I should understand your refusal and his too .
but your husband must be above that , ' Betsy be say .
' it be not for my husband 's sake but for my own that I do not wish it .
do not talk about it , ' answer Anna in an excited voice .
' yes , but you can not but wish to say good - bye to a man who try to shoot himself for your sake ... '
' it be just for that reason that I do not wish it . '
Karenin , with a frightened and guilty face , stop short and think of return unnoticed ; but come to the conclusion that this would be undignified he turn , cough , and go toward the bedroom door .
the voice be silent and he enter .
Anna , in a grey dressing - gown , with her black hair crop short but already grow again like a thick brush over her round head , sit on a couch .
a usual when she see her husband all her animation vanish from her face ; she bow her head and glance uneasily at Betsy .
Betsy , dress in the very late fashion , her hat soar high above her head like a little chimney coronet over a lamp , in a dove - coloured dress with very pronounced diagonal stripe go one way on the bodice and the other way on the skirt , be sit beside Anna , her flat tall figure very erect and her head bent . she meet Karenin with an ironical smile .
' ah ! ' she exclaim , as if in surprise , ' I be so glad you be at home .
I have not see you since Anna 's illness .
I have hear everything ... all about your attentiveness .
yes , you be a wonderful husband ! ' she say with a significant and affable expression , as if she be confer on he an Order of Highmindedness for his conduct toward his wife .
Karenin bow coldly , and kiss his wife 's hand ask about her health .
' I think I be well , ' she say , avoid his eye .
' but your face look feverish , ' say he , emphasize the word feverish .
' we have be talk too much , ' say Betsy . ' I know it be selfish of I and I be go . '
she rise , but Anna , suddenly blush , quickly seize her hand .
' no , please stay !
I must tell you ... you , I mean , ' and she turn toward her husband , the colour spread over her neck and forehead . ' I do not wish to hide anything from you . '
Karenin crack his finger and bow his head .
' Betsy say Count Vronsky want to come and say good - bye before leave for Tashkend . ' she be not look at her husband , and evidently be in a hurry to get through what she mean to say at any cost . ' I say I could not receive he . '
' you say , my love , that it would depend on Alexis Alexandrovich . ' Betsy correct she .
' oh no ! I can not receive he , and it would lead ... ' she stop suddenly and glance inquiringly at her husband , who be not look at she . ' in a word , I do not wish ... '
Karenin draw near and be go to take her hand .
her first impulse be to draw away her hand from his moist one with the thick swell vein , that be seek hers ; but with evident effort she press it .
' I be very grateful for your confidence , but ... ' he begin in confusion , feel with vexation that what he could so clearly decide within himself he be unable to discuss in the presence of the Princess Tverskaya , who appear to he the personification of that coarse power which would rule his life in the eye of the world , and which prevent he from yield to his feeling of love and forgiveness .
he stop and look at the Princess .
' well , good - bye , my precious ! ' say Betsy , rise again .
she kiss Anna and go out .
Karenin follow she .
I know you to be a really high - minded man , ' say Betsy , stop short in the little sitting - room and once again press his hand with peculiar warmth . ' I be only an outsider , but be so fond of she and respect you so much that I will take the liberty of advise you .
receive he !
Alexis Vronsky be honour personify , and besides he be leave for Tashkend . '
' thank for your sympathy and advice , Princess !
but the question whom my wife will and whom she will not receive she will decide for herself . '
he say this from force of habit , with a dignified raising of his eyebrow , but immediately remember that whatever he might say there could be no question of dignity in his position , and see the confirmation of this in the suppress cruel and ironical smile with which Betsy glance at he when he have speak .
KARENIN TOOK LEAVE of BETSY when they reach the dining - room and return to his wife .
she be lie down , but on hear his step she quickly sit up in her former place and glance at he with apprehension .
he see that she have be cry .
' I be very grateful to you for your confidence , ' he repeat in Russian what he have say in French in Betsy 's presence . when speak Russian to she he call she ' thou , ' and that always irritate she .
[ in Russian as in French and other language the second person singular be use in conversation between intimate and also in speak to inferior . ]
' and I be very grateful for your decision . I too think that , as he be go away , there be no need whatever for Count Vronsky to come here .
however ... '
' but I have already say so ! then why repeat it ? '
Anna suddenly interrupt he , with an irritation she could not repress . ' no need whatever , ' she think , ' for a man to come and take leave of a woman he love , for whose sake he want to die and have ruin himself , a woman who can not live without he !
no need whatever ! '
and she press her lip together and lower her glisten eye , look at his hand with their swollen vein , which he be slowly rub together .
' let we say no more about it , ' she add more calmly .
' I leave it to you to decide the matter , and be very glad to see ... ' begin Karenin .
' that my wish coincide with yours , ' she rapidly complete his sentence , exasperate by the slowness with which he speak , and know beforehand what he would say .
he assent . ' yes , and Princess Tverskaya 's intrusion into this most difficult family matter be entirely out of place ...
especially as she ... '
' I do not believe anything they say about she , ' Anna put in quickly . ' I know that she be sincerely fond of I . '
Karenin sigh and pause .
she be agitatedly toy with the tassel of her dressing - gown , glance at he with that torment feeling of physical repulsion for which she blame herself , but which she could not overcome .
the one thing she be long for be to get rid of his obnoxious presence .
' I have just send for the doctor , ' say he .
' I be quite well – why should I need the doctor ? '
' yes , but the little one keep scream , and they say the nurse have not enough milk . '
' then why would you not let I nurse she , when I entreat you to ? she be a child anyhow ' ( he understand what she mean by that anyhow ) ' and they will kill she . '
she ring , and order the baby to be bring . ' I ask to be allow to nurse she , and I be not ; and now I be blame . '
' I do not blame ... '
' yes , you be blame I ! oh God , why do I not die ? ' and she begin to sob . ' forgive I , I be upset ! I be unjust , ' she go on , control herself . ' but go ... '
' no , it can not go on like that , ' he tell himself with conviction after leave his wife .
never before have his impossible situation ( as the world think it ) – his wife 's hatred , and the strength of that coarse power which , in direct opposition to his inward mood , dominate his life and demand fulfilment of its decree and a change in his relation to his wife – never before have the impossibility of his position appear so evident .
he see clearly that the world and also his wife be demand something from he , but exactly what this something be he do not comprehend .
all this be arouse a feeling of animosity in his soul , spoil his peace of mind and deprive his achievement of all value .
he consider it well for Anna to break off her relation with Vronsky , but if everyone think this impossible , he be even ready to allow those relation to be renew , so long as no slur be thereby cast on the child , he be not deprive of they , and his position be not alter .
bad as this would be , it would be preferable to a complete rupture , which would place she in a hopeless and shameful position , and deprive he of all he love .
but he feel powerless ; he be aware in advance that everybody would be against he and that he would not be allow to do what now seem so natural and good , that he would be oblige to do what be wrong but what seem to they necessary .
before BETSY have pass out of the dining - room Oblonsky , who have just come from eliseyev 's , where newly - arrive oyster be to be have , meet she in the doorway .
' ah , Princess ! what a pleasure to meet you , ' he begin . ' and I have be at your house . '
' we meet only for a moment , as I be just go , ' say Betsy , smile and put on her glove .
' wait a little , Princess , before put on your glove ! let I kiss your hand !
there be nothing for which I be more thankful than for the revival of the old custom of hand - kissing , ' and he kiss Betsy 's hand : ' when shall I see you again ? '
' you be not worth it , ' say Betsy , smile .
' yes , I be well worth it , because I have become the most serious of man .
I not only settle my own , but other people 's family affair , ' say he with a significant glance .
' oh , I be very glad ! ' say Betsy , at once understanding that he refer to Anna . she return to the dining - room with he and they stand together in a corner .
' he will kill she , ' say Betsy in a significant whisper . ' this be impossible , impossible ... '
' I be very glad you think so , ' return Oblonsky , shake his head with an expression of grave , woebegone commiseration . ' that be why I have come to Petersburg . '
' the whole town be talk of it , ' she say . ' it be an impossible situation .
she be fade away , fade away !
he do not understand that she be one of those woman who can not play with their feeling .
one of two thing must happen : either he must take she away , act energetically – or he must divorce she .
but all this be stifle she . '
' yes , yes ... exactly ! ' say Oblonsky , sigh . ' I have come because of that – I mean , not entirely because of it ...
I have be make Chamberlain , and have to tender my thank .
but the chief thing be to get this affair settle . '
' well then , may God help you , ' say Betsy .
having see she down to the hall and again kiss her hand , a little above the glove just where the pulse beat , and having tell she some rubbish so daring that she do not know whether to be angry or to laugh , Oblonsky go to his sister 's room .
he find she in tear .
though he be overflow with high spirit Oblonsky immediately fall into a sympathetic and romantic mood suit to hers , inquire after her health and ask how she have spend the morning .
' very , very badly .
this afternoon and morning and all other day , past and future , ' she reply .
' I think you give way to melancholy .
you should rouse yourself , and look life straight in the face .
I know it be hard , but ... '
' I have hear it say that woman love man for their very fault , ' Anna begin suddenly , ' but I hate he for his virtue .
I can not live with he .
try and realize it : even his look have a physical effect on I and drive I beside myself .
I can not live with he !
what be I to do ?
I be unhappy and think it impossible to be more so ; but I could never have imagine such a terrible position as I be now in . will you believe it ?
know that he be a kind and generous man – that I be not worth his little finger – nevertheless I hate he !
I hate he for his generosity .
and there be nothing leave for I but ... '
she be go to say ' death , ' but he do not let her finish .
' you be ill and excited , ' say he . ' believe I , you be greatly exaggerate the case .
there be nothing so very terrible about it . '
Oblonsky smile .
no one else in his place , have to deal with such despair , would have permit himself to smile , for a smile would have appear callous . but in his smile there be so much kindness and almost feminine tenderness that it be not offensive , but soothe and pacifying .
his soft comforting word and smile have as soothe and calm an effect as almond oil , and Anna soon feel this .
' no , Steve , ' say she . ' I be lose , quite lost !
and even bad than lose .
i. be not lose yet ; I can not say " all be finish " : on the contrary , I feel that all be not yet finish .
I be like a tightly - string cord which must break .
but all be not yet finish ... and it will end in some dreadful manner . '
' oh no ! one can loosen the string gently .
there be no situation from which there be no escape . '
' I have be think and thinking .
only one ... '
again he understand from her frightened face that she consider death to be the only escape , and do not let her finish .
' not at all ! ' he reply . ' listen .
you can not see your position as I can . let I tell you my frank opinion . '
again he smile his almond - oil smile . ' I will begin at the beginning : you marry a man twenty year old than yourself .
you marry without love and without have know love .
that be a mistake , I grant . '
' a dreadful mistake ! ' say Anna .
' but again I say that be an accomplished fact .
next , let we admit that you have the misfortune to fall in love , not with your husband .
that be a misfortune , but that too be an accomplished fact .
your husband have accept that and forgive you . ' he pause between each sentence , expect she to make objection ; but she make no answer .
' that be so ? now come the question : can you go on live with your husband ?
do you wish it ?
do he wish it ? '
' I do not know at all . '
' but you yourself say you can not endure he ? '
' no , I do not say so .
I take back those word .
I know nothing , I understand nothing . '
' yes , but let I ... '
' you can not understand .
I feel that I be fly headlong over some precipice but must not even try to save myself .
and I can not . '
' never mind , we will spread out something to catch you .
I understand that you can not take it upon yourself to express your wish and feeling . '
' I have no wish at all ... except that everything be at an end . '
' and he see that and know it .
do you think it weigh on he less than on you ?
you suffer and he suffer ; what can come of that ?
while a divorce would solve the whole problem , ' say Oblonsky not without difficulty express his main idea , and look at she significantly .
she reply only by shake her crop head ; but by the expression of her face , suddenly illuminate with its old beauty , he see that the only reason she do not wish for this solution be because it seem to she an impossible happiness .
' I be dreadfully sorry for you both !
how happy I should be if I could arrange it , ' continue Oblonsky , now smile more boldly . ' do not , do not say a word !
if only God help I to say what I feel !
I shall go to he . '
Anna look at he with dreamy , shine eye but say nothing .
OBLONSKY , with the same rather SOLEMN expression with which he be will not to take the chair at Council meeting , enter Karenin 's study .
Karenin , with his arm cross behind he , be pace up and down meditate on the very subject that his wife and Oblonsky have be discuss .
' I be not disturb you ? ' ask Oblonsky , experience at the sight of his brother - in - law a feeling of embarrassment quite unusual with he .
to hide that embarrassment he take out a cigarette - case with a new kind of fastening which he have only just buy , smelt the leather of which it be make , and take out a cigarette .
do you want anything ? ' Karenin answer reluctantly .
' yes . I wish ... I must have ... I must have a talk with you , ' say Oblonsky , surprise at his own unaccustomed timidity .
that timidity be so unexpected and strange that Oblonsky could not believe it be his conscience tell he that what he be about to do be wrong .
he make an effort and conquer it .
' I hope you believe in my affection for my sister and my sincere attachment and respect for yourself , ' say he , blush .
Karenin stop . he make no reply , but the expression of submissive self - sacrifice on his face strike Oblonsky .
' I intend to talk to you about my sister and your mutual position , ' say Oblonsky , still struggle with his unwonted timidity .
Karenin smile sadly , look at his brother - in - law , and without reply go to the table and take from it an unfinished letter which he hand to he .
' I think about that subject incessantly , and this be what I have begin to write , as I think I can put it well in writing , and my presence be distasteful to she , ' he say , hold out the letter .
Oblonsky take the letter , look with perplexed amazement at the dull eye fix on he , and begin read :
' I see that my presence be distasteful to you .
hard as it be for I to assure myself of this , I see that it be so , and there be no help for it .
I do not blame you , and God be my witness that when I see you ill , I resolve with my whole soul to forget everything that have come between we and to begin a new life .
I do not repent and never shall repent of what I do , as my only desire be for your welfare , the welfare of your soul ; but now I see that I have not succeed .
tell I yourself what would give you real happiness and peace of mind !
I submit myself entirely to your wish and sense of justice . '
Oblonsky return the letter and go on look at his brother - in - law with the same amazement , not know what to say .
that silence be so disconcert to both that Oblonsky 's lip twitch painfully as he silently and fixedly gaze at Karenin 's face .
' that be what I want to tell she , ' say Karenin as he turn away .
' yes , yes ! ' say Oblonsky , tear choke he and prevent his reply .
' yes , yes , I understand you , ' he bring out at last .
' I must know what she want , ' say Karenin .
' I be afraid she do not understand her position herself .
she be no judge of it , ' reply Oblonsky , grow more compose . ' she be crush , literally crush by your generosity .
if she read this letter she will not have the strength to say anything – she will only hang her head low than ever . '
' yes , but under these circumstance how be an explanation to be arrive at ? ...
how be I to find out what she wish ? '
' if you will permit I to express my opinion , I think it be for you to say what you think should be do in order to put an end to this state of affair . '
' then you think that an end should be put to it ? ' Karenin interrupt he . ' but how ? ' he add , move his hand before his eye in a manner unusual with he . ' I do not see any possible way out . '
' there be a way out of every situation , ' say Oblonsky , rise and grow excited . ' there be a time when you wish to break with she ...
should you be now convince that you can not make each other mutually happy ... '
' happiness can be define so differently !
however , I be ready to agree to anything – I want nothing at all .
what way out be there , in our case ? '
' if you wish to know my opinion , ' say Oblonsky with the same soothing , almondy - tender smile with which he have address Anna – a kindly smile so convincing that Karenin , conscious of his own weakness and yield to it , be involuntarily ready to believe anything Oblonsky should say , – ' she would never say so , but there be one way out , one thing she might wish !
it would be , to terminate your relation and everything that remind she of they .
as I look at it , in your case it be necessary to clear up your newly - arise relation to one another .
and this new relation can only be establish when both be free . '
' divorce ! '
Karenin interrupt with disgust . ' yes , divorce , I think .
yes , divorce , ' Oblonsky answer , redden .
' that would be the most reasonable way , from every point of view , with a couple place as you be .
what be to be do if they find out that life together have become impossible , as might happen anywhere ? '
Karenin sigh heavily and close his eye . ' there be only one thing to consider : do either party wish to remarry ?
if not , it be very simple , ' go on Oblonsky , gradually overcome his embarrassment . Karenin , his face draw with distress , mutter something to himself and make no reply .
he have consider a thousand time all this which appear so simple to Oblonsky , and it seem to he not only far from simple but altogether impossible .
an action for divorce , with the detail of which he be now acquaint , seem impossible , because a feeling of self - respect and his regard for religion would not allow he to plead guilty to a fictitious act of adultery , and still less to allow the wife he have forgive and whom he love to be indict and disgrace .
for other and yet more important reason also , divorce seem out of the question .
in case of a divorce , what would become of his son ?
to leave he with his mother be not possible ; the divorced mother would have another , an illegitimate family , in which the position and education of a stepson would in all probability be a bad one .
should he keep he himself ?
he know that would be revengeful and he do not wish for revenge .
but besides all this , what make divorce seem to Karenin more impossible than any other course be that by consent to it he would by that very act ruin Anna .
what Dolly have say in Moscow , to the effect that in consider a divorce he be think of himself and not of Anna , who would then be irretrievably lose , have sink into his heart .
and having connect these word with his forgiveness and with his attachment to the child , he now understand they in his own way .
to agree to a divorce – to give she her freedom – would mean , as he look at it , to deprive himself of the only thing that bind he to life , the child he love , and to deprive she of the last support on the path of virtue and cast she to perdition .
as a divorce wife she would form a union with Vronsky which would be both illegal and criminal , because accord to the law of the Church a wife may not remarry as long as her husband be live .
' she will form a union with he and within a year or two he will either abandon she or she will unite with someone else ; ' think Karenin ; ' and I , by consent to an illegal divorce , shall be the cause of her ruin . '
hundred of time he have think it over and have come to the conclusion that a divorce be not merely less simple than his brother - in - law consider it , but quite out of the question .
he do not believe a word of what Oblonsky be say , and for all his argument have score of refutation ready ; yet he listen , feel that those word express that coarse and mighty power which overrule his life and to which he would have to submit .
' the only question be , on what condition you will agree to a divorce .
she do not want anything , do not ask for anything , but leave all to your generosity . '
' o God , o God !
how have I deserve this ? ' think Karenin , recall the particular of a divorce - suit in which the husband take all the blame on himself ; and with the same ashamed gesture with which Vronsky have cover his face , he hide his own in his hand .
' you be upset . I quite understand .
but if you consider ... '
' Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek , turn to he the other also ... and if any man will take away thy coat , let he have thy cloak also , ' think Karenin .
' yes , yes ! ' he cry in a shrill voice . ' I will take the disgrace , and even give up my son ... but ... but have we not well let it alone ?
however , do as you like ! ' and turn away so that his brother - in - law should not see his face , he sit down on a chair by the window .
it be very bitter , and he feel ashamed ; yet mix with the bitterness and the shame he feel a sense of joy and emotion at the greatness of his own humility .
Oblonsky be touch .
he remain silent for a while .
' Alexis Alexandrovich ! believe I , she will esteem your generosity , ' say he . ' but evidently it be God 's will , ' he add , and having say it feel how silly it be and could hardly help smile at his own stupidity .
Karenin would have answer , but could not for his tear .
' it be a fatal disaster and have to be face . I regard this disaster as an accomplished fact and be try to help both you and she , ' Oblonsky go on .
when he leave his brother - in - law 's room Oblonsky be touch , but this feeling do not spoil his contentment at having successfully arrange the matter , for he be certain that Alexis Alexandrovich would not go back on his word .
to his contentment be add an idea that have just occur to he . when the affair be all settle he would ask his wife and intimate friend a riddle : ' what be the difference between I and a chemist ? '
answer : ' a chemist make solution which do not make anyone happy , but I have make a dissolution and make three people happy ! '
or , ' why be I like a chemist ? ...
when ...
however , I will improve on it later , ' he say to himself with a smile .
although vronsky 's wound have miss the heart it be dangerous , and for several day he lie between life and death .
when he be first able to talk again his brother 's wife Varya be alone with he .
' Varya ! ' he say look sternly at she , ' it go off accidentally !
never speak of it , please , and tell everybody else that .
or else it would be too stupid . '
without say a word Varya bend over he and look in his face with a joyful smile .
his eye be clear and no long feverish , but their expression be stern .
' well , thank God ! ' she exclaim . ' you be not in pain ? '
' a little , here , ' and he point to his chest .
' then let I change the bandage . '
he look at she silently , his broad jaw set , while she bandage he .
when she have finish he say .
' I be not delirious ... please arrange so that no one shall say that I shoot myself on purpose . '
' but no one do say so .
only I hope you will not go let it off accidentally any more , ' say she with an inquire smile .
' I expect I sha not , but it would have be well ... ' and he smile gloomily .
despite these word and that smile , which greatly perturb Varya , when the inflammation leave he and he become convalescent he feel that he have rid himself entirely of one part of his grief .
by his action he seem to have wash off the shame and degradation he have previously feel .
now he could think quietly about Karenin , fully realize his generosity without be humiliate thereby .
besides that , he get into his old rut again .
he find he could look people in the face once more , and he be able to live in accord with his former habit .
the one thing he could not tear out of his heart , although he continually struggle against it , be a regret border on despair at having lose Anna for ever .
that now , having atone for his guilt toward her husband , he would be oblige to give she up and never place himself between she with her remorse and her husband , be clear to his mind ; but he could not eradicate from his heart a regret for the loss of her love – could not efface from his memory the moment of happiness he have know with she , moment he have value so lightly , but the image of which with all their charm pursue he still .
Serpukhovskoy think out a post for he in Tashkend and Vronsky accept the proposition without the least hesitation .
but the near the hour for his departure approach the hard seem the sacrifice he be make to what he consider his duty .
his wound be quite heal and he go about make preparation for his journey to Tashkend .
' only to see she once more , and then to bury myself , to die ! ' he think , as he be make a round of farewell call , and he express this thought to Betsy .
it be with this message that Betsy go to Anna , and she bring he an answer in the negative .
' so much the well , ' think Vronsky when he hear it . ' it would have be a weakness – would have take away all the strength I have leave . '
next day Betsy herself come and announce that she have receive , through Oblonsky , the definite news that Karenin consent to a divorce and that therefore Vronsky might see Anna .
without so much as take the trouble of see Betsy to the door , or of ask when he could see Anna and where her husband be , Vronsky , in spite of all his resolution , at once go to the karenin ' .
without see anyone or anything he run up the stair and enter her room with hurried step – almost at a run .
without thinking , or consider whether they be alone or not , he embrace she and cover her face , hand , and neck with kiss .
Anna have prepare herself for this meeting and have think about what she would say to he ; but she have no time to say any of it , seize by his passion .
she wish to calm he and herself , but it be too late .
his passion communicate itself to she .
her lip tremble so that for a long time she could not speak .
' yes , you have take possession of I and I be yours , ' she bring out at last , press his hand to her bosom .
' it have to be ! ' say he . ' as long as we live it will have to be .
now I be sure of it . '
' it be true , ' she say , grow paler and pale , put her arm about his head . ' still , there be something terrible in this , after what have be . '
' it will pass , it will all pass , and we shall be so happy !
if our love could be strong , there be something terrible in it would make it so , ' he say , raise his head with a smile that show his fine tooth .
she could not help smile in answer , not to his word but to his enamoured eye .
she take his hand and stroke with it her cold cheek and cropped hair .
' I do not know you with this short hair !
you have improve so , you little boy ! – but how pale you be ! '
' yes , I feel very weak , ' she say with a smile , and her lip tremble again .
' we will go to Italy and you will soon get well , ' say he .
' be it possible that we shall be like husband and wife , alone , a family , you and I ? ' she say , look closely into his eye .
' I be only surprised that it could ever have be otherwise . '
' Steve say he will agree to anything , but I can not accept his generosity , ' she say dreamily , gaze past Vronsky 's face . ' I do not want a divorce .
nothing matter to I now . only I do not know what to decide about Serezha . '
he be quite unable to understand how she could , at the moment of their first reunion , think about her son and divorce .
as if all that be not immaterial !
' do not talk and do not think about it ' he say , play with her hand and try to draw her attention to himself ; but she continue to gaze past he .
' oh , why do I not die ? it would have be good ! ' she say , the tear stream noiselessly down her cheek ; but unwilling to pain he , she try to smile .
to refuse the flattering offer of a post at Tashkend , which be a dangerous one , would have seem disgraceful and impossible accord to Vronsky 's former view .
but now without a moment 's hesitation he do refuse it and , observe that his superior frown upon his action , at once resign his commission .
a month later Karenin and his son be leave alone in the house , and Anna go abroad with Vronsky – not only without get a divorce but having resolutely refuse it .
volume two PART v
the princess SHCHERBATSKAYA at first considered it out of the question to have the wedding before Advent , to which there remain but five week , but could not help agree with Levin that to put it off until after the Fast might involve wait too long , for Prince Shcherbatsky 's old aunt be very ill and likely to die soon , and then the family would be in mourning and the wedding would have to be considerably defer .
consequently , having decide to divide her daughter 's trousseau into two part , a less and a large , the Princess eventually consent to have the wedding before Advent .
she decide that she would have the small part of the trousseau get ready at once , and would send on the large part later ; and she be very cross with Levin because he could not give she a serious answer to her question whether he agree with this arrangement or not .
this plan would be all the more convenient because the young couple intend immediately after the wedding to go to the country , where the large part of the trousseau would not be require .
Levin continue in the same condition of delirium as before ; imagine that he and his joy be the chief or only purpose of all existence , and that he need not now think or bother about anything , as other people would see to everything for he .
he have not even any plan or aim for the future , but leave these to other to decide , quite sure that everything would turn out splendidly .
his brother Sergius Ivanich , Oblonsky , and the Princess direct his action .
he quite agree to every proposal .
his brother borrow money for he , the Princess advise he to return to the country after the wedding , and Oblonsky suggest go abroad .
he agree to everything .
' do whatever you like , whatever please you !
I be happy , and my happiness can not be make or mar by anything you do , ' he think .
when he tell Kitty of Oblonsky 's advice that they should go abroad , he be quite surprised at her opposition to it and to find that she have definite idea of her own about their future life .
she know that in the country Levin have work of which he be fond .
as he see , she not only do not understand that work but do not wish to understand it .
this , however , do not prevent she consider it very important , and besides , she know their home would be in the country , and she want to go – not abroad , where they be not go to live – but to where her home would be .
this decide expression of her wish surprise Levin , but , as it be quite immaterial to he , he at once beg Oblonsky to go to the house in the country , just as if it be Oblonsky 's duty to go , and arrange everything there accord to his own good taste .
' I say , ' Oblonsky ask Levin one day after his return from the country , where he have make all preparation for the young couple , ' have you get a certificate to show that you have receive communion ? '
why ? '
' they will not marry you without it . '
' oh dear ! ' exclaim Levin . ' I think it be nine year since I go to communion !
I have not think about it . '
' you be a good one ! ' remark Oblonsky , laugh . ' and you call I a Nihilist !
but it will not do , you know ; you must confess and receive the sacrament . '
' when ?
there be only four day leave . '
but Oblonsky arrange that too .
Levin begin to prepare himself .
to he , as an agnostic who yet respect the religious belief of other , it be always very try to be present at , or to take part in , any religious ceremony .
in his present state of mind , soften and sensitive to everything , to be oblige to pretend be not only try but appear impossible .
now , in his state of triumph at the flowering time of his life , he be to be oblige to lie or blaspheme !
he feel unable to do either .
but question Oblonsky as he would , as to whether he could not obtain a certificate without go to communion , Oblonsky declare that he must go through with it .
' besides , what do it amount to – two day !
and the priest be such a nice old man .
he will draw that tooth for you so that you will scarcely feel it . '
stand in church during the first service he attend , Levin try to revive the memory of his youth and the strong religious feeling with which at the age of sixteen or seventeen he have be imbue .
but he immediately become convinced that it be out of his power to do so .
he then try to regard it all as a meaningless , empty custom , like make a round of call , but feel equally unable to do that .
in matter of religion Levin , like most of his contemporary , have very indefinite view .
he could not believe in it , and yet be not firmly convinced that it be all false .
therefore , unable either to believe in the importance of what he be do or to look upon it with indifference as an empty form , he , while prepare for confession , feel awkward and ashamed at do something incomprehensible and therefore – as an inner voice tell he – necessarily false and wrong .
during the service he would sometimes listen to the prayer , try to see in they a meaning which would not clash with his opinion , or , find that he could not understand and have to disapprove of they , he would try not to listen but to occupy his mind with observation of what be go on or with recollection which pass with extraordinary clearness through his brain as he stand idly in the church .
he stand through the mass and vesper and evensong , and the next day , having get up early than usual , he go to church before breakfast to hear morning prayer and to confess .
no one else be in the church except a soldier - beggar , two old woman , and the clergy .
the young deacon , the two half of his long back clearly distinguishable through his thin under - cassock , meet he , and go at once to a small table beside the wall , begin read the prayer .
while he be read , and especially during the frequent and rapid repetition of ' Lord , have mercy upon we ! ' – which sound like ' Lordvmercypons ! ' – Levin feel as if his mind be close and seal up , and that , if he do make it stir now , nothing but confusion would result ; therefore as he stand behind the deacon he continue his own train of thought , without listen or try to comprehend what be be read .
' how wonderfully expressive her hand be ! ' he think , recall how they have sit at the corner table the day before .
as be nearly always the case just then , they have nothing to say to each other , and she have put her hand on the table and keep open and close it until she herself begin to laugh at its motion .
he remember how he have kiss the hand and afterwards examine the converge line on the rosy palm .
again ' Lordvmercypons ! ' think he , cross himself , bow , and watch the movement of the bow deacon 's flexible back .
' then she take my hand and examine the line and say , " you have a splendid hand ! " and he glance at the deacon 's stumpy hand and at his own .
' well , it will soon be over now , ' he think .
' no – I believe it be all go to begin again , ' and he listen to the prayer . ' yes , it be come to an end .
there he be , bow down to the ground . that always happen just before the end . '
having stealthily receive a three - rouble note into his hand under its velvet cuff , the deacon say he would put down Levin 's name , and go briskly into the chancel , his new boot clatter over the paved floor of the empty church .
a minute later he put his head out and beckon to Levin .
the seal - up thought begin stir in Levin 's head , but he hasten to drive they away .
' it will get settle somehow , ' he think , and go to the ambo .
on go up the step and turn to the right he see the priest .
the latter , an old man with a thin grizzle beard and kind , weary eye , stand beside the lectern turn over the leave of a missal .
bow slightly to Levin he begin at once in his stereotyped tone to read the prayer .
at the end he bow to the ground and turn to Levin .
' Christ , though unseen , be here present to receive your confession , ' he say , point to a crucifix . ' do you believe in the teaching of the Holy Apostolic Church ? ' continue the priest , turn his eye away and fold his hand beneath his stole .
' I have doubt , and still doubt , everything , ' reply Levin in a voice unpleasant to himself , and stop .
the priest pause a few second to see whether Levin would say anything more , and then close his eye say rapidly , with a strong provincial accent :
' doubt be natural to human weakness , but we must pray that our merciful Lord will strengthen we .
what be your particular sin ? ' he continue without the slight pause , as if anxious not to waste time .
' my chief sin be doubt .
I doubt everything and be in doubt nearly all the time . '
' doubt be natural to human weakness , ' repeat the priest . ' what do you doubt in particular ? '
' everything .
sometimes I even doubt the existence of God , ' say Levin involuntarily , and be horrify at the impropriety of his word .
but they seem to have no effect on the priest .
' what doubt can there be of the existence of God ? ' he ask with a faint smile .
Levin be silent .
' what doubt can you have of the Creator when you see his creation ? ' continue the priest in his rapid , stereotyped voice . ' who have adorn the vault of Heaven with luminary ?
who have deck the earth with beauty ?
how could it all be , without a Creator ? ' he ask , with an inquire glance at Levin .
Levin feel that it would not be proper to enter into a philosophic discussion with a priest , and therefore merely reply to the direct question ,
' I do not know . '
' you do not know ?
' then how can you doubt that God create everything ? ' say the priest in puzzled amazement .
' I do not understand it at all , ' say Levin , blushing , and feel that his word be silly and that they could not but be silly .
' pray to God and entreat he !
even the holy Fathers doubt and pray God to strengthen their faith .
the devil be very powerful and we must resist he .
pray to God , ' he repeat hurriedly .
the priest pause awhile as if in thought .
' I hear you be about to enter into holy matrimony with the daughter of my parishioner and spiritual son , Prince Shcherbatsky ? ' he add with a smile . ' a splendid young woman ! '
' yes , ' answer Levin , with a blush for the priest .
' why need he ask I that at confession ? ' he think .
and as if in answer to the thought , the priest say :
' you be about to enter into matrimony and God may give you child , be it not so ?
then what sort of education can you give your little one if you do not conquer in yourself the temptation of the devil , who be lead you into unbelief ? ' he ask in mild rebuke . ' if you love your offspring , then you , as a kind father , will desire not only rich , luxury , and honour for your child , but will desire his salvation , his spiritual advancement by the light of truth .
be that not so ?
and when your innocent little one ask , " Papa , who have create everything that please I in this world – earth , water , sun , flower , grass ? " what will you say ?
will you really say to he , " I do not know " ?
you can not help know , since God in his great mercy have reveal it to you .
or your child may ask you , " what await I beyond the tomb ? "
what will you tell he if you yourself know nothing ?
how will you answer he ?
will you leave he to the temptation of the world and the devil ?
that be wrong ! ' the priest cease and , with his head on one side , regard Levin with mild kindly eye .
this time Levin do not reply , not because he do not wish to enter upon a discussion with a priest , but because no one have ever yet put such question to he ; and also because , before his little one could begin ask such question , there would be plenty of time to consider what the answer should be .
' you be enter upon a time of life , ' the priest go on , ' when you must choose your path and keep to it , so pray that God in his goodness may help you and have mercy on you ! ' he conclude . ' may the Lord our God Jesus Christ , in the goodness and bounty of his love for mankind , pardon thee ... ' ; and having pronounce the absolution , the priest bless he and let he go .
when he get home that day Levin feel relieved at having do with an unpleasant episode in such a way that he have not be oblige to tell lie .
besides , he be leave with a vague feeling that what the nice kind old man have say to he be not as stupid as it have seem at first , and that there be something in it that ought to be elucidate .
' of course , not now , ' think he , ' but later on . '
he feel more than ever before that there be a kind of vagueness in his soul , a want of clearness , and that with regard to religion he be in the same position that he see so distinctly and dislike in other ; and for which he find fault with his friend Sviyazhsky .
he spend that evening with his betroth at the Oblonskys ' and be in particularly high spirit . explain to Oblonsky the state of elation he be in , he say he feel as pleased as a dog that be be teach to jump through a hoop , and which , having accomplish what be demand of it , bark and wag its tail and jump for joy upon the table and window - sill .
ON his wedding - DAY Levin , accord to custom – the Princess and Dolly insist on his strictly conform to custom – do not see his bride , and dine at his hotel with three bachelor who happen to drop in . Sergius Ivanich , Katavasov , an old fellow - student at the university and now a professor of Natural Science , whom Levin have chance to meet in the street and induce to come , and Chirikov , his good man , a Moscow magistrate , and a bear - hunt comrade of Levin 's .
the dinner be a very merry one .
Sergius Ivanich be in the good of spirit and be tickle by Katavasov 's originality .
Katavasov , feel that his originality be observe and appreciate , show it off .
Chirikov gaily and good - naturedly back up every one else .
' there now ! ' say Katavasov with a drawl , a habit he have fall into when lecture . ' what a talented fellow our friend Constantine Dmitrich use to be !
I be speak of one who be not with we , because he be no more .
in those day he love science . when he leave the university he have human interest ; but now half his talent be bent on self - deception , and the other half toward justification of that deception . '
' I have never come across a more . decide foe of marriage than yourself , ' remark Sergius Ivanich .
' no . I be no foe of marriage , but I believe in division of labour !
person who can do nothing else must make man , and the other must help they to culture and happiness .
that be how I look at it .
there be host of aspirant who aim at mix those two profession but I be not one of they ! '
' how delighted I shall be when I hear of your fall in love ! ' say Levin . ' pray invite I to your wedding ! '
' I be in love already . '
' yes , with a mollusc !
do you know , ' say Levin turn to his brother , ' Katavasov be write a work on nutriment and ... '
' oh , do not confuse matter !
what do it matter what I write about ?
the fact be , I really do love mollusc . '
' but they would not prevent you love a wife ! '
' they would not , but the wife would . '
' why ? '
' oh , you would soon find out !
now you like farming sport ... well , you just wait and see ! '
' you know , Arkhip come to - day to say that in Prudnoye there be lot of elk and two bear , ' say Chirikov .
' well , you will have to get they without I . '
' there you be ! ' say Sergius Ivanich . ' good - bye to bear - hunting in future ! your wife will not allow it . '
the idea that his wife would not allow it seem so agreeable that he be prepared to forgo the pleasure of ever set eye on a bear again .
' all the same , it be a pity that those two bear will be kill without you .
do you remember that time in Hapilovka ?
what fine sport we have ! ' say Chirikov .
Levin do not wish to deprive he of the illusion that some - where there could be something good without she , therefore he say nothing .
' this custom of take leave of celibacy be not without its reason , ' say Sergius Ivanich . ' however happy you may be , you can not help regret your freedom . '
' now confess that you feel like the bridegroom in Gogol 's play who jump out of the window ? ' tease Chirikov .
' of course he feel so , but will not own up , ' say Katavasov , and burst out laugh .
' well , the window be open ...
let we be off to Tver .
one be a she - bear . we can go straight for the lair .
yes , let us catch the five o'clock train !
and leave they to do as they please here , ' say Chirikov , smile .
' I be ready to swear I can not find in my soul a trace of regret for my freedom , ' say Levin , with a smile .
' ah , but your soul be in such chaos at the present moment that you be unable to find anything there ! wait till you 've settle down a bit , then you will find it , ' say Katavasov .
' no , I should even now have some consciousness that despite my feeling ' ( he do not wish in Katavasov 's presence to use the word love ) ' and my happiness I be yet sorry to lose my freedom .
but quite on the contrary , it be precisely of this loss of freedom that I be glad ! '
' very bad !
a hopeless case ! ' say Katavasov . ' well , let we drink to his recovery , or let we wish that at least a hundredth part of his dream come true .
even that will be such joy as be never see on earth ! '
soon after dinner the visitor leave to get ready for the wedding .
when he be alone , Levin , think over the remark of the three bachelor , once more ask himself whether there be in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they have be speak about .
the question make he smile .
' freedom ?
what be the good of freedom ?
happiness consist only in love and desiring : in wish her wish and in think her thought , which mean have no freedom whatever ; that be happiness ! '
' but do I know her thought , wish , or feeling ? ' a voice suddenly whisper .
the smile fade from his face and he ponder .
and all at once a strange sensation come over he .
he be possess by fear and doubt , doubt of everything .
' suppose she do not love I ?
suppose she be only marry I just to get marry ?
suppose she do not herself know what she be do ? ' he ask himself . ' she might bethink herself and only when she be already marry find out that she do not and never could love I ... '
and strange and most evil thought about she come into his mind .
he become jealous of Vronsky just as he have be the year before , as if it have be but yesterday that he see she with he .
he suspect that she have not tell he the whole truth .
suddenly he jump up .
' no , this will not do ! ' he say to himself despairingly . ' I will go to she and tell she for the last time that we be now free , and that perhaps we have well keep so !
anything would be well than continual shame , misery , infidelity ! '
with his heart full of despair and bitterness toward every one , toward himself and she , he leave the hotel and go to she .
he find she in one of the back room .
she be sit on a trunk and make some arrangement with one of the maid , sort a pile of differently coloured dress that hang over the back of chair or lie on the floor .
' oh ! ' she cry when she see he , and her face light up with joy . ' why have you ... ?
well , I ... this be a surprise !
and I be sort my old dress to give they away ... '
' ah , that be very nice ; ' he say gloomily , with a glance at the maid .
I will call you , ' say Kitty . ' what be the matter with you ? ' she ask as soon as the maid be go .
she have notice his strange expression , at once excited and gloomy , and be seize with alarm .
' Kitty , I be in torture !
I can not bear it alone , ' he cry in a despairing tone , stand before she and look imploringly into her eye .
already in her love , truthful face he could read that what he be go to tell she would lead to nothing , yet he feel that he still want to hear her disavowal .
' I have come to say that there be still time ...
all this business can still be put a stop to ! '
I do not understand in the least .
what be the matter with you ? ' ' what I have say a thousand time and can not help think – that I be not worthy of you !
it can not be that you have agree to marry I .
think it over ... you have make a mistake .
think it well over !
you can not love I ? ...
I ... you would well tell I ... ' he go on without look at she . ' I shall be unhappy , of course .
let they all say what they like : anything be well than the misfortune ...
anyhow , it would be well now while there be still time ! '
' I do not understand , ' she say , thoroughly frightened . ' do you mean you refuse ... why stop ... ? '
' yes , if you do not love I . '
' be you mad ? ' she exclaim , flush with vexation ; but his face be so piteous that she suppress her vexation , and throw the dress on a chair sit down close to he .
' what be you think about ? tell I everything . '
' I think you can not love I .
what could you love I for ? '
' o God , what can I do ... ' she cry , and begin to weep .
' oh , what have I do ! ' he exclaim , and kneel before she he begin kiss her hand .
when the Princess come in five minute later she find they quite reconcile .
Kitty have not only assure he that she love he , but have even give he , in answer to his question , the reason why .
she tell he she love he because she completely understand he , because she know that it be necessary for he to love , and that all that he love be good .
this seem quite clear to he .
when the Princess enter they be sit side by side on the trunk , sort the dress and dispute because Kitty want to give Dunyasha the brown dress she have wear when Levin propose to she , while he insist that that dress should not be give to anyone and that she should give Dunyasha a blue one instead .
' how be it you do not understand ?
she be dark and it will not suit she ...
I have consider it all . '
when the Princess hear why he have come , she grow angry half in fun and half in earnest , and tell he to go home and dress and not to delay Kitty , whose hair have to be do by the hairdresser , due to arrive immediately .
' she have scarcely eat anything all these day and have grow quite plain ; and here you come and upset she with your nonsense ! ' say she . ' be off , be off , my dear ! '
guilty and ashamed , but comfort , Levin return to his hotel .
his brother , Dolly , and Oblonsky , all in evening dress , be wait to bless he with the icon .
Dolly have to return home to fetch her son , who , his hair oil and curl , be to drive in the bride 's carriage and hold an icon .
then a carriage have to be send to fetch the groomsman , and another be to take Sergius Ivanich and return again .
altogether there be many complicated arrangement to consider .
one thing be certain : there be no time to be lose , for it be already half - past six .
the Blessing be not a success .
Oblonsky , stand in a comically - solemn attitude beside his wife , take the icon and tell Levin to bow to the ground ; then he bless he , smile a kindly amused smile , and kiss he three time . Dolly do the same , then she hurry away and again become confused about the arrangement for the carriage .
' then this be what we must do : you go and fetch he in our carriage , and Sergius Ivanich , if he will be so kind , will go first and will send the carriage back . '
' of course , I shall be very pleased ! '
' and we will follow immediately with he ...
have your trunk be send off ? ' inquire Oblonsky .
' yes , they have , ' reply Levin , and tell Kuzma to get his thing out that he might dress .
a CROWD of PEOPLE , mostly woman , have assemble outside the church , which be brightly light up for the wedding .
those who have arrive too late to get into the middle of the throng press round the window , push and dispute and try to peer in between the bar .
More than twenty carriage have already be range along the street by the mount police .
a police - officer , unmindful of the frost , stand at the entrance look brilliant in his blue uniform .
More carriage keep drive up , and now lady with flower in their hair get out , hold up their train ; or man appear who doff their military cap or black hat as they enter the church .
inside the building the candle in both chandelier be already light , as well as all the candle in front of the icon .
the golden glitter on the crimson background of the iconostasis , the gilt ornament of the icon , the silver of the chandelier and candlestick , the flagstone of the floor , the mat , the banner above the choir , the step of the ambo , the ancient book black with age , the cassock and surplice , be all inundate with light .
on the right of the well - heat church a staid though animated conversation be go on amidst the swallow - tail coat , white tie , uniform , brocade , velvet and satin , hair , flower , bare shoulder and arm and long glove – the sound of which re - echo strangely from the high dome above .
every time the door creak every one turn round , expect to see the bride and bridegroom enter .
but the door have open more than ten time and each time it turn out to be a guest who have be detain and now join the crowd on the right , or a spectator who have manage to deceive or soften the heart of the police officer and who join the throng of stranger on the left ; and both relative and spectator have pass through every phase of anticipation .
at first they expect the bride and bridegroom to enter at any moment , and attach no importance to the delay .
then they turn more and more often toward the door , wonder whether anything have happen .
at length the delay become awkward , and the friend and relative try to look as if they be not think about the bride and bridegroom but be absorb in their conversation .
the archdeacon , as if to draw attention to the value of his time , cough impatiently , make the window vibrate .
from the choir , grow weary of wait , come the sound of voice be try and the blowing of nose .
the priest continually send a chanter or deacon to see whether the bridegroom have arrive , and he himself , in his purple surplice with the embroider girdle , go with increase frequency to the side door in expectation of the bridegroom .
at last one of the lady look at her watch and say , ' well , this be strange ! ' and then all the guest become restless and express their surprise and dissatisfaction aloud .
the good man go to find out what have occur .
all this while Kitty , long since ready in her white dress , long veil , and crown of orange blossom , stand with an old lady who be to accompany she and her sister , the Princess Lvova , at a window of the ballroom at the Shcherbatskys ' for the last half hour vainly expect her good man to come and announce that the bridegroom have reach the church .
Levin meanwhile , in trouser but without coat or waistcoat , be pace up and down his room , perpetually put his head out at the door and glance up the corridor .
but in the corridor there be nobody , and in despair he return and address Oblonsky , who be quietly smoke .
' be ever a man in such a terribly idiotic position ' he demand .
' yes , it be stupid , ' Oblonsky concur with a soothe smile . ' but do not worry , it will be here in a minute . '
' oh , how can I help it ? ' say Levin with suppress fury . ' and these idiotic open waistcoat – it be impossible ! '
he glance at his crumple shirt - front . ' and suppose the thing have already go to the station ! ' he exclaim in despair .
' then you will have to wear mine . '
' I ought to have do that long ago . '
' it be well not to look ridiculous . wait !
it will all " shape itself ' ! '
the fact of the matter be that when Levin tell his old servant Kuzma to get his thing ready , Kuzma have duly bring his dress coat , waistcoat and what else he consider necessary .
' but the shirt ? ' Levin exclaim .
' you 've get it on , ' Kuzma reply with a quiet smile .
he have not think of leave out a clean shirt , and having be tell to pack everything and send it to the Shcherbatskys ' , whence they be to start that evening , he have do so and have leave out only the dress suit .
the shirt Levin have be wear since the morning be crumpled and quite unfit to wear with the fashionable low - cut waistcoat .
it be too far to send to the Shcherbatskys ' , so they send out to buy one ; but as it be Sunday all the shop have close early .
they send for one of Oblonsky 's , but it be much too wide and too short .
they be oblige to send to the Shcherbatskys ' after all , and the thing have to be unpacked .
meantime in the church every one be wait for the bridegroom ; while he be pace up and down like a caged beast , look despairingly along the corridor , remember all he have say to Kitty and wonder what she must be think now .
at last the guilty Kuzma , quite out of breath , rush in with the shirt .
' only just in time – they be hoist the trunk into the cart , ' he gasp .
three minute later Levin , not look at the clock to avoid upset himself still more , run as fast as he could down the corridor .
' that will not help matter , ' remark Oblonsky , smile and follow without haste . ' it will all " shape itself , " all " shape itself ' ... I assure you ! '
' here they be ! there he be ! which one ? be it the young one ? and look at she , poor dear ! more dead than alive ! ' people in the crowd be say as Levin meet his bride at the door and enter the church with she .
Oblonsky tell his wife the reason of the delay , and the guest smile and whisper to one another .
Levin see no one and nothing ; he do not take his eye off his bride .
every one say she have grow plainer during the last few day , and in her bridal dress be nothing like so pretty as usual ; but Levin think otherwise .
he look at her hair dress high beneath the long veil and white flower , at the high frill that cover her long neck at the side and show it in front in a particularly maidenly way , and at her strikingly slender waist . he think she be pretty than ever : not that those flower , the veil , or the dress order from Paris enhance her beauty in any way , but because , despite all the carefully plan richness of her attire , the look on her sweet face and lip be still that look of innocent truthfulness .
' I think you mean to run away , ' she say , smile at he .
' it be such a stupid thing that happen ! I be ashamed to tell it , ' he say with a blush , and be oblige to turn round to the approach Sergius Ivanich .
' nice story that , about your shirt ! ' say Sergius Ivanich with a smile and shake of the head .
' yes , yes ! ' answer Levin , unable to understand what be be say .
' now then , Kostya ! ' say Oblonsky , feign consternation . ' you 've get to decide an important point , and you be in exactly the right frame of mind to appreciate its importance .
I have be ask whether you will have new candle or use one to hold ?
the difference be ten rouble , ' he add , pucker his lip into a smile . ' I have settle it , but perhaps you will not be satisfied . '
though he know it be a joke , Levin could not smile .
' well then , be it to be fresh candle or use one ? that be the question ! '
' yes , yes ! fresh one . '
' well , I be very glad that question be settle , ' say Oblonsky with a smile . ' how stupid people do become under these circumstance ! ' he go on , turn to Chirikov , when Levin with an absentminded glance at he move off toward his bride .
' Kitty , mind you step first upon the mat ! ' say Countess Nordston , come up to they . ' you be a fine fellow ! ' she add , address Levin .
' be not you frightened ? ' ask Kitty 's old aunt Mary Dmitrievna .
' be you cold ?
you look pale .
wait a moment , put your head down , ' say Kitty 's sister , Princess Lvova , and raise her plump , beautiful arm she adjust the flower on Kitty 's head .
dolly advance and be about to say something , but could not speak and begin cry and laugh in an unnatural manner .
Kitty gaze at everybody with a look as absent - minded as Levin 's .
meanwhile the clergy put on their vestment and the priest and deacon come forward to the lectern that stand near the entrance door .
the priest turn to Levin and say something that Levin do not hear .
' take the bride 's hand and lead she , ' say the good man .
for a long time Levin could not be make to understand what he have to do , and they be a long while try to set he right .
just as they be go to give it up because he would either use the wrong hand or else take she by the wrong one , he at last comprehend that he with his right hand , without change his position , must take she by her right hand .
when at last he have take her hand properly , the priest go a few step in front of they and halt at the lectern .
the crowd of friend and relative , their voice buzz and the lady ' train rustle , move after they .
some one stoop down to arrange the bride 's veil .
the church become so quiet that the drop of wax be hear fall from the candle .
the old priest , with his sacerdotal headgear and his lock of grey hair , glisten like silver , comb back behind his ear , draw his small old hand out from beneath his vestment of heavy silver cloth with a large gold cross on the back , and begin turn over some page on the lectern .
Oblonsky step up cautiously , whisper something to he , make a sign to Levin , and step back again .
the priest light two wax candle decorate with flower , and hold they askew in his left hand so that the wax keep slowly dripping , turn to the young couple .
it be the same priest who have hear Levin 's confession .
he look wearily and sadly at the bride and bridegroom , sigh , and disengage his right hand from the vestment , hold it up in blessing over the bridegroom , and then over the bride ; only in his manner when he place his finger on Kitty 's bow head there be a shade of tenderness .
then he give they the candle , take the censer , and slowly step away from they .
' be it really true ? ' think Levin , and glance round at his bride .
he could see her profile slightly from above , and by the just perceptible movement of her lip and eyelash he know she be aware of his look .
she do not turn , but her high frilled collar move , rise to her pink little ear .
he see that a sigh have be suppress within her breast and that the little hand in its long glove hold the candle tremble .
all the worry about his shirt , his lateness , the conversation of their relative , their displeasure and his ridiculous mishap , suddenly vanish from his mind and he feel happy though scared .
the handsome , tall senior deacon in a silver cloth alb , his curl hair part down the middle , come briskly forward lift his stole with a practise movement of two finger , and stop opposite the priest .
' bless we , Lord ! ' slowly succeed one another , and vibratingly resonant , come the solemn tone .
' bless be our God , now and hereafter , for ever and ever ! ' reply the old priest meekly , in a sing - song voice , continue to turn something over on the lectern .
then , harmoniously fill the whole church from window to vault roof , a full chord sing by the invisible choir rise , swell , hang for a moment , and softly die away .
there be prayer as usual for the world above , for salvation , for the Synod , for the Emperor , and also for the servant of God that day wed , Constantine and Catherine .
' let we pray to the Lord that he may send they perfect love , peace , and help ! ' the whole church seem to breathe with the senior deacon 's voice .
Levin listen to the word and be strike by they .
' how do they find out that it be help , exactly help that I need ? ' he wonder , remember his late fear and doubt .
' what do I know ? what can I do in this awful matter without help ?
help be exactly what I need now ! '
when the deacon have finish the prayer for the imperial family , the priest hold a book turn to the bride and bridegroom .
' eternal God who joinest they that be separate , ' he read in his mild sing - song voice , ' and hast ordain for they an indissoluble union in love ; Thou who didst bless Isaac and Rebecca and hast keep thy promise to their heir , bless these Thy servant , Constantine and Catherine , and lead they on the path of righteousness ! most merciful God , Lover of man , we praise Thee !
glory be to the Father , and to the Son , and to the Holy Ghost , now and hereafter and for ever and ever ! ' ' amen ! ' from the invisible choir , again float through the air .
' " join they that be separate " – what a depth of meaning be in those word , and how well they fit in with what I be feel at this moment ! ' think Levin . do she feel the same ? '
look round he meet her eye .
from the expression in they he conclude that she understand they as he do ; but this be not so .
she understand hardly anything of the service and be not even listen to the word of the ceremony .
she could neither listen nor understand , so deep be the one feeling that fill her soul and become ever strong and strong .
it be a feeling of joy at the fruition of what have be for the last month and a half go on in her soul , of that which for those six week have gladden and torture she .
on the day when , in the ballroom of the house in Arbat Street , she in her brown dress have go up to he and silently plight herself to he , on that day and in that hour a complete rupture seem to have take place within her soul between her former life and this other new and entirely unknown life – although in fact the old life still go on .
those six week have be the most blissful and at the same time the most try of her life .
the whole of her life , all her desire and hope , be concentrate on this one man , still incomprehensible to she , to whom she be bind by a feeling – even more incomprehensible than the man himself – which now attract and now repel she .
meantime she go on live under the condition of her old life and be horrify at herself , at her utter and unconquerable indifference to all her past , the thing , habit , and people who have love and still love she , to her mother who be hurt by her indifference , to her dear , affectionate father whom she have previously love more than anyone else on earth .
at one moment she be horrified at this indifference , and the next moment rejoice at that which cause her indifference .
she could not think of or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life have not yet begin , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
there be only anticipation , fear , and joy at something new and unknown ; and now at any moment the anticipation and uncertainty , and the remorse at repudiate her former life , would all come to an end and something new would begin .
this new life could not help be terrible in consequence of its incertitude , but terrible or not it be already an accomplished fact within her soul six week ago , and be now only be sanctify .
again turn to the reading - desk the priest with some difficulty pick up Kitty 's little ring , and ask Levin for his hand put the ring on the tip of his finger .
' the servant of God , Constantine , be betroth to the servant of God , Catherine , ' and having put a big ring on Kitty 's slender , rosy finger , pathetic in its weakness , the priest repeat the same word .
several time the couple try to guess what be expect of they , and blunder each time , the priest prompt they in whisper .
when what be necessary have at length be comply with , he make the sign of the cross over they with the ring and again give the large one to Kitty and the little one to Levin , and again they blunder and pass the ring twice backwards and forwards without do what be necessary .
Dolly , Chirikov , and Oblonsky come forward to help they .
the result be some confusion , whispering , and smile , but the expression of solemn emotion on the young couple 's face do not change ; on the contrary , while they fumble with their hand they look even more solemn and serious than before , and the smile with which Oblonsky whisper to they to put on their ring involuntarily die on his lip .
he feel that any kind of smile would hurt their feeling .
' Thou hast from the beginning create they male and female , ' read the priest when they have exchange ring . ' through thee the wife be knit to the husband for a helpmeet and to procreate the human race .
therefore , o God our Lord , who sentest down thy truth upon Thy heritage , and gavest Thy promise to our father from generation to generation of Thy choose people , look down upon thy servant Constantine and Thy servant Catherine and strengthen they in their union with faith and concord in truth and love ... '
Levin feel more and more that his idea of marriage and his dream of how he would arrange his life have be but childishness , and that this be something he have never understand and be now still far from understanding , although it be happen to he ; and in his breast a tremor rise higher and high , and the unruly tear come to his eye .
all Moscow , include both relative and friend , have congregate in the church .
during the marriage ceremony , in the brilliantly illuminated building , among the crowd of elegantly dress woman and girl and man in evening dress with white tie , or in uniform , conversation in the low tone require by propriety never flag . it be usually start by the man , for the woman be absorb in watch every detail of the service , which always fascinate they .
in the circle nearest the bride be her two sister , Dolly the elder and the calm and beautiful Princess Lvova , who have come from abroad .
' why be Marie in lilac ? it be almost as unsuitable at a wedding as black , ' remark Mrs. Korsunskaya .
' with her complexion it be her only salvation , ' reply Princess Drubetskaya . ' I wonder they be have the wedding in the evening , like tradespeople . '
' it be more showy .
I be marry in the evening too , ' answer Mrs. Korsunskaya , and sigh as she remember how sweet she have look that day , how funnily enamour her husband then be , and how different thing be now .
' they say that one who have be good man more than ten time never marry , and I want to be one for the tenth time to make myself safe , but be too late , ' Count Sinyavin be say to the pretty young Princess Charskaya , who have design on he .
she answer only with a smile .
she be look at Kitty and thinking of the time when she would be stand there beside Count Sinyavin , just as Kitty now stand , and how she would then remind he of his joke .
Young Shcherbatsky tell the old Maid of Honour Nikolayeva that he intend to put the crown on Kitty 's chignon , to make she happy .
' one ought not to wear a chignon , ' reply the Maid of Honour , who have long ago make up her mind that if the old widower for whom she be angle ever marry she , their wedding should be of the simple .
Koznyshev be talk to Dolly , jokingly assure she that the custom of go away after the wedding be spread because newly - marry couple always feel rather uncomfortable .
' your brother have a right to feel proud .
she be wonderfully sweet .
you must be feel envious . '
' I be past all that , Darya Alexandrovna , ' he answer , and his face become unexpectedly sad and serious .
Oblonsky be tell his sister - in - law the pun he have make about ' dissolve marriage . '
' I must put her wreath straight , ' she reply , without listen .
' what a pity she have grow so much plainer ! ' remark Countess Nordston to the Princess Lvova . ' all the same he be not worth her little finger .
do not you agree ? '
' no , I like he very much , and not just because he will be my brother - in - law , ' answer the Princess . ' how well he behave !
and it be so difficult to behave well under these circumstance , and not be ridiculous – and he be not ridiculous or stiff , and be evidently touch . '
' I suppose you quite expect this ? '
' almost .
she always like he . '
' well , let we see which of they will step first on the mat !
I have give Kitty my advice . '
' it do not matter , ' reply Princess Lvova . ' we be all submissive wife , it be in our nature . '
' well , I step on the mat before vasily !
and you , Dolly ? '
Dolly , who be stand near , hear , but do not reply .
her eye be moist and she could not have speak without burst into tear .
she rejoice at the sight of Kitty and Levin , but go back to the past she think of her own wedding , keep glance at the beam Oblonsky , and , forget the present , recollect nothing but her own young and innocent love .
she remember not herself only , but all the woman with whom she be intimate or acquaint : thought of they as they have be at that most solemn moment of their life when , like Kitty , they have stand beneath the nuptial crown with love , hope and fear in their heart , renounce the past and enter upon the mystic future . among the bride that come to her mind be her dear Anna , about whose impending divorce she have hear a while ago .
she too have once stand with veil head , pure and crown with orange blossom .
' and now ? how strange ! ' she murmur .
all the detail of the ceremony be follow not only by the two sister , the friend and relative , but also by woman onlooker who be quite stranger , and who – breathless with excitement and afraid of miss anything , even a single movement or expression of the bride 's or bridegroom 's face , and annoy by the indifference of the man – do not answer and indeed often do not hear the latter when they jest or make irrelevant remark .
' why be her face so tear - stain ?
be she be marry against her will ? '
' against her will , indeed , to such a fine fellow !
be he a Prince ? '
' and be that her sister in white satin ? ...
now hear how the deacon will roar , " wife , obey your husband " ! '
' be it the Chudovsky Choir ? '
' no , the Synod 's . '
' I ask the footman .
it seem he will take she to his estate straight off . '
' he be dreadfully rich , they say .
that be why they have give she to he . '
' oh no , they be a very nice couple . '
' there now , Mary Vasilyevna ! you be maintain that crinoline be be wear full at the back !
just look at that one in the puce dress – an ambassador 's wife , they say .
see how it be drape : this way , and back again . '
' what a darle the bride be , like a lamb deck for the slaughter !
but whatever you may say , one do feel sorry for a girl . '
so chatter the crowd of woman who have manage to get inside the church .
when the first part of the ceremony be over , a verger spread out a piece of pink silk cloth in front of the lectern . the choir begin singe a psalm to some elaborate and complicated melody in which the bass and tenor continually repeat each other ; and the priest , turn round , motion the couple to the piece of pink silk .
often as they have hear the saying that the one who step first on the mat would be head of the household , neither Levin nor Kitty could think of that as they take those few step , nor do they hear the loud remark and dispute of those who maintain that he be first , and of other who say that they do it both together .
after the usual question of whether they wish to be marry and whether they have promise themselves to other , and their answer , which sound strange to themselves , the second part of the service begin .
Kitty listen to the word of the prayer , try to comprehend their meaning but unable to do so .
triumph and radiant joy fill her heart more and more as the ceremony proceed , and make it impossible for she to be attentive .
they pray : ' that they may live in chastity for the good of the fruit of the womb , and find joy in their son and daughter . '
it be declare that God have create woman from Adam 's rib , and that ' for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife , and they twain shall be one flesh ' ; and that ' this be a great mystery . ' they pray that God should make they fruitful and bless they as he bless Isaac and Rebecca , Joseph , Moses and Zipporah , and that they should see their child 's child .
' it be all very beautiful , ' think Kitty as she hear these word , ' and could not be different . ' and a smile of joy , which involuntarily communicate itself to all who regard she , shine on her radiant face .
' put it quite on ! ' come the word of advice when the priest have put crown on their head and Shcherbatsky , his hand in its three - buttoned glove trembling , hold the crown high above Kitty 's head .
' put it on , ' she whisper , smile .
Levin glance round at she , be strike by the joyous radiance of her face , and be involuntarily infect by her feeling .
he feel bright and joyous as she do .
with light heart they hear the Epistle read and the roll of the senior deacon 's voice in the last verse , for which the outsider present have be wait impatiently .
with light heart they drink the warm wine and water from the shallow cup , and their spirit rise still high when the priest , throw back his vestment , take their hand in his and lead they round the lectern while a bass voice sing , rejoice o Isaiah !
Young Shcherbatsky and Chirikov , who be support the crown and get entangle in the bride 's train , smile too and be pleased without know why , when they chance to lag behind or jostle the young couple if the priest happen to stop .
the spark of joy that be glow in Kitty 's heart seem to have spread to every one in the church .
Levin fancy that the priest and deacon want to smile just as he do .
having lift the crown from their head , the priest read the last prayer and congratulate the married couple .
Levin glance at Kitty and think he have never see she like that before , so enchanting with the new light of happiness irradiate her face .
he wish to speak to she , but do not know whether it be all over yet .
the priest help he out of the difficulty , say softly , with a smile on his kindly mouth , ' kiss your wife ; and you , kiss your husband ! ' he take the candle from their hand .
Levin kiss she carefully on her smile lip , offer his arm , and with a feeling of strange closeness lead she out of the church .
he could not believe it be all true and only realize it when their surprised and timid glance meet and he feel that they be already one .
after supper that same night the young couple leave for the country .
VRONSKY and ANNA have already be travel together in Europe for three month .
they have visit Venice , Rome , and Naples , and have only just reach a small italian town where they mean to make a long stay .
a handsome head - waiter , his thick hair grease with pomatum and part from the nape upward , dress in a swallow - tail coat , with a wide lawn shirt - front and a bundle of charm dangle on his rotund stomach , with his hand in his pocket , his eye screw up contemptuously , be answer a bystander 's question in a severe tone .
hear step ascend the stair at the other side of the entrance , the waiter turn and recognize the Russian Count who occupy the good room in the hotel . he respectfully take his hand out of his pocket , bow , and say that the courier have be , and that the business of rent the palazzo be settle .
the steward be ready to sign the contract .
' ah , I be very glad , ' say Vronsky . ' and be the lady in ? '
' the lady have be for a walk , but have now return , ' reply the waiter .
Vronsky take off his soft , broad - brimmed hat and wipe his perspiring forehead and his hair , which he have allow to grow half - way down his ear and wore brush back so as to hide his bald patch .
after an absent - minded glance at the man who be still stand there watch he , he be about to go in .
' this gentleman be a Russian and be ask about you , ' say the head - waiter .
with a mixture of vexation at the impossibility of evade his acquaintance anywhere and of desire to find something to distract the monotony of his life , Vronsky look round again at the man , who have first move away and then halt ; and at the same moment the eye of both brighten .
' Golenishchev ! '
' vronsky ! '
it be really Golenishchev , his fellow - student in the Corps des Pages .
in the Corps Golenishchev have be a Liberal , have leave the Corps a civilian , and have never serve .
on leave the Corps the two friend have separate and have meet but once since then .
on that occasion Vronsky find that Golenishchev have choose some high - fly liberal activity and therefore feel he must despise Vronsky 's profession and activity .
consequently Vronsky have then treat he with the cold , proud aloofness of which he be master , which mean : ' you may like or dislike my way of life . it be a matter of absolute indifference to I , but if you wish to know I you must respect I . '
and Golenishchev have remain contemptuously indifferent to Vronsky 's attitude , so that that meeting ought to have separate they still far .
yet now they brighten up and exclaim with pleasure at recognize one another .
Vronsky would never have think he could be so pleased to see Golenishchev , but probably he be himself unaware how bored he be .
he forget the unpleasant impression leave by their last encounter , and with an open and joyful countenance hold out his hand to his old schoolfellow .
a similar expression of pleasure replace the former anxious look on Golenishchev 's face .
' how pleased I be to see you ! ' say Vronsky , a friendly smile disclose his fine white tooth .
' I hear the name of Vronsky but I do not know which Vronsky .
I be very , very pleased . '
' come in !
well , and what be you do ? '
' oh , I have be here over a year .
I be work . '
' ah ! ' say Vronsky in an interested tone . ' well , come in . '
and accord to the usual way with Russians , instead of say what he want to hide from the servant in Russian , he begin speak French .
' you know Madame Karenina ?
we be travel together .
I be now go to she , ' he say in French , attentively watch Golenishchev 's expression .
' ah ?
I do not know , ' Golenishchev reply in a tone of indifference , though he be quite aware of it . ' be here long ? ' he add .
three day , ' answer Vronsky , still attentively scrutinize his friend 's face .
' yes , he be a decent fellow and look at the matter in the right way , ' say Vronsky to himself , understand the meaning of the other 's look and the change of subject . ' I can introduce he to Anna , as he see the matter rightly . '
during the three month he have spend abroad with Anna , Vronsky when come across new people have always ask himself how the new person would be likely to regard his relation with Anna , and in most case he have find that the man he meet understand it in the ' right ' way .
but have he , and those who understand the matter in the ' right ' way , be ask what this understanding amount to , they would have be much puzzle how to reply .
at bottom , those who in Vronsky 's opinion understand it the ' right ' way do not understand it in any special way , but behave in general as well - breed person do with regard to all the complicated and unanswerable problem which surround life on every side : they conduct themselves properly , avoid insinuation and inconvenient question .
they pretend to understand completely the significance and meaning of the situation , to countenance and even approve of it , but to consider it out of place and unnecessary to explain all this .
Vronsky at once guess that Golenishchev be one of that sort , and be therefore doubly pleased to have meet he ; and Golenishchev behave to Anna , when he have be introduce , as well as Vronsky could have wish .
evidently he avoid , without the least effort , everything in conversation that might have sound awkward .
he have never meet Anna before and be strike by her beauty , and still more by the simplicity with which she accept her position .
she blush when Vronsky show Golenishchev in , and the childlike flush that suffuse she open and handsome face please he exceedingly .
but what please he most be that at once and apparently intentionally to prevent any possibility of misapprehension in the stranger 's mind , she call Vronsky simply Alexis , and say that they be about to move into a house of their own , call a palazzo , which they have just take .
this straightforward and simple attitude toward her own position please Golenishchev .
notice Anna 's good - natured , bright , and energetic manner , he think that , know both Karenin and Vronsky as he do , he quite understand she .
he think he understand what she herself be quite unable to understand : how , though she be the cause of her husband 's unhappiness and have abandon he and her son , and lose her own good name , she could feel energetic , cheerful and happy .
' it be mention in the guide - book , ' say Golenishchev , refer to the palazzo Vronsky be take .
' there be a fine tintoretto there ... one of his later period . '
' I say , the weather be glorious : let we go and have another look at it , ' say Vronsky to Anna .
' I should like to very much .
I will just go and put on my hat . you say it be hot ' she ask , stop at the door and look inquiringly at Vronsky , while a bright flush again suffuse her face .
from her look Vronsky understand that she do not yet know what attitude he wish to adopt toward Golenishchev , and be afraid she might not have behave suitably .
he answer with a long and tender look .
' no , not very hot , ' he say .
she think she have understand he completely and above all that he be satisfied with she . she give he a smile and go out with rapid step .
the two friend look at each other , and in both face appear an embarrassed expression , as if Golenishchev – who obviously admire she – try but fail to hit on the right thing to say about she ; and as if Vronsky both fear and wish that he should succeed .
' well , and so you have settle down here ? ' say Vronsky in order to begin a conversation .
' you be still busy at the same thing ? ' he go on , recollect that he have hear the other be write something .
' yes , I be write the second part of two Principles , ' say Golenishchev , flush with pleasure at the question . ' to be quite exact , I mean , I be not yet write , but be collect the material .
the book will be much full and will deal with almost all the question .
we in Russia be slow to realize that we be the inheritor of Byzantium , ' and he begin a long and heated explanation .
at first Vronsky feel uncomfortable because he do not know even the first part of two Principles , which the author mention as if it be well know .
but later on , when Golenishchev begin expound his view , and Vronsky be able to follow he , even though he be ignorant of two Principles he listen with interest , for the man talk well .
yet Vronsky be surprise at , and sorry to see , the irritable excitement with which Golenishchev speak on the subject that interest he .
the long he talk the more his eye flash , the more hastily he retort on imaginary opponent , and the more agitated and offend become his face .
remember he as a thin , active , good - natured , and noble boy , always at the head of his class , Vronsky could not understand the cause of the agitation , nor approve of it .
what most displease he be that Golenishchev , a man belong to good Society , should put himself an the same level with certain scribbler who irritate he and make he angry .
be it worth while ?
he do not like this , but nevertheless he feel that Golenishchev be not happy and he be sorry for he .
sign of distress , of insanity almost , be apparent in his mobile and rather good - natured face when , without even observe that Anna have re - enter the room , he continue express his view with haste and warmth .
when Anna return with her hat and mantle on , and stand beside he toy with her sunshade with quick motion of her beautiful hand , Vronsky with a feeling of relief turn from Golenishchev 's eye which be fix on he plaintively . with renew love he glance at his charming companion , so full of vitality and joy .
with an effort Golenishchev recollect himself , but he be at first dejected and morose . Anna however , who at that time be amiably disposed to every one , soon revive he by her simple and cheerful behaviour .
after try several topic of conversation she lead he on to the subject of art , about which he talk very well , and listen to he with attention .
they walk to the house they have take and look over it .
' I be very pleased about one thing , ' say Anna to Golenishchev when they have return to the hotel . ' Alexis will have a nice studio .
you must certainly have that room , Alexis , ' she add , having understand that Golenishchev be to be on an intimate footing with they and that there be no need to pretend in his presence .
' do you paint ? ' inquire Golenishchev , turn quickly to Vronsky .
' yes , I go in for it long ago , and now have begin a little , ' answer Vronsky with a blush .
' he be very talented , ' say Anna with a pleased smile .
' of course I be no judge , but people who do know say so . '
during THIS , the first period of her freedom and rapid recovery , Anna be unpardonably happy and full of the joy of life .
the memory of her husband 's grief do not poison her happiness .
on the one hand this memory be too terrible to dwell upon , and on the other hand her husband 's misfortune have mean for she too great a joy for repentance to be possible .
the recollection of all that have happen to she since her illness ; her reconciliation with her husband , the rupture , the news of Vronsky 's wound , his reappearance in her husband 's house , the preparation for divorce , the parting from her home and son – all now seem a delirious dream from which she have waken abroad and alone with Vronsky .
the memory of the evil do to her husband arouse in she a feeling akin to repulsion , such as a man might feel who when in danger of drowning have shake off another who clung to he .
that other be drown ; of course it be wrong , but it have be the only way of escape and it be well not to recall such terrible detail .
one comforting reflection about her conduct have come to she in the first moment of the rupture , and when she now remember the past she also recall that reflection .
' I be the inevitable cause of unhappiness to he , ' she think , ' but I do not wish to profit by his calamity . I too be suffer and must suffer : I be lose what I most cherish – my good name and my son .
I have do wrong , and therefore do not ask for happiness and do not want a divorce . I must go on suffer from the degradation and by the separation from my son . '
but sincerely as Anna desire to suffer , she be not suffer .
she be not conscious of degradation .
with the tact they both possess , and by avoid russian lady abroad , the two never place themselves in a false position and always meet people who pretend to understand their mutual relation much well than they themselves understand they .
the parting from her son , whom she love , do not trouble she at first either .
the little girl , his child , be so sweet , and Anna have grow so attach to she since she be the only child leave to she , that she rarely think of her son .
the desire to live , enhance by her recovery , be so powerful , and the condition of her life be so novel and pleasant , that Anna feel unpardonably happy .
the well she know Vronsky the more she love he .
she love he both for his own sake and for his love of she .
to possess he entirely be a continual joy to she .
his nearness be always pleasant .
all the trait of character , with which she become well and well acquaint , seem inexpressibly delightful .
his appearance , alter by civilian dress , be as attractive to she as to a girl in love .
in all he say , think , or do , she see something peculiarly noble and exalted .
she herself be frightened at the rapture with which he inspire she ; she seek , but could not find , anything in he that be not beautiful .
she dared not let he see her consciousness of her own inferiority .
to she it seem that if he know of it he would the soon cease to love she , and there be nothing she now fear more – though she have no reason to do so – than the loss of his love .
but she could not help be grateful to he for his treatment of she , and show he how much she value it .
he , who in her opinion have such a decide vocation for statesmanship , in which he ought to have play a conspicuous part , have sacrifice his ambition for she and never show the least regret .
he be even more lovingly respectful to she than before , and the thought that she must never be allow to feel the awkwardness of her situation never leave his mind for a moment .
he , so virile a man , not only never contradict she , but where she be concern seem to have no will of his own and to be only occupy in anticipate she every wish .
she could not help appreciate this , although his strained attentiveness , the atmosphere of solicitude with which he surround she , become burdensome at time .
Vronsky meanwhile , in spite of the complete fulfilment of what he have so long desire , be not completely happy .
he soon feel that the realization of his longing give he only one grain of the mountain of bliss he have anticipate .
that realization show he the eternal error man make by imagine that happiness consist in the gratification of their wish .
when first he unite his life with hers and don civilian clothe , he feel the delight of freedom in general , such as he have not before know , and also the freedom of love – he be content then , but not for long .
soon he felt rise in his soul a desire for desire – boredom .
involuntarily he begin to snatch at every pass caprice , mistake it for a desire and a purpose .
sixteen hour daily have to be fill somehow , live abroad as they do completely at liberty , quite cut off from the round of social life that have fill his time in Petersburg .
the pleasure of a bachelor 's life , enjoy by he on his previous travel abroad , be not to be think of now , for one attempt of that kind have produce in Anna an unexpected fit of depression quite disproportionate to the offence of a late supper with some acquaintance .
intercourse with local Society or with the Russians be , in consequence of the indefiniteness of their relation , likewise impossible .
sight - seeing , apart from the fact that he have already see everything , have for he – a Russian and an intelligent man – none of that inexplicable importance the English manage to attach to it .
as a hungry animal seize every object it meet , hope to find food in it , so Vronsky unconsciously seize now on politic , now on new book , now on picture .
as in his youth he have show aptitude for art , and not know how to spend his money have begin to collect engraving , he now settle down to painting and begin to work at it , put into it the surplus stock of desire which demand satisfaction .
he have a talent for understand art and for imitate it with accuracy and good taste , and he imagine that he possess the real power an artist need . after waver for some time between various kind of art – religious , historical , genre or realistic – he begin to paint .
he understand all the different kind and be able to draw inspiration from all , but he could not imagine that it be possible to be quite ignorant of the different kind of art and to be inspire directly by what be in one 's own soul , regardless of whether what one paint belong to any particular school .
as he do not know this , and be not inspire directly by life but indirectly by life already embody in art , he find inspiration very readily and easily , and equally readily and easily produce painting very similar to the school of art he wish to imitate .
he like the graceful and effective french School of paint well , and in that style begin paint a portrait of Anna dress as an Italian , and he , as well as every one else who see it , consider the portrait a great success .
the NEGLECTED OLD PALAZZO with its high stucco ceiling , its wall fresco and mosaic floor , with heavy yellow damask hanging at the big window , vase stand on bracket and mantelshelve , carve door , and sombre hall fill with picture , – that palazzo , when they have move into it , by its very appearance keep alive in Vronsky the pleasant delusion that he be not so much a russian landowner and equerry without a post as an enlightened connoisseur and art patron , and withal a modest artist himself , who have renounce the world , his connection and ambition , for the sake of the woman he love .
the role Vronsky have choose , with their removal to the palazzo , be quite successful ; and have through Golenishchev make the acquaintance of several interesting person , he feel tranquil for a time .
he paint study from nature under the direction of an italian professor , and study italian life in the Middle Ages .
mediaeval italian life have at that time become so fascinating to he that he even begin to wear his hat and throw his cloak across his shoulder in a mediaeval manner which be very become to he .
' here we live and know nothing , ' say Vronsky one morning to Golenishchev , who have come to see he . ' have you see Mikhaylov 's picture ? ' and he pass his visitor a russian newspaper that have just arrive , and point to an article on a russian artist who be live in that town , and have just finish a picture long talk of and buy before completion .
the article reproach the Government and the Academy for leave a remarkable artist without encouragement or help .
' I have , ' answer Golenishchev . ' of course he be not without talent , but his tendency be quite a false one .
he have that Ivanov - Strauss - Renan attitude toward Christ 's and religious art . '
' what be the subject of his picture ' ask Anna .
' Christ before Pilate .
Christ be picture as a Jew with all the realism of the New School . '
lead on by this question about the subject of the picture to one of his favourite topic , he begin to explain .
' I can not understand how one can make so gross an error !
in the art of the old master Christ be give a definite embodiment : therefore , if they want to depict not God but a revolutionary or a sage , let they choose some historic character – Socrates , Franklin , Charlotte Corday – but certainly not Christ !
they choose the one person who must not be choose as a subject for art , and then ... '
' and be it true that this Mikhaylov be so poor ? ' inquire Vronsky , think that he , as a russian Maecenas , ought to help this artist regardless of whether his picture be good or bad .
' hardly .
he be a wonderful portrait - painter .
have you see his portrait of Vasilchikova ?
but it seem he do not want to paint any more portrait , so it be possible he may be in want .
I say that ... '
' could not one ask he to paint Anna Arkadyevna 's portrait ? ' say Vronsky .
' why mine ? ' say Anna . ' after the one you paint I want no other .
well have one of Annie ' ( as she call her little girl ) .
' there she be ! ' she add , look from the window at the beautiful italian nurse who have take the baby into the garden , and then immediately glance round at Vronsky .
the beautiful nurse , whose head Vronsky be paint for his picture , be the only and secret sorrow of Anna 's life .
Vronsky paint she , admire her beauty and her ' mediaevalness , ' and Anna dared not confess to herself that she be afraid of be jealous of the nurse ; so she treat the woman with special kindness and spoil she and her little son .
Vronsky too look out of the window and into Anna 's eye , and at once turn to Golenishchev say :
' do you know this Mikhaylov ? '
' I have meet he .
but he be a crank and quite uneducated .
you know , he be one of those heathenish new folk one so often meet nowadays ; you know ! one of those freethinker who have be bring up from the beginning in disbelief , negation , and materialism .
formerly , ' Golenishchev go on , either not notice or not wish to notice that both Anna and Vronsky want to speak , ' formerly a freethinker be a man bring up with idea of religion , law , and morality , who himself , through struggle and pain , have attain freedom of thought ; hut now a new type of bear freethinker have appear . these grow up without so much as hear that there use to be law of morality and religion , and that there be once authority in these thing ; they grow up simply with the idea of negation – that is , as heathen .
he be one of these .
he be the son of a head footman , I think , and have have no education .
when he enter the Academy and win a reputation for himself he , not be stupid , want to get same education .
so he resort to what seem to he to be the wellspring of education – the magazine .
you see , formerly a man who wish to get an education – a frenchman , let we say – would have commence study all the classic , theologian , dramatist , historian , and philosopher , and with what mental labour he would have be confront !
but among we at the present day he tumble straight into the literature of negation and rapidly assimilate the essence of the negative teaching , and there he be !
and that be not all . twenty year ago he would have find in that kind of literature sign of the struggle with authority and of an outlook century old , and from that struggle would have deduce that something else have exist ; but as it be , he stumble on a kind of literature that do not even deign to dispute the old point of view , say straight off , " there be nothing but evolution , selection , the struggle for existence , and nothing more " !
in my article I ... '
' do you know what we will do ? ' cry Anna , who for some time have be furtively exchange look with Vronsky and know that the latter be not at all interested in the education of the artist but be only concerned to help he by give he a commission for a portrait . ' do you know what we will do ? ' she resolutely interrupt Golenishchev , who be in the full flow of his speech . ' let we go and see he . '
Golenishchev pull himself up and unwillingly agree , but as the artist live in a distant part of the town they decide to hire a carriage .
an hour later Anna , seat beside Golenishchev with Vronsky face they , drive to a new ugly house in a distant quarter of the town .
having learn from the house - porter 's wife who come out to meet they that Mikhaylov allow visitor into his studio , but be at that moment at his lodging a few step away , they send she with their card to beg permission to see his picture .
MIKHAYLOV , the artist , be at work as usual when Vronsky 's and Golenishchev 's card be bring he .
every morning he work in the studio at his big picture .
on return home he have be angry with his wife because she have not manage to pacify the landlady , who clamour for the rent .
' have I not tell you score of time not to enter upon discussion ?
at good you be only a fool , and when you begin argue in Italian you become a treble fool ! ' he say at the end of a long dispute .
' then you should not get into arrear !
it be not my fault ! if I have any money ... '
' shut up , for heaven 's sake ! ' cry Mikhaylov with tear in his voice , stop his ear with his hand as he go into his workroom behind a partition and lock the door behind he .
' what a duffer ! ' he mutter to himself as he seat himself at the table , and having open a portfolio he at once set to work with particular ardour at an unfinished drawing .
he never work with such ardour or so successfully as when thing be go badly with he , and especially after a quarrel with his wife .
' oh dear ! if only I could escape somewhere ! ' he think as he work .
he be sketch the figure of a man in a fit of anger .
he have sketch he before , but have be dissatisfy with the result .
' no , the other one be well ...
where be it ? '
he go back to his wife , and frown , without look at she , ask his eld little girl where the paper be that he have give they .
the paper with the drawing that he have throw away be find , but it be dirty now and spot with candle grease .
nevertheless , he take it , put it on his table , and , step backward and screw up his eye , begin examine it .
suddenly he smile and fling up his arm joyfully .
' that be it ! that be it ! ' he say , and take up his pencil he begin draw rapidly .
a grease spot have give the figure a new pose .
he copy that new pose , and , suddenly remember the energetic pose and prominent chin of a shopman from whom he have buy cigar , he give the figure that man 's face and chin .
he laugh with joy , for the inanimate , unnatural figure have become alive , and be just the thing .
the figure be alive , clear , and well - define .
it be possible to correct the drawing to accord with the requirement of the pose ; it be possible and even necessary to place the foot far apart , to alter the position of the left arm , and to throw back the hair .
but while make these correction he do not alter the pose but only remove what interfere with its character .
he remove , if one may say so , the covering which partially obscure the figure , every fresh stroke make its energy and power more apparent and more as it have be suddenly reveal to he by the effect of the grease spot .
he be carefully finish the drawing when the card be bring to he .
' directly ! directly ! '
he go out to his wife .
' come , Sasha , do not he angry , ' he say , smile timidly and tenderly . ' you be wrong and so be i. I will settle it all ! '
having make it up with his wife he put on an olive - green overcoat with a velvet collar , and a hat , and go to the studio .
his successful drawing be already forget .
now he be pleased and excite by the visit to his studio of these grand Russians who have come in a carriage .
about his picture – the one at present on the easel – he have at the bottom of his heart a firm opinion : that no one have ever paint anything like it .
he do not consider his picture well than all Raphael 's , but he know that what he want to express in that picture have never yet be express by anyone .
of that he be firmly convinced , and have long be so – ever since he have begin paint it ; yet the opinion of other , whoever they might be , seem to he of great importance , and disturb he to the depth of his soul .
every remark , even the most trivial , which show that those who judge it see even but a small part of what he himself see in it , move he deeply .
he always attribute to those judge a well understanding than his own , and always expect to hear from they something he have himself not notice in his work , often fancy that in their criticism he have really find that something .
with rapid step he approach the door of his studio , and in spite of his excitement be strike by the soft light on Anna 's figure as she stand in the shadow of the porch listen to something Golenishchev be vehemently say , and at the same time evidently wish to look at the approach artist .
he be himself unconscious that as he approach they he seize and absorb this impression , just as he have retain the tobacconist 's chin and hide it away where he could find it when it be want .
the visitor , already disenchant by Golenishchev 's account of the artist , be still far disillusioned by his appearance .
of medium height , thick - set and with a loose gait , Mikhaylov in his brown hat , olive - green overcoat and narrow trouser ( at a time when wide one have long since come into fashion ) , and especially his commonplace broad face , express a combination of timidity and a desire to be dignified , create an unpleasant impression .
' come in , please ! ' he say , try to put on an air of indifference , as he enter the hall and take a key from his pocket to unlock the door .
ON enter his studio the artist again cast a glance at his visitor and take note of Vronsky 's face , especially his jaw .
although his artistic perception never sleep , and although he be grow more and more excited as the moment approach when his picture be to be criticize , he quickly and shrewdly , from imperceptible datum , form his opinion of these three person .
of Golenishchev he think , ' that one be a Russian who live here . '
Mikhaylov do not remember his name or where he have see he or what they have talk about ; he remember only his face , as he remember every face he have ever see ; but he also remember that it be one of the face he have mentally put aside with the enormous class of falsely important face , face lack expression .
a mass of hair and a very open forehead give a superficial significance to that face , which have an insignificant childish , restless expression concentrate in the narrow bridge of the nose .
Vronsky and Anna , accord to Mikhaylov 's conception , be in all probability distinguish wealthy Russians , who like all these wealthy Russians comprehend nothing of art but pretend to be amateur and critic .
' probably they 've see all the antiquity , and be now go the round of the modern painter , the german quack and the stupid english pre - raphaelite , and to complete the series have come to see I too , ' he think .
well , he know the dilettante ' way of examine the studio of modern artist ( the cleverer they be the bad they be ) with the one purpose of be able to say afterwards that art have deteriorate and that the more modern art one see the more evident it become that the old master be inimitable .
he expect all this , see it in their face , in the careless indifference with which they talk among themselves , look at the lay figure and bust and unconcernedly walk about while wait for he to uncover his picture .
but in spite of all this , as he turn over his study , pull up the blind , and withdraw the sheet from his picture , he feel very excited – all the more so because , though he regard distinguished and wealthy Russians as mostly beast and fool , Vronsky and especially Anna please he .
' there ! ' he say , step aside with his loose gait , and point to the picture .
' this be Pilate 's Admonition – Matthew , chapter xxvii . , ' he go on , conscious that his lip be begin to tremble with excitement ; and he step behind the visitor .
during the few moment that they be silently gaze at it , Mikhaylov also regard it with the indifferent eye of a stranger .
in those few moment he believe in advance that the high and just of criticism be go to be pronounce by these very visitor whom he have so despise a moment before .
he forget all that he have think of his picture during the three year that he have work at it , forget all its merit , which he have not doubt , and see it from the fresh point of view of an indifferent stranger , and he see nothing good in it .
he see in the foreground Pilate 's vex face and Christ 's calm one , and behind they the face of Pilate 's servant and of John , watch what be take place .
each of those face that with so much searching , so many fault and correction , he have evolve with its own character , each represent so much pain and pleasure , and all of they so often place and replace to obtain harmony ; all the shade of colour and tone elaborate with such effort all this , regard as a whole from those other ' point of view , now seem triviality a thousand time repeat .
the face that be most dear to he , that of Christ , the centre of the picture , which have so enrapture he when he first discover it , now , regard from the other ' standpoint , seem quite worthless .
he see a well - paint – and not even that , for he detect a multitude of error – repetition of those innumerable christ : Titian 's , Raphael 's , Rubens 's , with the same warrior and the same Pilates .
it be trivial , poor , old , and even badly paint , weak and lack harmony .
they would be in the right when they begin to say falsely - polite thing in the presence of the artist , and to pity and laugh at he behind his back .
the silence grow too unbearable , though it have not last more than a minute .
to break it and to appear calm , he make an effort and address Golenishchev .
' I think I have have the pleasure of meet you ? ' he say , glance uneasily now at Anna and now at Vronsky , in order not to lose any detail of their expression .
' of course ! we first meet at Rossi 's . do not you remember that evening when the italian lady recite – the new Rachel ? ' begin Golenishchev glibly , turn away from the picture to the artist without the slight regret .
noticing , however , that Mikhaylov be wait to hear his criticism of the picture , he say :
' your picture have progress very much since I last see it , and now , as then , I be specially strike by the figure of Pilate .
one can so well understand that man , a kind , first - rate fellow , but an official to his very backbone , who do not know what he be do .
but it seem to I ... '
the whole of Mikhaylov 's mobile face suddenly light up .
his eye brighten . he want to speak but be too agitated , and pretend to cough instead .
little as he value Golenishchev 's capacity to understand art , unimportant as be his remark about the truth of Pilate 's official expression while what be important remain unmentione , and offensive as this trivial ( it might have seem to he ) remark before anything have be say about what be most important Mikhaylov be delighted with it .
his opinion of that figure be the same .
the fact that this opinion be but one of a million of other opinion which – as Mikhaylov well know – would all have be just do not for he detract from the importance of Golenishchev 's remark .
he take a liking for Golenishchev because of that remark , and his depression change suddenly into delight .
in an instant his whole picture become alive before his eye , with the inexpressible complexity of everything that live .
he wish to say that it be just so that he understand Pilate , but his tremble lip would not obey he and he be unable to speak .
Vronsky and Anna be talk in the hush voice in which – partly not to offend the artist , and partly not to utter aloud a stupid remark such as be so easily make when speak about art – people generally talk at picture exhibition .
Mikhaylov think that on they too the picture have create an impression , and go up to they .
' how wonderful Christ 's expression be ! ' say Anna .
that expression please her more than all else she see and she feel that it be the centre of the picture , and that therefore praise of it would be agreeable to the artist . ' one see he be sorry for Pilate . '
this too be one of a million just remark which might have be make with reference to his picture and the figure of Christ .
she say he be sorry for Pilate .
in Christ 's expression there should be pity because there be love in it , a peace not of this world , a readiness for death , and a knowledge of the vanity of word .
of course there be an official expression in Pilate 's face and pity in Christ 's , for the former be the embodiment of carnal and the latter of spiritual life .
all this and much more float through Mikhaylov 's mind ; and again his face shine with ecstasy .
' yes , and how well that figure be do , and what an atmosphere there be !
one could walk round it , ' say Golenishchev , show evidently by this remark that he do not approve of the content and idea of the figure .
' yes , it be wonderfully masterly ! how those figure in the background stand out !
that be technique , ' say Vronsky , address Golenishchev and allude to a conversation they have have about Vronsky 's despair of attain technical mastery .
' yes , yes , wonderful ! ' chime in Golenishchev and Anna .
in spite of his elation , this remark about technique grate painfully on Mikhaylov 's heart , and , glance angrily at Vronsky , he suddenly frown .
he often hear the word technique mention , and do not at all understand what be mean by it .
he know it mean a mechanical capacity to paint and draw , quite independent of the subject - matter .
he have often notice – as now when his picture be be praise – that technique be contrast with inner quality , as if it be possible to paint well something that be bad .
he know that much attention and care be need not to injure one 's work when remove the wrapping that obscure the idea , and that all wrapping must be remove , but as to the art of painting , the technique , it do not exist .
if the thing he see have be reveal to a little child , or to his cook , they would have be able to remove the outer shell from their idea .
and the most experienced and technical painter could never paint anything by mean of mechanical skill alone , if the outline of the subject - matter do not first reveal itself to his mind .
moreover , he see that if technique be speak of , then he could not be praise for it .
in all he paint and ever have paint he see defect that be an eyesore to he , the result of carelessness in remove the shell of the idea , which he could not now remedy without spoil the work as a whole .
and in almost all the figure and face he see trace of wrapping that have not be entirely remove and that spoil the picture .
' one thing might be say , if you will allow I to make the remark , ' begin Golenishchev .
' oh , I shall be very pleased : pray do ! ' say Mikhaylov with a feign smile .
' it be , that you have make he a man - God , and not a God - man .
however , I know that you wish to do so . '
' I could not paint a Christ whom I have not in my soul , ' Mikhaylov rejoin gloomily .
' yes , but in that case , if I may say what I think ...
your picture be so good that a remark of mine can not do it any harm , besides which it be only my personal opinion … yours be different , the idea itself be different .
but let we take Ivanov , for example .
I consider that if Christ be to be bring down to the level of an historic figure , it would be well to choose another historic theme , a fresh one as yet untouched . '
' but if this be the high theme open to art ? '
' other theme can be find if one look for they .
but the fact be , art will not stand discussion and argument .
yet Ivanov 's picture suggest both to a believer and an unbeliever the question : be this a God or not a God ? and the unity of impression be destroy . '
' why so ?
to I it seem that for educate people such question can no long exist , ' say Mikhaylov .
Golenishchev do not agree with this , and keep to his first contention that unity of impression be indispensable in art , he confute Mikhaylov .
the artist be perturb , but could find nothing to say in defence of his opinion .
ANNA and VRONSKY have long be exchange glance regret their friend 's clever loquacity , and at last Vronsky without wait for his host cross the room to look at another and small picture .
' oh , how charming ! how charming !
wonderful !
Charming ! ' he and Anna begin both at once .
' what be it they like so much ? ' wonder Mikhaylov he have forget all about that picture , paint three year before .
he have forget all the suffering and rapture he have go through on account of that work , when it alone have occupy he unremittingly day and night for three month . he have forget it , as he forget all his finished picture .
he do not even like look at it , and have only bring it out because he be expect an Englishman who wish to buy it .
' that be nothing – only an old study , ' he say .
' how good ! ' remark Golenishchev , evidently sincerely impress by the charm of the picture .
it represent two boy angle in the shade of a willow .
the elder have just throw the line and , quite absorb in his occupation , be carefully draw the float from behind a bush ; the young one lie in the grass , lean on his elbow with his fair tousle head in his hand , and with dreamy blue eye gaze at the water .
what be he think about ?
their delight in his picture arouse in Mikhaylov his former excitement , but he fear and dislike their idle interest in his past work , and therefore , though their praise give he pleasure , he try to draw his visitor ' attention to a third picture .
but Vronsky inquire whether this picture be for sale .
to Mikhaylov , in his excitement over their visit , this mention of money matter be very disagreeable .
' it be put out for sale , ' he reply , frown darkly .
when the visitor have leave , Mikhaylov sit down before his picture of Pilate and Christ and mentally review all that have be say , and even what be not say but only hint by the visitor .
strange to say , what have have weight with he while they be there and he look at thing from their point of view suddenly lose all significance now .
he look at his picture with his artistic perception fully alert , and reach that assurance of the perfection , and consequent importance , of his picture which he need to attain the intensity of effort – exclude all other interest – without which he could not work .
the foreshortening of Christ 's foot be , however , not right .
he take his palette and commence work .
while correct the foot he keep glance at the figure of John in the background , which the visitor have not even remark , but which he know to be the height of perfection .
when he have complete the foot he be about to do something to that figure , but feel that he be too agitated .
he could work neither when he be too indifferent nor when he be too highly rouse and see everything too distinctly .
there be only one stage between calmness and inspiration , at which work be possible , and to - day he be too excited .
he be about to cover his picture , but pause , and hold up the sheet stand a long time with a rapturous smile gaze at the figure of John .
at length , tear himself away from it regretfully , he let the sheet fall over the picture and go home , tired but happy .
Vronsky , Anna , and Golenishchev be particularly animate and high - spirited on their way back .
they talk about Mikhaylov and his picture .
the word talent , which they understand to mean an innate and almost physical capacity , independent of mind and heart , and which be their term for everything an artist live through , occur very often in their conversation , since they require it as a name for something which they do not at all understand , but about which they want to talk .
they say that it be impossible to deny his talent , but that his talent could not develop because of his lack of education – the common misfortune of our russian artist .
but the picture of the boy have grip their memory and they keep come back to it . ' how charming !
how well he have hit it off , and how simply !
he do not even understand how good it be .
yes , we must not miss the opportunity of purchase it , ' Vronsky declare .
chapter XIII
MIKHAYLOV SOLD vronsky the picture and consent to paint Anna 's portrait .
on the appoint day he come and begin work .
after the fifth sit the portrait strike every one not only by its likeness but also by its beauty .
it be strange that Mikhaylov have be able to discover that special beauty .
' one need to know and love she as I love she , to find just that sweet spiritual expression of hers , ' think Vronsky , though he himself have only learn to know that ' sweetest spiritual expression ' through the portrait .
but the expression be so true that it seem both to he and to other that they have always know it .
' how long have I be struggle without accomplish anything ? ' he say , refer to the portrait he be paint ; ' and he just look , and paint this !
that be where technique come in . '
' that will come in good time , ' say Golenishchev , consolingly . in his opinion Vronsky have talent , and especially the education that give a lofty outlook on art .
Golenishchev 's conviction that Vronsky possess talent be support by the fact that he require Vronsky 's sympathy and praise for his article and idea , and feel that praise and encouragement should be mutual .
in another man 's house , and particularly in Vronsky 's palazzo , Mikhaylov be quite a different man from what he be in his studio .
he be unpleasantly deferential , as if fearful of intimacy with person whom he do not respect .
he address Vronsky as ' your excellency , ' and never stay to dinner , though Anna and Vronsky both invite he , and he never come except for a sitting .
Anna be even kind to he than to other , and be grateful for her portrait .
Vronsky be more than polite to he , and be evidently interested in the artist 's opinion of his ( Vronsky 's ) picture .
Golenishchev never miss an opportunity to instil into Mikhaylov a true understanding of art .
but the latter remain equally cold toward they all .
Anna feel by his look that he like look at she , but he avoid conversation with she .
when Vronsky talk about his art Mikhaylov remain stubbornly silent , and as stubbornly silent when they show he Vronsky 's picture , and he be evidently oppress by Golenishchev 's discourse , to which he make no rejoinder .
altogether , his reserved , disagreeable , and apparently hostile attitude when they come to know he well much displease they , and they be glad when the sitting be over , the beautiful portrait be theirs , and his visit cease .
Golenishchev be the first to express the thought that be in all their mind , namely , that Mikhaylov be simply jealous of Vronsky .
' we will not say " jealous " because he have talent , but he be vex that a man of the Court , a rich man , and a Count into the bargain ( man like he hate all that ) , should , without any particular difficulty , do as well or even well than he , who have devote his whole life to the work .
especially , there be the education which he lack . '
Vronsky take Mikhaylov 's part , but in the depth of his heart he believe what Golenishchev say , for he consider that a man of that other and low world must envy he .
Anna 's portrait , the same subject paint from nature by both of they , should have show he the difference between Mikhaylov and himself ; but Vronsky do not see it .
he merely leave off paint Anna , decide that it would be superfluous now .
he go on , however , with his mediaeval picture .
and he , as well as Golenishchev , and especially Anna , think it very good because it resemble famous picture much more than Mikhaylov 's do .
meanwhile Mikhaylov , though Anna 's portrait have much engross he , be even well pleased than they when the sitting be over and he be no long oblige to listen to Golenishchev 's disquisition on art and be able to forget Vronsky 's painting .
he know it be not possible to forbid Vronsky to trifle with art , know that he and all the dilettanti have a perfect right to paint what they like – but to he it be unpleasant .
one can not forbid a man 's make a big wax doll and kiss it .
but if the man come and sit down with his doll in front of a lover , and begin to caress it as the lover caress his beloved , it would displease the lover .
it be this kind of unpleasantness that Mikhaylov experience when he see Vronsky 's picture : he be amuse , vex , sorry , and hurt .
Vronsky 's interest in art and the Middle Ages do not last long .
he have sufficient taste for art to be unable to finish his picture .
he cease paint it because he be dimly conscious that its defect , little noticeable at first , would become strike if he go on .
the same thing happen to he as to Golenishchev , who , feel that he have nothing to express , continually deceive himself by say that his thought have not yet ripen and that he be bring it to maturity and prepare material .
but Golenishchev be embitter and torment by it , while Vronsky could not deceive and torment himself , and above all could not become embittered .
with characteristic firmness he leave off painting , without any explanation or excuse .
but without that occupation his life and Anna 's – who be surprised at his disenchantment – appear very dull in the italian town . all of a sudden the palazzo become so obviously old and dirty , so disagreeably familiar be the stain on the curtain , the crack in the floor , the cracked stucco of the cornice , and so wearisome become Golenishchev , the italian professor , and the german traveller , who be also always the same , that a change be necessary .
so they decide to return to Russia and live in the country .
in Petersburg Vronsky plan to separate his property from his brother 's , and Anna to see her son .
the summer they intend to spend on Vronsky 's large family estate .
chapter XIV
LEVIN have be marry three month .
he be happy , but in quite a different way from what he have expect .
at every step he meet disillusionments in his old fancy and new and unexpected enchantment .
he be happy , but having embark on family life he see at every step that it be not at all what he have anticipate .
at every step he take he feel as a man would feel who , after admire the smooth happy motion of a little boat upon the water , have himself get into the boat .
he find that besides sit quietly without rock he have to keep a lookout , not for a moment forget where he be go , or that there be water under his foot , and that he have to row , although it hurt his unaccustomed hand ; in short , that it only look easy , but to do it , though very delightful , be very difficult .
as a bachelor see the married life of other – their petty care , their dispute , their jealousy – he use mentally to smile contemptuously .
in his future married life he be sure he would have nothing of this kind , and even the external form of his married life would be quite unlike other people 's .
and now , behold ! his life with his wife have not shape itself differently , but be all make up of those petty trifle which he have formerly so despise , but which now , against his will , assume an unusual and incontestable importance .
Levin see that the arrangement of all those trifle be not at all so easy as he have formerly suppose .
though he have imagine his idea about family life to be most exact , he , like all man , have involuntarily picture it to himself as merely the enjoyment of love – which nothing should be allow to hinder and from which one should not be distract by petty care .
he should , he think , do his work , and rest from it in the joy of love .
she should be love – and that be all .
but like all man , he forget that she too must work ; and be surprised how she , the poetic , charming Kitty , could , during the very first week and even in the first day of married life , think , remember , and fuss about tablecloth ; furniture , spare - room mattress , a tray , the cook , the dinner , and so forth .
during their engagement he have be strike by the definiteness with which she decline a trip abroad and decide to go to the country , as if she know of something that be necessary , and could think of something besides their love .
he have be pain by it then , and now be repeatedly pain by her petty care .
but he see that this be necessary to she , and , love she , though he could not understand what it be all about , and laugh at her worry , he could not help admire they .
he laugh at the way she place the furniture that have be bring from Moscow , and rearrange his and her own room , hang up curtain , decide about room for future visitor and for Dolly , arrange the room for her new maid , give order about dinner to the old cook , and enter into discussion with Agatha Mikhaylovna , take the commissariat into her own hand .
he see the old cook smile admiringly and listen to her inexperienced and impossible order ; see that Agatha Mikhaylovna shake her head thoughtfully and kindly at her young mistress 's arrangement in the storeroom ; see that Kitty be peculiarly charming when she come , half laugh and half crying , to report that her maid , Masha , be use to consider she merely as a young lady in her mother 's house , and that therefore no one would obey she .
it strike he as very charming , but strange , and he think it would have be well without all that .
he do not realize the feeling of change that she be experience after her life at home . there she have sometimes wish for cabbage with kvas , or sweet , and could not have they ; but now she might order whatever she please , and could if she like buy heap of sweet , spend any amount of money , and order all the pudding she please .
she look forward joyfully to Dolly 's come with the child , especially because she mean to give each of they their favourite pudding , and because Dolly would appreciate her new arrangement .
without herself know why or wherefore , the management of the house attract she irresistibly .
instinctively feel the approach of spring , and know that there would be wet weather , she build her nest as she could , hasten to build it while yet learn how to do it .
Kitty 's absorption in these trifle , quite contrary to Levin 's early ideal of lofty happiness , be one of his disappointment ; yet that sweet absorption , the meaning of which he could not understand but which he could not help like , be also one of his new enchantment .
another disenchantment and new enchantment be afford by their quarrel .
Levin have never think it possible that between he and his wife there could ever be any but tender , respectful , and love relation , and yet from the very beginning they have quarrel : she have say he do not love she , but only love himself , and begin to cry and wave her arm .
this first quarrel arise because Levin have ride over to see his new farm and return half an hour late , having attempt a short cut home and lose his way .
he ride home think only of she , of her love and of his happiness , and the near he come the warm grow his tenderness for she .
he run into the room with the same feeling as , and even strong one than , those with which he have go to the Shcherbatskys ' house to propose and to his astonishment be meet with such a dismal look as he have never see on her face before .
he try to kiss she but she push he away .
' what be the matter ? '
' you seem merry ... ' she begin , wish to say something calmly sting .
but directly she open her mouth , word of reproach , senseless jealousy , and everything else that have be torture she during the half - hour she have sit motionless wait at the window , burst from she .
then it be that he first clearly understand what he do not realize when lead she out of church after the wedding : that she be not only very close to he but that he could not now tell where she end and he begin .
he understand this by a torment sensation of cleavage which he experience at that moment .
far an instant he be offend , but immediately know he could not be offend with she because she be himself .
for a moment he feel like a man who , receive a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turn round to find his assailant and realize that he have accidentally knock himself , that there be no one to be angry with and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
never again do he feel this so strongly as this first time , and for a long time he could not recover his balance .
his natural feeling prompt he to justify himself and prove that she be in the wrong ; but to prove she in the wrong would mean irritate she still more , and widen the breach which be the cause of all the trouble .
one impulse , an habitual one , draw he to shift the blame from himself and lie it upon she ; but another , and more powerful one , draw he to smooth over the breach as quickly as possible and not allow it to widen .
to remain under so unjust an accusation be painful , but to justify himself and hurt she would be still bad .
like a man half - asleep and oppress with pain , he want to tear off the ache part and cast it from he , but find on wake that the ache part be – himself .
all he could do be to try to soothe the ache and endure it , and this he do .
they make it up .
having realize that she be in the wrong , though she do not acknowledge it , she become more tender to he , and they enjoy a new and double happiness in their love .
but this do not prevent such collision recur quite frequently , and on very unexpected and trivial provocation .
these collision be often cause by each not realize what be important to the other , and also by the fact that in those early day they be often in low spirit .
when one of they be in good spirit and the other be not , peace be not break ; but if both chance to be out of sort , collision result from cause so trifling as to be incomprehensible . often afterwards they could not remember what they have quarrel about .
however , when both be in good spirit their happiness be double – and yet the early day of their married life be very trying .
all that time they be conscious of peculiar strain , as if the chain that bind they be be pull first one way and then the other .
altogether , the honeymoon – the first month of their marriage , from which Levin have expect so much – be not delightful , but remain in both their recollection as the most oppressive and humiliating time of their life .
they both try in after life to efface from their memory all the ugly shameful circumstance of this unhealthy time during which they be rarely in a normal state and rarely themselves .
only in the third month of their married life , after return from Moscow where they have spend a month , do their life begin to run more smoothly .
chapter XV
they have just RETURNED from MOSCOW arid be glad of the solitude .
he be in his study and sit at the table writing .
she , in the dark lilac dress she have wear during the first day of her marriage and which be specially memorable and dear to he , sit with her embroidery on that same old leather - cover sofa which have stand in the study through his father 's and grandfather 's time .
as he sat think and write he be all the while blissfully conscious of her presence .
he have not abandon his work on the estate , or on the book in which the foundation of a new farming system be to be explain ; but as those thought and that work formerly appear to he trivial and insignificant in comparison with the gloom that overshadow all existence , so now they appear trivial and insignificant in comparison with his future prospect all bathe in the bright sunshine of happiness .
he go on with his work with a feeling that the centre of gravity of his attention have shift , and that he consequently see the matter differently and with great clearness .
formerly this work have be his salvation from life .
he use to feel that without it life would be too dismal , and now he need it in order that his life should not be too monotonously bright .
having set to work again on his manuscript and read over what he have write , he be glad to find , that the work seem worth do .
many of his former thought now appear superfluous and extreme , but many omission become clear to he when he go over the matter afresh .
he be write a fresh chapter on why agriculture be not profitable in Russia .
he argue that Russia 's poverty be cause not only by a wrong distribution of land property and a false policy , but that of late year those evil have be foster by a foreign civilization artificially graft upon Russia , especially as to way of communication – viz . , the railway , which have conduce to a centralization in the city , a growth of luxury , and consequently to a development of factory at the expense of agriculture , and , attendant upon this , to credit operation and speculation .
it seem to he that when the growth of a nation 's wealth be normal these thing follow only after a considerable amount of labour have be devote to agriculture , and after the latter have be place in its rightful – or at any rate in a definite – position : that a nation 's wealth ought to grow proportionately at the same rate in all its branch , and especially in such a way that the other branch should not out - distance agriculture ; that mean of communication should conform to the agricultural condition , and that with our wrong method of use the land , the railway – bring about not by economic but by political necessity – have come prematurely , and instead of promote agriculture as have be expect , have interfere with it and hinder it by stimulate the development of manufacture and credit . therefore , as the one - sided and premature development of a single organ in an animal would injure its general development , so credit , railway , and the force growth of manufacture , though undoubtedly necessary in Europe , where the time be ripe for they – have in Russia only harm the general development of wealth by thrust aside the most important current question , namely , the organization of agriculture .
while he be write his thought , she be think about his unnatural attention to young Prince Charsky , who have be very tactlessly pay court to she on the day before their departure from Moscow .
' why , he be jealous ! ' she think . ' oh dear !
how sweet and silly he be , jealous of I !
if he only know that all the rest of they be no more than Peter the cook to I ! ' and she glance with a feeling of proprietorship strange to herself , at the nape of his red neck . ' though it be a pity to interrupt he at his work ( but he will have time enough ) I must see his face .
will he feel that I be look at he ! I want he to turn ...
I want it ! well ! ' and she open her eye wider , try thereby to increase the force of her look .
' yes , they divert all the sap , they produce a false glamour , ' he mutter , pause , and feel that she be look at he he turn round smile .
' well ? ' he ask with a smile , and rise .
' he have turn ! ' she think .
' nothing , I only want to make you turn round , ' say she , gaze at he and try to discover whether he be vex at the interruption .
' I say , how delightful it be for we to be alone together !
for I , I mean ... ' he say , come toward she with a beam smile of happiness .
' it be delightful for I two !
I sha not go anywhere , especially not to Moscow . '
' and what be you think about ? '
' I ? ...
I be think ... no , no !
go and write , do not let I distract you , ' she say , pucker her lip . ' and I must cut out these little hole , you see ! '
take up her scissor she begin cut .
' come , tell I what it be , ' he say , sit down beside she and watch the circular movement of her tiny scissor .
' oh , what be I think about ?
about Moscow , and about the nape of your neck . '
' why should such happiness come just to I ?
it be not natural .
it be too beautiful ! ' he say , kiss her hand .
' to I the more beautiful it be the more natural it seem . '
' your hair come to a point behind , ' he say , carefully turn her head round . ' a point ?
yes , you see ! there !
but enough ! we be engage on serious matter ! '
but their serious matter do not get on , and they jump apart guiltily when Kuzma come to say that tea be serve .
' and have they return from town ? ' Levin inquire of Kuzma .
' they 've just come and be unpack . '
' be quick and come , ' she say as she leave the study , ' or else I shall read all the letter without you .
and after that let us have a duet . '
leave alone , having put away his paper in the new portfolio she have buy , he wash his hand at the new washstand with the new and elegant utensil that have also appear through her agency . he smile at his thought and shake his head disapprovingly at it .
a feeling resemble repentance torment he . there be something contemptible , effeminate , Capuan , as he call it , in his present life .
' it be not right to live so , ' he think . ' soon it will be three month since I do anything worth mention .
this be almost the first day that I have really set to work seriously and what have come of it ?
scarcely have I begin when I stop .
even my usual duty – all almost abandon !
the farm work – why , I hardly even go and see about that !
sometimes I be sorry to part from she , sometimes I can see she be dull .
and I use to think that up to the time of my marriage life would go on just so - so , anyhow , and not count for much ; but that after marriage real life be go to begin .
and now that be nearly three month ago , and I have never spend my day more idly or uselessly !
no , this can not go on .
I must make a beginning .
of course it be not her fault ; there be nothing to reproach she with .
I ought to have be firm and uphold my independence as a man .
this way I shall get into bad habit and teach they to she too ...
of course it be not her fault , ' he say to himself .
but it be difficult for a dissatisfied man not to reproach some one else , namely , the person most closely connect with the subject of his dissatisfaction .
and Levin dimly feel that though she be not herself in fault – she never could be in fault – it be the fault of she bring up , which be too superficial and frivolous . ' that fool Charsky !
I know she want to stop he but do not know how , ' he think . ' yes , except for the interest she take in the housekeeping , – that interest she certainly have , – her clothe , and her embroidery , she have no real interest .
she take no interest in our work , in the farm , in the peasant , or in music , though she be quite good at that , or in book .
she do nothing and be quite content . '
in his heart he blame she , but he do not understand that she be prepare herself for a period of activity which be inevitably come , when at one and the same time she would be her husband 's wife , the mistress of the house , and a bearer , nurturer , and educator of her child .
he do not understand that , but she know it instinctively ; and while get ready for her gigantic task she do not reproach herself for the moment of careless and happy love that she now enjoy while build her nest for the future .
chapter XVI
when LEVIN CAME UPSTAIRS his wife be sit beside the new silver samovar with a new tea - service before she , read a letter from Dolly , with whom she keep up a regular and active correspondence . she have make old Agatha Mikhaylovna sit at a little table with a cup of tea she have pour out for she .
' you see , your lady have make I sit with she , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna , glance with a friendly smile at Kitty .
in these word of Agatha Mikhaylovna 's Levin read the conclusion of the drama which have lately be enact between Agatha Mikhaylovna and Kitty .
he perceive that despite Agatha Mikhaylovna 's grief at the advent of the new mistress who have take the rein of management into her own hand , Kitty have conquer and have make the old woman love she .
I 've read your letter , ' say Kitty , hand he a badly - write letter . ' it be from that woman , I think – your brother 's ...
no , I have not read it ... these be from home , and from Dolly .
fancy !
Dolly take Grisha and Tanya to a child 's party at the Sarmatskys ' ! Tanya go as a marquise . '
but Levin do not listen . he blush as he take Mary Nikolavna 's letter .
this be the second letter he have receive from the woman who have be his brother 's mistress .
in the first she write that his brother have send she away for no fault of her , add with touching naiveté that , though she be again in want she do not ask or desire anything , but write because she be crush by the thought that Nicholas Dmitrich would perish without she , his health be so bad .
she beg Levin to keep watch over his brother .
this time she write differently : she have find Nicholas Dmitrich , have join he in Moscow , and have go with he to a provincial town where he have obtain a post in the Civil Service .
but he have quarrel with his chief , and they have start again for Moscow , when he fall so ill on the way that it be hardly likely he would ever get up again . she write : ' he keep on thinking of you ; besides , there be no money leave . '
' read it ... dolly write about you , ' Kitty begin with a smile , but pause suddenly , notice the change expression on her husband 's face .
' what be the matter ?
what be it ? '
' she write that my brother Nicholas be on his deathbed .
I be go . '
Kitty 's look change at once .
thought of Tanya as a marquise and of Dolly have quite vanish .
' when be you go ? ' she ask .
' to - morrow . '
' I shall go too , may I ? '
' Kitty !
what do you mean ? ' he say reproachfully .
' what , indeed ? ' she reply , offend that he seem opposed to and vex at her offer . ' why should I not go ?
I sha not be in your way . I ... '
' I be go because my brother be die , ' say Levin , ' but why should you ... ? '
' why ?
for the same reason as you . '
' at such an important time , she think only of how dull it will be for she alone here , ' he think ; and this motive in connection with something so important vex he .
' it be impossible , ' he reply sternly .
Agatha Mikhaylovna , see that a quarrel be imminent , softly put down her cup and go out .
Kitty do not even notice she .
the tone in which her husband have say these word hurt she , especially as he evidently disbelieve what she have say .
' and I say that if you go I shall go with you . I will certainly go ! ' she say hastily and angrily .
' why be it impossible ? why do you say it be impossible ? '
' because it mean go goodness know where , and by what road ! to what inn !
you would be in my way , ' say Levin , endeavour to keep cool .
' not at all !
I sha not want anything , and where you can go I can . '
' well , if only because that woman be there , with whom you can not associate ... '
' I do not know and do not want to know anything about who and what be there .
I know that my husband 's brother be die , that my husband be go to he , and that I be go with my husband in order ... '
' Kitty , do not be angry !
but just think , this matter be so important – it hurt I to think that you be mix up with it your weakness , your dislike of remain alone .
well , if you feel dull alone – well , go to Moscow ! '
' there , you see ! you always attribute bad and vile motive to I , ' she begin , with tear of anger and resentment .
' I be all right , not weak , nor anything ... I feel that it be my duty to be with my husband when he be in trouble , but you wish to hurt I on purpose , you purposely do not want to understand I ! '
' no , this be awful ... be a sort of slave ! ' exclaim Levin , unable to restrain his annoyance any long , but immediately conscious that he have deal a blow to himself .
' then why do you marry ?
you might have be free !
why , since you be repent ? ' she say , and jump up and run into the drawing - room .
when he come in after she , she be sob .
he begin speak , try to find word not so much to dissuade as to pacify she .
but she do not listen and do not agree to anything he say .
he stoop and take her resist hand ; he kiss her hand , her hair , and again her hand , but she remain silent .
but when he take her face in his hand and say ' Kitty ! ' she suddenly recover , cry a little , and then they make it up .
it be settle that they would start together the next day .
Levin tell his wife he believe she only want to go that she might be of use , and agree that Mary Nikolavna 's presence at his brother 's would not make it at all improper ; but he be go , dissatisfied in the depth of his heart with both himself and she .
he be dissatisfied with she because she could not face let he go when it be necessary ( and how strange it be to think that he , who such a short time ago dared not believe in the happiness of she love he , now feel unhappy because she love he too much ! ) , and dissatisfy with himself because he have not maintain his authority .
still less could he with conviction agree that the woman who be with his brother do not matter , and he think with terror of all the encounter that might take place .
the single fact that his wife , his Kitty , would be in the same room with a girl off the street make he shudder with repulsion and horror .
chapter xvii
the HOTEL in the provincial town where Nicholas Levin be lie ill be one of those provincial hotel arrange after new and improved model , with the good intention of cleanliness , comfort and even elegance , but which , owe to the people who use they , very soon degenerate into mere dirty pothouse with pretension to modern improvement , these very pretension make they bad than the old - fashioned inn which be simply dirty .
this hotel have already reach this stage : everything – the soldier in a dirty uniform smoke a cigarette at the front door , act as a hall - porter , the dismal and unpleasant ornamental cast - iron staircase ; the free and easy waiter in a dirty dress coat , the general room with a dusty bouquet of wax flower decorate the table , the dust and slovenliness everywhere , mingle with a kind of modern , self - satisfy railway - induce state of bustle . all this cause a feeling of depression in the Levins after their fresh home life ; especially as the air of artificiality about this hotel be quite irreconcilable with what be await they .
as usual , after the inquiry as to what price room they desire , it turn out that there be not a single good room vacant : one good room be occupy by a railway inspector , another by a lawyer from Moscow , a third by the Princess Astafyeva from the country .
there be just one dirty room to be have , but they be promise that an adjoining one would be free by the evening .
vex with his wife because his expectation be be realize – namely , that , at the moment of arrival when his heart be seize with agitation at the thought of his brother 's condition , he be oblige to consider she instead of run to he at once – Levin lead she to the room .
' go , go ! ' she say with a timid , guilty look at he .
he go out silently , and at the very door come upon Mary Nikolavna , who have hear of his arrival but have not dare to enter .
she be just the same as he have see she in Moscow – the same stuff dress without collar or cuff , and the same kindly , dull , pock - mark face , only somewhat stouter .
' well ? how be he ?
what be it ? '
' very bad !
do not get up .
he be expect you all the time .
he ... you ... be with your wife ? '
for a moment he do not understand the cause of her confusion , but she immediately explain it .
' I will go ... I will go to the kitchen , ' she bring out .
' he will be pleased . he hear ; and he know and remember she abroad . '
Levin understand that she refer to his wife , and do not know what to say .
' come along , come ! ' he say .
but he have hardly move when the door open and Kitty look out .
Levin blush with shame and vexation at his wife for having place herself and he in this awkward position ; but Mary Nikolavna blush still more .
she shrink together , flush till tear fill her eye , and seize the end of her shawl begin twist they in her red finger , not know what to say or do .
at the first glance Levin see an expression of eager curiosity in the look with which Kitty gaze at this incomprehensible and terrible woman , but it last only an instant .
' well , how be he ?
how be he ? ' she say , address first her husband and then the woman .
' dear I , we can not talk in the corridor ! ' say Levin , look crossly at a man who be just pass along with jerky step , ostensibly on business of his own .
' well , then , come in , ' say Kitty to Mary Nikolavna , who have regain her self - control ; ' or well still , you go on and send for I , ' she continue , notice her husband 's frightened look , and then return to their room .
Levin go to his brother .
he have not expect what he see and feel when he reach his brother 's side .
he have expect to find he in that state of self - deception which , he have hear , be frequent in consumptive case and which have so strike he at the time of his brother 's visit to he in the autumn .
he have expect to find the physical sign of approach death more definite : great weakness , great emaciation , but still the same sort of condition generally .
he have expect to feel the same sorrow at the loss of a loved brother and the same horror of death he have then experience , but to a great degree , and have prepare himself for all this ; but what he find be quite different .
in the dirty little room with a paint dado spot with spittle , behind the thin partition - wall of which could be hear the sound of voice , in stuffy , smelly , foul air , on a bed draw away from the wall , lie a body cover with a blanket .
one arm of that body lie outside the blanket , and the enormous hand , like a rake , seem to be attach in some incomprehensible way to a long thin spindle that be quite straight from the end to the middle .
the head lie on its side on the pillow .
Levin could see the moist thin hair on the temple and the draw transparent - look forehead .
' impossible that this terrible body can be my brother Nicholas , ' he think .
but he draw near , see the face , and doubt be no long possible .
in spite of the dreadful change on the face , Levin have only to glance at those live eye raise toward he , to notice the slight movement of the mouth beneath the clammy moustache , in order to understand the dreadful truth that this dead body be his live brother .
the glitter eye glance severely and reproachfully at the brother who be enter , and this glance immediately establish living relation between live people .
Levin at once feel the reproach in the look fix on he , and a sense of repentance because of his own happiness .
when Constantine take he by the hand , Nicholas smile .
the smile be very faint , hardly perceptible , and in spite of it the stern expression of the eye do not change .
' you do not expect to find I like this ? ' he say , speak with difficulty .
' yes ... no ... ' say Levin , confuse his word . ' how be it you do not let I know soon , I mean at the time of my marriage ?
I inquire for you everywhere . '
he be impel to speak in order not to remain silent , but do not know what to say , especially as his brother make no reply but only gaze fixedly at he , evidently try to fathom the meaning of every word .
Levin tell his brother that his wife have come with he .
Nicholas seem pleased at this , but say he be afraid the condition he be in might frighten she .
a silence follow .
suddenly Nicholas move and begin to talk .
from his expression Levin expect he to say something specially significant and important , but Nicholas only talk about his health .
he find fault with the doctor , and regret that he could not have a celebrate Moscow doctor ; so Levin understand that he be still hope .
take advantage of the first moment of silence , Levin get up , wish to free himself if only for a few minute from his painful sensation , and say he would fetch his wife .
' all right , and I will have the place clean up a bit .
it be dirty here , and it smell , I should think . Masha !
tidy up , ' say the invalid with an effort . ' and when you have finish , go away , ' he add , with a questioning look at his brother .
Levin do not reply .
he go out and stop in the corridor .
he have say he would bring his wife but now , analyse the impression he be experience , he make up his mind that he would on the contrary try to dissuade she from enter the sick - room .
' why should she too be torture as I be ? ' he reflect .
' well , how be he ? '
Kitty ask with a frightened look .
' oh , it be awful ! awful !
why do you come ? ' say Levin .
Kitty be silent a moment , look timidly and pitifully at her husband , then she approach and take hold of his elbow with both hand .
' Kostya , take I to he ! it will be easy for we to bear it together !
just take I there and then go away , ' she begin . ' try and realize that for I to see you and not to see he be much more painful .
there I can perhaps be of use to he and you .
please let I ! ' she entreat as if her happiness depend on it .
he be oblige to yield , and having recover , and quite forget Mary Nikolavna , he return with Kitty to his brother .
step lightly and glance repeatedly at her husband , show he a brave face full of sympathy she enter the sick - room , and , turn without haste , noiselessly close the door .
with noiseless step she advance toward the bedside , go round so that he need not turn his head , and at once grasp his enormous skeleton hand with her fresh young one , press it , and with that sympathetic , quiet animation which give no offence and be natural only to woman , she begin to talk to he .
' it be in Soden we meet , but we be not acquaint , ' she say . ' you little think I should one day be your sister ? '
' you would not have know I again ? ' he ask , with a smile that have light up his face at her entrance .
' oh yes , I should !
what a good thing it be that you do send we word !
not a day pass without Kostya 's thinking and be anxious about you . '
the sick man 's animation do not last long .
she have not finish speak before that stern reproachful look of jealousy , feel by the dying for the living , settle on his face .
' I be afraid you be not quite comfortable here , ' she say , turn away from his penetrate glance and look round the room . ' we shall have to ask the landlord for another room , and see that we be near to each other , ' she say to her husband .
chapter XVIII
LEVIN could not look at his brother calmly and could not be either natural or tranquil in his presence .
when he enter the sickroom his eye and his attention become clouded without his be conscious of it , and he do not see or distinguish the various detail of his brother 's condition .
he smelt the terribly foul air , see the dirt and disorder , the agonizing posture of the body , and hear the groan ; but he feel there be no help for it .
it never enter his head to consider all these detail and imagine how that body be lie under the blanket , how the emaciate , double - up shin , loin , and back be place , and whether it would not be possible to place they more comfortably or do something , if not to make he comfortable , at least to make his condition a little more tolerable .
a cold shudder creep down his back when he begin to think of those detail .
he be convince beyond doubt that nothing could be do to prolong that life or to alleviate those suffering , and the sick man be conscious of his brother 's conviction that there be no help for he , and this irritate he .
this make Levin 's position still hard .
to be in the sick - room be torture to Levin , but to be absent from it be still bad .
he go out continually on all sort of pretext , come back and go out again , incapable of remain alone .
but Kitty feel and act quite differently .
when she see the invalid she pity he , and that pity produce in her woman 's soul not the horror and repulsion which it evoke in her husband but a need for action , for find out all the particular of his condition , and a desire to help he .
those very detail , the thought of which alone fill her husband with horror , at once arrest her attention .
she send for the doctor , send to the chemist 's , make the maid she have bring with her help Mary Nikolavna sweep , dust , and wash ; and herself wash and scrub some article and spread something under the blanket .
at her command thing be bring in and take out of the sick - room .
she herself go several time to their own room and , without pay any attention to the people she meet , bring back with her sheet , pillow - case , towel , and shirt .
the waiter , who be serve a meal to some engineer in the drawing - room , come up several time at her summon with a cross look on his face , but could not help fulfil her order ; she give they with such kindly insistence that it be impossible to disobey she .
Levin disapprove of all this , not believe that any good could come of it to the invalid .
above all he be afraid that his brother might get angry about it .
but the sick man , though apparently indifferent to it all , be not angry but only ashamed , and on the whole appear rather interested in what she be do for he .
when Levin open the door , on his return from the doctor 's whither Kitty have send he , he see the invalid at the moment when at Kitty 's command Mary Nikolavna and the waiter be put a clean shirt on he .
the long white skeleton back with the enormous shoulder - blade and protrude rib and vertebrae be bare , and Mary Nikolavna with the waiter 's help somehow get one of the shirt - sleeve twist and could not guide the long limp arm into it .
Kitty , having hurriedly shut the door behind Levin , be not look that way ; but the invalid moan and she come toward he .
' be quick ! ' she say .
' do not come here , ' mutter the sick man angrily . ' I can myself ... '
' what do you say ? ' ask Mary Nikolavna .
but Kitty have hear , and understand that he feel embarrassed and uncomfortable at be strip in her presence .
' I be not look , ' she say , help the arm in . ' Mary Nikolavna , you go round to the other side and put it right , ' she add .
' there be a little bottle in my handbag , ' she go on , turn to her husband . ' you know , in the side pocket ! please go and get it , and meanwhile everything will be put straight here . '
when Levin return with the bottle he find the invalid arrange in bed and everything around he quite altered .
instead of the foul smell there be an odour of vinegar and of scent , which Kitty – pout her lip and puff out her rosy cheek – be blow through a little glass tube .
there be no trace of dust leave about ; there be a mat beside the bed ; on the table medicine bottle and a bottle of water be neatly place , also a pile of fold linen which would be require later , and Kitty 's embroidery .
on another table by the bedside be a glass of some refreshing drink and some powder .
the invalid himself , wash and with his hair brush , lie between clean sheet in a clean shirt , its white collar round his abnormally thin neck , gaze with a new look of hope at Kitty and not take his eye off she .
the doctor whom Levin have fetch , and whom he have find at a club , be not the one who have hitherto attend Nicholas , with whom the patient be dissatisfied .
the new doctor take out a stethoscope and sound he , shake his head , prescribe some medicine and give extremely precise instruction about give the medicine and about diet .
he order raw or very lightly boil egg , and seltzer water with new milk at a certain temperature .
when the doctor have go the patient say something to his brother of which Levin catch only the last word : ' your kate ' ; but by the look he give she Levin see that his brother be praise she .
he ask ' Kate , ' as he call she , to come near .
' I feel much well , ' he say . ' have I be with you I should have recover long ago .
how pleasant ! ' he take her hand and draw it toward his lip , but as if fearful that this might be disagreeable to she he change his mind , let her hand drop , and merely stroke it .
Kitty take his hand in both of hers and press it .
' now turn I over on the left side and go to bed , ' he murmur .
no one hear what he say , but Kitty understand he .
she understand because her mind incessantly watch for his need .
' on the other side , ' she say to her husband , ' he always sleep on that side .
turn he over . it be unpleasant to call the servant , and I can not do it .
can you ? ' she say , address Mary Nikolavna .
' I be afraid to , ' answer Mary Nikolavna .
dreadful as it seem to Levin to put his arm round that terrible body , to grasp those part under the blanket which he do not wish to remember , yet submit to his wife , with that determine expression which she know , he thrust his arm under the blanket , and despite his great strength be strike by the strange heaviness of those emaciate limb .
while he be turn he , with the enormous lean arm about his neck , Kitty quickly and unostentatiously turn and beat the pillow , and arrange the invalid 's head and the hair that again clung to the temple .
the patient retain his brother 's hand in his .
Levin feel that he wish to do something with his hand and be pull at it , and yield with a sink heart .
yes , his brother draw the hand to his lip and kiss it .
Levin , tremble , choke with sob and unable to utter a word , leave the room .
chapter xix
' thou HAST hid these thing from the wise and prudent , and hast reveal they unto babe , ' think Levin while talk with his wife that night .
he think of the Gospel text not because he consider himself wise – he do not – but because he could not help know that he be more intelligent than his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna ; he could not help know that when he think about death he think with all the power of his soul .
he know too that many great and virile mind , whose thought on that subject he have read , have ponder it , and yet do not know a hundredth part of what his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna know on the subject .
different as be those two woman , Agatha Mikhaylovna and Kitty – or ' kate ' as Nicholas call she , and as Levin be also fond of call she now – in that respect they be exactly alike .
both know with certainty what life be and what death be , and though they would have be quite unable not only to answer but even to understand the question which confront Levin , neither doubt the importance of those phenomenon , and they both have exactly the same outlook upon they – an outlook share not only by they but by million of other .
the proof that they know surely what death be , lie in the fact that they know without a minute 's hesitation how to behave with the dying and do not fear they .
but Levin and other , though they be able to say a great deal about death , evidently do not know anything , for they fear it and have no notion what to do when people be die .
have Levin now be alone with his brother Nicholas , he would have look at he with horror , and would have wait about in still great horror not know what to do next .
More than that , he do not know what to say , how to look , or how to step .
to talk of indifferent thing seem an affront , and he could not do it ; to talk of death and dismal thing be likewise impossible , and it be equally impossible to keep silent .
' I fear that if I look at he he will think I be watch . if I do not look , he will imagine I be think of something else .
if I walk on tiptoe he will be displeased , and yet I be ashamed to tread on the whole of my foot . '
but Kitty evidently do not think and have no time to think of herself . she , prompt by some inner conviction , think of he , and everything come out right .
she talk to he about herself and about her wedding , smile , sympathize , caress he , mention case of recovery , and it be all successful , so she evidently know what she be about .
the proof that she and Agatha Mikhaylovna 's behaviour be not instinctive , animal , and unreasoning lie in the fact that they both demand for the die man something of great importance than mere physical care , something that have nothing in common with physical condition . Agatha Mikhaylovna , speak of the old man who have die , have say : ' well , God be thank !
he receive Communion and Extreme Unction ; God grant everybody to die so ! ' just in the same way Kitty , besides all her care about linen , bedsore , and cool drink , have manage on the very first day to persuade the invalid of the necessity of receive Communion and Extreme Unction .
when Levin return to their two room for the night he sit with hang head not know what to do .
not only could he not think of supper , of get ready for the night , of consider what they be to do , he could not even talk to his wife : he be ashamed to .
Kitty , on the contrary , be more active than usual and even more animate .
she order supper to be bring , unpack their thing herself , help to make the bed and do not forget to sprinkle insect powder on they .
she be in that highly - work state when the reasoning power act with great rapidity ; the state a man be in before a battle or a struggle , in danger , and at the decisive moment of life – those moment when a man show once for all what he be worth , that his past be not live in vain but be a preparation for these moment .
all she do be well do , and before midnight everything be sort , clean , and neat , so that their apartment show a resemblance to her own room at home : bed make , comb , brush and looking - glass lay out , and cover spread .
it seem to Levin that it would be inexcusable to eat , sleep , or even to talk , and he feel that his every movement be improper .
she , however , sort comb and brush , and do it all in such a way that there be nothing offensive about it .
however , they could not eat anything , nor sleep for a long time , and even do not go to bed till very late .
' I be very glad I have persuade he to receive Extreme Unction to - morrow , ' she say as she sit in her dressing - jacket before her folding - glass and comb her soft fragrant hair with a small comb . ' I have never be present , but Mama tell I that there be prayer for the restoration of health ... '
' do you really think he can recover ? ' he ask , look at the back of her round little head , at the narrow parting which close every time she draw the comb forward .
' I ask the doctor . he say he can not live more than three day .
but how can they know ?
still , I be very glad I persuade he , ' she say , turn her eye toward her husband from behind her hair . ' everything be possible , ' she add with the peculiar and rather cunning expression which always appear on her face when she speak of religious matter .
since their talk about religion during their engagement neither he nor she have ever start a conversation on that subject ; but she continue to observe the rite , go to church , and pray , always with the same quiet conviction that it be necessary to do so .
in spite of his assurance to the contrary she be persuade that he be a Christian , like , and even well than , herself and that all he say about it be one of his funny male whim , like his saying about her embroidery : that good people darn hole , while she cut hole on purpose ... and so on .
' yes , you see that woman Mary Nikolavna could not arrange all that , ' say Levin . ' i ... I must confess I be very , very glad you come . you be purity itself , and ... ' he take her hand and do not kiss it ( to do so with death so near seem to he unbecoming ) , but only press it , look guiltily into her brightening eye .
' it would have be so painful for you alone , ' she say , and raise her arm high so that they hide her cheek , now flush with pleasure , she twist her braid hair and pin it up at the back of her head . ' no , ' she continue , ' she do not know how to ...
luckily I learn a good deal in Soden . '
' can there have be such sick people there ? '
' oh , bad . '
' it be so terrible to I that I can not help see he as he be when young ...
you would not believe what a charming lad he be , and I do not understand he then . '
' I quite believe it , quite .
I feel that we should have be friend , he and I ... ' she say , and , frighten at her own word , she glance at her husband , and tear fill her eye .
' yes , would have be , ' he say sadly . ' he be really one of those of whom it be say , they be not for this world . '
' however , we have hard day before we – let we go to bed , ' say Kitty with a glance at her tiny watch .
chapter XX
DEATH
NEXT DAY the patient RECEIVED COMMUNION and Extreme Unction .
during the ceremony he pray fervently .
in his large eye , fix upon an icon which have be place on a little table cover with a coloured cloth , be a look of such passionate entreaty and hope that Levin be frightened at see it .
he know that this passionate entreaty and hope would only make the parting from the life he so love more difficult .
Levin know his brother and the direction of his thought , know that he have become a sceptic not because it be easy for he to live without faith , but because step by step modern scientific explanation of the phenomenon of the universe have drive out his faith ; he know therefore that this return to the old faith be not legitimate , not a similar result of thought , but be only a temporary , selfish and irrational hope of recovery .
Levin know too that Kitty have strengthen that hope by tale of extraordinary recovery of which she have hear .
know all this , Levin suffer much as he see that look full of entreaty and hope , that emaciated hand lift with effort , in make the sign of the cross , to touch the draw skin of the forehead , the protrude shoulder - blade and the hollow hoarse chest which could no long contain that life for which the invalid be pray .
during the sacrament Levin do that which , agnostic though he be , he have do a thousand time before .
he say , address himself to God , ' if thou dost exist , heal this man ( such thing have often happen ) , and Thou wilt save both he and I ! '
after receive Extreme Unction the invalid suddenly feel well .
he do not cough once for a whole hour , smile , kiss Kitty 's hand , thank she with tear in his eye , and say he feel well , have no pain , but have an appetite and feel strong .
he even sit up when they bring he some soup , and ask for a cutlet too .
hopeless as his case be , obvious as it be that he could not recover , Levin and Kitty be for that hour both in the same state of excitement , happy yet timid and fearful of be mistaken .
' well – yes , much well . – wonderful ! – it be not at all wonderful . still , he be well ! ' they say in whisper , smile at one another .
but this illusion do not last long .
the invalid fall quietly asleep , but awake half an hour later with a fit of coughing , and immediately every hope flee from those around he and from himself .
the reality of his suffering destroy it , leave no trace nor even any recollection of the former hope , in Levin , Kitty , or the patient himself .
not refer to what he have believe half an hour previously , as though he be ashamed to remember it , Nicholas tell they to give he a bottle of iodine cover with perforated paper for inhale .
Levin hand it to he , and at once the look of passionate hope with which the invalid have receive Extreme Unction be fix on his brother , demand from he a confirmation of the doctor 's word to the effect that inhale iodine work miracle .
' Kitty be not here ? ' he ask hoarsely , glance round when Levin have reluctantly confirm the doctor 's statement .
' no ? then I can tell you ...
it be for her sake I go through that comedy – she be such a dear !
but you and I can not deceive ourselves like that ! now , in this I do believe , ' he say , clutch the bottle with his bony hand and begin to inhale from it .
between seven and eight o'clock that evening Levin and his wife be drink tea in their room when Mary Nikolavna rush in breathless .
' he be die ! ' she whisper . ' I be afraid he will die immediately . '
both run to his room .
he be sit up with his long back bent , lean his elbow on the bed and hang his head .
' what do you feel ? ' ask Levin in a whisper , after a pause .
' I feel I be depart , ' utter Nicholas with an effort , but very distinctly , as if he be press the word out of his body .
he do not lift his head but only turn up his eye , fail to reach his brother 's face . ' kate , go away , ' he add .
Levin jump up and in a commanding whisper tell she to leave the room .
' departing ! ' Nicholas repeat .
' why do you think that ? ' ask Levin , in order to say something .
' because I be depart , ' he repeat , as if that word please he . ' it be the end . '
Mary Nikolavna approach .
' you have well lie down , you would feel easy , ' she say .
' I will soon be lie , ' he say softly . ' Dead ! ' he add cynically and angrily . ' well , lie I down if you like . '
Levin lay his brother on his back , sit down beside he , and hold his breath gaze at his face .
the die man lie with closed eye , but at interval the muscle of his forehead work as if he be think deeply and intently .
Levin involuntarily meditate upon what be take place within his brother at that moment , but , in spite of all the effort of his mind to follow , he see by the expression of that calm stern face and the play of the muscle above one eyebrow that something be become clear to the die man which for Levin remain as dark as ever :
' yes , yes ! that be so ! ' slowly pause between the word , the die man murmur , ' wait a bit . ' he be silent again . ' that be so ! ' he drawl in a tone of relief , as if he have find a solution . ' oh God ! ' he mutter with a heavy sigh .
Mary Nikolavna feel his foot . ' grow cold , ' she whisper .
for a long , a very long , time as it seem to Levin the invalid lie motionless , but he still live and at long interval sigh .
Levin be already weary by the mental strain .
he feel that despite all his mental effort he could not understand what be ' so ' and be already lag far behind his die brother .
he be no long able to reflect on the actual problem of death , and could not hinder thought about what he would soon have to do : to close his brother 's eye , dress he , order a coffin .
and strange to say he feel quite cold , and experience neither joy nor grief nor a sense of loss , still less of pity , for his brother .
if he have any feeling leave for he it be more like envy of that knowledge which the die man now possess and which he might not share .
for a long time he sit lean over Nicholas , wait for the end .
but the end do not come .
the door open and Kitty appear .
Levin rise to stop she , but at that moment he hear the die man move .
' do not go , ' say Nicholas and stretch out his hand .
Levin give he his hand , sign angrily with the other to his wife .
with his brother 's hand in his , Levin sit half an hour , then an hour , and yet another hour .
he now no long think about death at all .
he be wonder what Kitty be do , who live in the next room , and whether the doctor have a house of his own .
he wish to eat and sleep .
carefully disengage his hand he feel his brother 's foot .
they be cold , but he be still breathe .
Levin try to go out on tiptoe , but the invalid move again and say , ' do not go ... '
Day begin to dawn , but the sick man 's condition remain the same .
Levin gently disengage his hand , and without look at his brother go to his own room and fall asleep .
when he wake , instead of the news he expect , that his brother be dead , he hear that his former condition have return .
he again sit up , cough , eat and talk , no long of death , express hope of recovery , and be even more irritable and depressed than before .
no one , neither his brother nor Kitty , could comfort he .
he be angry with every one , say disagreeable thing , blame everybody for his suffering , and demand that they should fetch a celebrated doctor from Moscow .
to all question of how he feel , he give the same answer , with an angry and reproachful look : ' I be suffer terribly , intolerably ! '
the sick man suffer more and more , especially from bedsore which would no long heal , and he grow more and more irritable with those about he , particularly because they do not bring the doctor from Moscow .
Kitty try to help he and comfort he in every possible way , but it be all in vain , and Levin see that she herself be wear out physically and mentally , though she would not admit it .
that consciousness of death which have be evoke in they all by his farewell to life on the night he have send for his brother be destroy .
every one know he would soon and inevitably die , that he be already half dead .
every one wish that he would die quickly , and they all , conceal that feeling , bring he bottle of medicine , go to fetch medicine and doctor , and deceive he and themselves and one another .
it be all a lie : a repulsive , insulting , blasphemous lie ; and as a result of his character , and because he love the die man more than the other do , Levin feel that lie most painfully .
Levin , who have long wish to reconcile his brother , even if only at the moment of death , have write to Sergius Ivanich , and having receive his answer read it to Nicholas .
Sergius Ivanich write that he could not come personally , but , in touching word , ask his brother 's pardon .
the invalid make no comment .
' what be I to write to he ? ' ask Levin . ' I hope you be not angry with he ? '
' no , not at all , ' answer Nicholas , vex at the question . ' tell he to send I a doctor . '
another three day of torture go by . the sick man be still in the same condition .
every one who see he now desire his death : the waiter in the hotel , the proprietor , all the other visitor there , the doctor , Mary Nikolavna , Levin , and Kitty .
only the invalid himself do not show that desire , but on the contrary be angry because the doctor have not be fetch , and he continue take medicine and talk of life .
only at rare moment , when opium make he forget his incessant suffering for a moment , do he sometimes when half asleep express what be strong in his soul than in any of the other ' : ' oh , if only it be over ! ' or ' when will this end ! '
his suffering , regularly increase , do their work of prepare he for death .
there be no position that do not cause he pain ; no moment of forgetfulness ; no part of his body that do not hurt and torment he .
even the memory , impression , and thought , within his body now arouse in he the same sort of repulsion as the body itself .
the sight of other person , their word , his own recollection , give he nothing but pain .
those about he feel this , and unconsciously do not permit themselves either to move freely , talk or express their own wish in his presence .
his life be quite swallow up in a consciousness of suffering and a desire to be release from it .
it be clear the change be take place within he which would bring he to regard death as a fulfilment of his desire , as happiness .
formerly every separate desire cause by suffering or privation , such as hunger or thirst , be relieve by some bodily action which bring enjoyment ; but now privation and suffering be not follow by relief , but the attempt to obtain relief occasion fresh suffering .
therefore all his desire be merge into one : a desire to be release from all this pain and from its source – his body .
he have no word to express his desire for this liberation , and therefore do not speak of it ; but go on from habit demand satisfaction of those wish that could be fulfil .
' turn I on the other side , ' he say , and immediately afterwards ask to be put back as he have be .
' give I some beef tea ... take it away .
tell I something !
why do not you speak ? '
then as soon as they begin to talk he shut his eye and express weariness , indifference , and disgust .
on the tenth day after their arrival in that town Kitty fall ill .
she have a headache , be sick , and could not leave her bed all the morning .
the doctor explain her illness as the result of fatigue and agitation , and order mental tranquillity .
after dinner , however , Kitty get up and go as usual to the sick man , take her embroidery .
Nicholas look at her sternly when she enter , and smile contemptuously when she say she have be ill .
that day he continually blow his nose and moan piteously .
' how do you feel ? ' she ask he .
' bad , ' he answer with an effort . ' it hurt ! '
' where do it hurt ' ?
' everywhere . '
' to - day it will end , you will see , ' say Mary Nikolavna in a whisper , but so that the invalid , whose sense be very acute , be , as Levin see , sure to hear she .
Levin say ' Hush ! ' and turn to look at his brother .
Nicholas have hear , but the word have no effect on he ; his look remain reproachful and strained .
' why do you think so ? ' Levin ask , when she have follow he into the corridor .
' he have begin to clutch at himself , ' reply Mary Nikolavna .
' Clutch ? how ? '
' like this , ' she say , pull at the fold of her stuff dress .
and Levin notice that all day long the sick man really keep catch at himself as if wish to pull something off .
Mary Nikolavna 's prophecy be fulfil .
toward night the patient could no long raise his hand , and only gaze straight before he without change the attentive concentrated expression of his eye .
even when his brother or Kitty bend over he so that he could see they , he do not look at they .
Kitty send for the priest to read the prayer for the dying .
while the priest read , the die man show no sign of life : his eye be closed .
Levin , Kitty , and Mary Nikolavna stand by the bedside .
the prayer be not yet end when the die man stretch himself ; sigh and open his eye .
having finish the prayer , the priest touch the cold forehead with his cross which he then wrap in his stole , and after stand in silence another two minute , touch the enormous bloodless hand , which be grow cold .
' he have pass away , ' say the priest and turn to go ; but suddenly the clammy moustache of the die man move and from the depth of his chest through the stillness come his voice , sharp and distinct :
' not quite ! ...
soon . '
a moment later his face brighten , a smile appear under the moustache , and the woman who have gather round he begin zealously to lay out the body .
the sight of his brother and the proximity of death renew in Levin 's soul that feeling of horror at the inscrutability , nearness , and inevitability of death which have seize he on that autumn evening when his brother have arrive in the country .
that feeling be now strong even than before ; he feel even less able than before to understand the meaning of death , and its inevitability appear yet more terrible to he ; but now , thank to his wife 's presence , that feeling do not drive he to despair ; in spite of death , he feel the necessity of live and loving .
he feel that love have save he from despair , and that that love under the menace of despair grow still strong and purer .
scarcely have the unexplained mystery of death be enact before his eye when another mystery just as inexplicable present itself , call to love and life .
the doctor confirm their supposition about Kitty .
her illness be pregnancy .
chapter XXI
from the moment that KARENIN understand from his conversation with Betsy and Oblonsky that all that be ask of he be that he should leave his wife in peace and not trouble she with his presence and that his wife herself wish this , he feel so lost that he could decide nothing for himself , do not know what he now want , and having place himself in the hand of those who with so much pleasure busy themselves with his affair , he consent to everything .
only after Anna have leave his house , and the english governess send to ask he whether she be to dine with he or alone , do he for the first time clearly understand his position , and he be horror - strike at it .
what be most painful in his situation be his inability to reconcile his past life with the present state of thing .
it be not the past when he live happily with his wife that perplex he , the transition from that past to the consciousness of his wife 's infidelity he have already painfully pass through ; that have be try , but it be comprehensible .
have his wife then , after confess her infidelity , leave he , he would have be grieve and unhappy , but he would not have feel himself to be in such an unintelligible impasse as now .
he could not at all reconcile his recent forgiveness , his emotion and love for his sick wife and for another man 's baby , with the present position : with the fact that , as if in reward for all that , he be now leave alone , disgrace , ridicule , not want by anyone and despise by all .
the first two day after his wife 's departure Karenin receive petitioner , and his private secretary , attend Committee meeting , and go to the dining - room to dinner as usual .
without render account to himself why he do it , during those two day he try with all his might to appear calm and even indifferent .
when answer question as to what should be do with Anna 's room and belonging , he make the great effort to seem like a man by whom what have take place have not be unforeseen , and who do not consider it extraordinary . in this he succeed : no one could have observe in he any sign of despair .
but on the third day , when Korney bring he a bill from a firm of milliner which Anna have forget to pay , and inform he that the shopman have come in person , he have he bring in .
' excuse I , your Excellency , for take the liberty of trouble you !
but if you wish we to address ourselves to her Excellency , please be so good as to let we have her address ! '
Karenin appear to be consider , when suddenly he turn round and sit down at the table .
drop his head on his hand he sit thus for a long time , try several time to speak , but stop short .
comprehend his master 's emotion , Korney ask the assistant to come again another time .
Karenin , leave alone , realize that he could not any long maintain an appearance of firmness and calm .
he order the carriage that be wait , to be unharness , say that he would receive no one , and do not appear at dinner .
he feel that he could not bear the general pressure of contempt and harshness which he have clearly see in the face of that shop - assistant and of Korney , and of every one without exception whom he have meet during those two day .
he feel that he could not divert from himself people 's hatred , because that hatred be cause not by his badness ( have it be so he might have try to be well ) but by his disgraceful and repulsive misery .
he know that for that reason – because his heart be rent in piece – they would be pitiless toward he .
he feel that people would destroy he , as dog kill a torture dog that be whine with pain .
he know that the only way of escape from man be to hide his wound from they . he have unconsciously try to do so for two day , and now feel himself unable to continue the unequal struggle .
his despair be heighten by the consciousness that he be quite alone in his sorrow .
not only be there not a soul in Petersburg to whom he could express what he feel , who would pity he , not as a high official , not as a member of a society , but simply as a suffer human being – but nowhere at all have he any such friend .
Karenin have be leave an orphan .
there be two of they : he have a brother .
they could not remember their father , and their mother die when Alexis Alexandrovich be ten year old .
they have small mean .
their uncle , Karenin , a high official and at one time a favourite with the late Emperor , bring they up .
having take a medal on finishing , both at school and at the university , Karenin , by his uncle 's help , start at once on a conspicuous path in the Civil Service , and from that time devote himself entirely to official ambition .
neither at school nor at the university , nor afterwards , in the Service , do he enter into friendly relation with anyone .
his brother be near to his heart , but he serve under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and always live abroad , where he die soon after Alexis Alexandrovich 's marriage .
at the time when he be Governor of a Province , Anna 's aunt , a rich provincial lady , introduce he , who though not a young man be a young Governor , to her niece , and contrive to put he in such a position that he be oblige either to propose or leave the town .
Karenin hesitate long .
at that time there be as many reason for the step as against it , but there be no such decisive reason as to make he neglect his rule of refrain when in doubt . but Anna 's aunt intimate to he , through an acquaintance , that he have already compromise the girl , and that he be in honour bind to propose to she .
he propose , and devote to his betrothed and to his wife all the feeling of which he be capable .
his attachment to Anna exclude from his soul any need he have feel for affectionate relation with other person ; and now , among all his acquaintance , he have no intimate friend .
he be connect with many people , but have friendly relation with none .
he know many person whom he could invite to dinner , could ask to take part in anything he be interested in or to use their influence for some petitioner , and with whom he could frankly discuss the action of other man and of the government ; but his relation with these person be confine to a sphere strictly limit by custom and habit from which it be impossible to escape .
there be a fellow - student at the university with whom he have subsequently become friendly , and to whom he might have speak of his grief ; but that fellow - student be now curator in a distant educational district .
of the Petersburg people the most intimate and most likely be the doctor , and Michael Vasilich Slyudin , his private secretary .
Slyudin be an unaffected , intelligent , kindly and moral man , who , Karenin feel , have a personal liking for himself ; but their five year ' official activity together have build a barrier in the way of any intimate talk between they .
once Karenin , having finish sign document , remain silent a long time , glance now and then at Michael Vasilich , and try several time but be unable to begin speak .
he have prepare a phrase : ' you have hear of my misfortune ? ' but it end by his saying merely the usual , ' then you will get this ready for I ? ' and let he go .
the other person , the doctor , be also well - inclined toward Karenin , but they have long ago come to a tacit understanding that they be both overwhelmed with work and have no time to spare .
of his woman friend , include the principal one among they , the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , Karenin do not think at all .
all woman , as such , appear to he dreadful and repulsive .
chapter XXII
KARENIN have FORGOTTEN the COUNTESS Lydia Ivanovna , but she have not forget he .
at that most painful time of lonely despair she come to his house and enter his study unannounced .
she find he in the posture in which he have long sit , rest his head on his hand .
' j'ai forcé la consigne ! [ ' I 've force my way in . ' ] she say as she enter with hurried step , breathe heavily from her rapid movement and from excitement .
' I have hear everything .
Alexis Alexandrovich , my dear friend ! ' she continue , firmly clasp his hand in both hers and gaze with her beautiful dreamy eye into his .
Karenin rise frown , and disengage his hand move a chair toward she .
' if you please , Countess ! – I do not receive because I be ill , ' he say , and his lip tremble .
' my dear friend ! ' repeat the Countess with her eye fix on he ; and suddenly the inner corner of her eyebrow rise , form a triangle on her forehead , and her plain yellow face grow still plainer ; but Karenin feel that she be sorry for he and ready to cry .
he be move , and seize her plump hand begin kiss it .
' my dear friend ! ' she repeat in a voice break by emotion , ' you must not give way to sorrow .
your sorrow be great , but you will find consolation . '
' I be break , I be stricken ! I be no long a man ! ' say Karenin , release her hand but continue to gaze into her tearful eye . ' my position be terrible because I can not find support anywhere , can not find it even in myself . '
' you will find support ; do not seek it in I , though I want you to believe in my friendship , ' she reply with a sigh . ' love be the only support , that love which he have bequeath we !
his yoke be easy , ' she go on with that ecstatic look he know so well . ' he will support you and help you ! '
though it be evident that she be touch by her own lofty sentiment , and though her word proceed from that new , ecstatic , mystic influence which have lately spread through Petersburg and which Karenin have consider superfluous , it be pleasant to he to hear they now .
' I be weak – I be do for !
I do not foresee it and do not understand it now ! '
' my dear friend ! ' Lydia Ivanovna say once more .
' it be not the loss of what no long exist , it be not that , ' continue Karenin .
' I do not regret that , but I can not help feel ashamed before other of the position I be in .
that be wrong , but I can not help it , I can not . '
' it be not you who have perform that great act of forgiveness which fill I and everybody else with rapture , but he that dwell within your heart , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , turn up her eye ecstatically , ' and therefore you must not be ashamed of your action . '
Karenin frown , and bend his hand backward begin crack his finger .
' one must know all the detail , ' he say in a high - pitch voice . ' human strength have its limit , Countess , and I have reach the limit of mine .
all day long I have have to take domestic decision result from ' ( he emphasize the word ' result ' ) ' my new solitary position .
the servant , the governess , the bill ...
these petty flame have burn I , and I be unable to bear it .
at dinner ... yesterday , I very nearly leave the table .
I could not bear the way my son look at I .
he do not ask I the meaning of it all , but he want to ask , and I could not endure his look .
he be afraid of look at I . but this be not all ... '
Karenin be go to mention the bill that have be bring he , but his voice shake and he pause .
he could not think of that bill , make out on blue paper for a bonnet and ribbon , without pity himself .
' I understand , dear friend , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanova .
' I understand it all . not in I will you find help and consolation , though I have come to help you if I can .
if I could take all those trivial humiliating care off your shoulder ? ...
I see that a woman 's word , a woman 's direction , be want .
will you entrust it to I ? '
Karenin silently and gratefully press her hand .
' we will look after Serezha together .
I be not good in practical matter , still I will undertake it – I will be your housekeeper .
do not thank I .
I be not do it of myself ... '
' I can not help thank you . '
' but , my dear friend , do not give way to that feel you be speak about – of be ashamed of that which be the utmost height of Christianity !
" he that humbleth himself shall be exalt , " and you must not thank I ! – you must thank he , and ask he for help .
in he alone you will find peace , comfort , salvation , and love ! ' and raise her eye to Heaven she begin to pray , as Karenin understand from her silence .
Karenin listen to she now , and those very expression , which formerly have seem to he if not disagreeable at least superfluous , now seem natural and comforting .
he do not like that new ecstatic influence .
he be a believer , interested in religion chiefly from a political point of view , and this new teaching which allow itself some novel interpretation , just because it pave the way for dispute and analysis , be repugnant to he on principle .
he have formerly regard the new teaching with coldness and even hostility , and have never discuss it with the Countess Lydia Ivanovna ( who be carry away by it ) , but have carefully and silently evade her challenge .
now for the first time he listen to her word with pleasure and without mental rejoinder .
' I be very , very grateful to you , both for your action and your word , ' say he when she have finish pray .
the Countess Lydia Ivanovna once more press both the hand of her friend .
' now I be go to act , ' she say , smile and wipe the trace of tear from her face . ' I be go to see Serezha .
only in extreme case will I apply to you , ' and she rise and go out .
the Countess go to Serezha 's part of the house and there , water the frightened boy 's cheek with her tear , tell he that his father be a saint and that his mother be dead .
the Countess keep her word .
she really take upon herself the care of arrange and manage Karenin 's household , but she have not exaggerate when she say she be not good at practical matter .
none of her direction could be carry out without alteration , and the alteration be make by Karenin 's valet , Korney , who now imperceptibly direct the whole household . quietly and tactfully , while help his master dress , he would inform he of anything that be necessary .
but nevertheless Lydia Ivanovna 's help be in the high degree effective , for it give Karenin the moral support of the consciousness of her affection and respect , and especially of the fact that she have nearly convert he to Christianity ( as it console she to believe ) ; that be to say , she have change he from an apathetic , indolent believer into a fervent and firm adherent of that new interpretation of the christian teaching which have lately spread in Petersburg .
for Karenin it be easy to accept that interpretation .
like Lydia Ivanovna and other who share these view , Karenin be quite devoid of that deep imaginative faculty of the soul by which idea arouse by the imagination become so vivid that they must be bring into conformity with other idea and with reality .
he see nothing impossible or incongruous in the notion that death which exist for the unbeliever do not exist for he , and that as he possess complete faith – of the measure of which he himself be the judge – there be no long any sin in his soul , and he already experience complete salvation here on earth .
it be true that the frivolity and falseness of this view of his faith be vaguely feel by Karenin . he know that when , without think that his forgiveness be the act of a Higher Power , he have surrender to his faith , he have experience more joy than when , as now , he be perpetually think that Christ live in his soul , and that while sign document he be fulfil his will . but it be absolutely necessary for Karenin to think thus ; it be so necessary for he in his humiliation to possess at least this imaginary exaltation , from the height of which he , the despise of all , be able to despise other , that he cling to this mock salvation as if it be the real thing .
chapter XXIII
the COUNTESS LYDIA IVANOVNA when quite a young and ecstatic girl be married to a rich , aristocratic , very good - natured , and most jovial profligate .
about two month after their marriage her husband leave she , and only answer her ecstatic assurance of tenderness with ridicule and even with animosity – which those who know the Count 's good - nature , and who see no fault in the ecstatic Lydia , be quite unable to explain .
since then , though not divorce , they live apart ; and when the husband do meet his wife he always treat she with an unchanging venomous irony which seem inexplicable .
the Countess Lydia have long ago cease to be in love with her husband , but since then have never cease to be in love with somebody else .
she be in love with several person at once , both man and woman ; she have be in love with almost every one who be specially notable .
she be in love with all the new Princes and Princesses who become connect with the imperial family , she be in love with a Metropolitan , a Suffragan , and a priest .
she have be in love with a journalist , three Slavs , Komisarov , [ a man who save the life of Alexander II . by knock the pistol from the hand of a would - be assassin . ] one of the Ministers , a doctor , an english missionary , and now with Karenin .
all these passion , ever wax or wane , do not interfere with she carry on very widespread and complicated relation with the Court and Society .
but from the time she take Karenin under her special protection after his misfortune – from the time she exert herself in his house , labour for his welfare – she feel that all her other passion be unreal and that she now truly love only Karenin .
the feeling she now have for he seem to her strong than any of her former sentiment .
analyse that feeling , and compare it with her previous love , she see clearly that she would not have be in love with Komisarov have he not save the Tsar 's life , nor with Ristich - Kudzhitsky but for the slavonic question ; but that she love Karenin for himself , for his lofty , misunderstood soul , for the high - pitch tone of his voice with the long - draw inflection which she think charming , for his weary eye , for his character , and for his soft hand with their swollen vein .
she be not only glad to meet he , but search his face for sign of the impression she create on he .
she wish to please he not merely by word , but by her whole self .
for his sake she now pay more attention to her dress than ever before .
she catch herself meditate on what might have be have she not marry and have he be free .
she blush with excitement when he enter the room , and could not repress a smile of delight when he say something agreeable to she .
for some day the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have be greatly excited .
she have hear that Anna and Vronsky be in Petersburg .
it be necessary to save Karenin from meet she , necessary even to save he from the painful knowledge that that dreadful woman be in the same town with he , and that he might come across she at any moment .
Lydia Ivanovna find out through acquaintance what ' those disgusting people , ' as she call Anna and Vronsky , intend to do , and try so to direct her friend 's step during those day that he should not meet they .
a young adjutant , a comrade of Vronsky 's , through whom she have her information , who hope through her influence to obtain a concession , tell she that they have finish their affair and be leave Petersburg next day .
Lydia Ivanovna be begin to breathe freely again , when next morning she receive a note and with horror recognize the handwriting .
it be Anna Karenina 's .
the envelope be as thick as parchment ; there be a large monogram on the narrow yellow sheet , and the letter have a delicious perfume .
' who bring it ? '
' a commissionaire from the hotel . '
it be some time before the Countess Lydia Ivanovna could sit down to read the letter .
her agitation bring on a fit of asthma , to which she be subject .
when she grow calm , she read the following , write in French :
' madanie LA COMTESSE ! – the christian feeling which fill your heart encourage I to what I feel to be the unpardonable boldness of writing to you .
I be unhappy at be part from my son .
I entreat you to permit I to see he once before my departure .
forgive I for remind you of myself .
I address myself to you , instead of to Alexis Alexandrovich , only because I do not wish to give pain to that high - minded man by remind he of myself .
know your friendship for he , I feel that you will understand I .
will you send Serezha to I , or shall I come to the house at an appoint time , or will you let I know when and where I can meet he away from home ?
I do not anticipate a refusal , know the magnanimity of the person on whom the decision depend .
you can not imagine the yearning I have to see he , and therefore can not imagine the gratitude which your help will awaken in I . –
ANNA
everything in that letter irritate the Countess Lydia Ivanovna : its matter , the hint contain in the word ' magnanimity , ' and especially what seem to she its free and easy tone .
' say there will be no answer , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , and at once open her blotter and write to Karenin that she hope to meet he about one o'clock at the Palace , at the Birthday Reception .
' I must talk over an important and sad matter with you , and we can arrange where .
good of all at my house , where I will have your special tea ready .
it be necessary .
he send a cross , but he also send strength to bear it , ' she add , to prepare he somewhat .
the Countess Lydia Ivanovna generally write two or three note a day to Karenin .
she like that way of communicate with he , which have an elegance and secrecy absent in their personal interview .
chapter XXIV
the congratulation at the PALACE be OVER .
meet as they be go out , acquaintance chat about the late news , the newly award honour , and the change among the high official .
' how would it do to appoint Countess Mary Borisovna , Minister of War ? and Princess Vatkovskaya , Chief of the Staff ? ' say a grey - haired old man in a gold - embroider uniform to a tall and beautiful Maid of Honour , in answer to her question about the promotion
' and I , aide - de - camp , ' reply the Maid of Honour with a smile .
' your post be already assign to you : in the ecclesiastical department with Karenin as your assistant . '
' how do you do , Prince ? ' add the old man , shake hand with some one who have just come up .
' what be you say about Karenin ? ' inquire the Prince .
' he and Putyatov have receive the order of Alexander Nevsky . '
' I think he have it already . '
' no .
just look at he , ' say the old man , point with his gold - trim hat to Karenin who , in Court uniform , with a new red ribbon round his shoulder , stand in the doorway with an important member of the State Council . ' as happy and content as a brass farthing , ' he add , pause to shake hand with an athletic , handsome chamberlain .
' no , he have age , ' say the chamberlain .
' from hard work .
he be always write project now .
he will not release that unfortunate fellow until he have expound everything , point by point . '
' aged indeed !
Il fait des passion !
[ he have love affair ] I think that now the Countess Lydia Ivanovna be jealous of his wife . '
' oh , come !
please do not say anything bad about the Countess . '
' but be it bad that she be in love with Karenin ? '
' and be it true that his wife be here ? '
' of course not here in the Palace , but she be in Petersburg .
I meet she and Alexis Vronsky walk arm in arm on the Morskaya . '
' C'est un homme qui n'a pas ... ' [ that be a man who have not ... ] begin the chamberlain , but stop short to make way for and to bow to a member of the imperial family who pass by .
in this way they chatter unceasingly about Karenin , blame he and laugh at he , while he , bar the way to the member of the State Council whom he have buttonhole , and not pause for a moment for fear he might slip away , expound point by point some financial project of his .
almost at the same time that his wife have leave Karenin , the most painful thing that can befall an official – the cessation of his ascent in the Service – have befall he .
that cessation be an accomplished fact , clearly visible to every one , though Karenin himself have not yet realize that his career be at an end .
whether it be his conflict with Stremov or the misfortune with his wife , or simply that he have reach his predestine limit – at any rate it have that year become obvious to every one that his career be over .
he still hold an important post , be member of many Commissions and Committees , but he be finish , and from he nothing far be to be look for .
whatever he might say , whatever he might propose , he be listen to as if all he be propose have long be know and be what no one want .
but Karenin be not sensible of this : on the contrary , be now outside Government work , he see more clearly than ever the defect and mistake make by other , and consider it his duty to point out how those mistake might be rectify .
soon after the parting with his wife he begin write a pamphlet on the new legal procedure , the first of an innumerable series of unwanted pamphlet on every administrative department which it be his fate to write .
but Karenin , far from notice the hopelessness of his position in officialdom and be trouble by it , be more satisfied with his work than ever .
' he that be marry careth for the thing that be of the world , how he may please his wife ... but he that be unmarried careth for the thing that belong to the Lord and how to please the Lord , ' say the Apostle Paul ; and Karenin , who be now guide in all his action by the scripture , often recall that text .
he think that since he have be without a wife he have serve the Lord by mean of these very project more than before .
the evident impatience of the Member of the Council do not trouble Karenin , who leave off expound his project only when the Councillor , profit by a royal personage 's passing , slip away .
leave alone , Karenin bow his head , collect his thought ; and then turn absent - mindedly toward the door where he hope to meet the Countess Lydia Ivanovna .
' how strong and healthy they all be physically , ' he think , glance at the powerfully - build chamberlain with his well - brush and perfumed whisker , and at the red neck of a Prince in a tightly - fit uniform , whom he have to pass on his way . ' it be truly say that everything in the world be sin , ' he think , again glance out of the corner of his eye at the chamberlain 's calf .
move his foot deliberately , Karenin , with his usual air of weariness and dignity , bow to those gentleman who be talk about he , and his eye search through the doorway for the Countess .
' ah , Alexis Alexandrovich ! ' cry the old man with a malevolent gleam in his eye as Karenin pass he bow coldly . ' I have not yet congratulate you , ' he go on , point to Karenin 's newly - award ribbon .
' thank you , ' reply Karenin . ' what a beautiful day it be , ' he add , lay , as be his will not , peculiar stress on the word ' beautiful . '
he know that they be laugh at he , but he no long look for anything except hostility from they ; he be already accustomed to it .
having catch sight , just as she enter , of the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's yellow shoulder emerge from her corset , and of her beautiful dreamy eye summon he , Karenin smile , reveal his white impeccable tooth , and go up to she .
Lydia Ivanovna 's dress have cost she a great deal of trouble , as be the case with all her attire of late .
her purpose in dressing be now quite the reverse of what she have have in view thirty year ago .
then she have wish to adorn herself somehow , the more the well ; now , on the contrary , she be oblige to be adorn so unsuitably to her age and figure , that she be only concerned that the incongruity between these adornment and her own appearance should not be too dreadful .
as far as Karenin be concern she attain her object , and to he she seem attractive .
in his eye she be the only islet , not of kindly feel only but of affection , in the ocean of hostility and ridicule which surround he .
as he now run the gauntlet of those mock eye he be draw toward her enamoured look as naturally as a plant be draw toward the sun .
' I congratulate you , ' she say , indicate the ribbon by a look .
repress a smile of pleasure , he shrug his shoulder and close his eye , as if to say that it could not give he pleasure .
the Countess Lydia Ivanovna know very well that it be one of his great pleasure , though he would never confess it .
' how be our angel ? ' ask she , mean Serezha .
' I can not say I be quite satisfied with he , ' reply Karenin , raise his eyebrow and open his eye . ' and Sitnikov too be dissatisfied with he . '
Sitnikov be the tutor to whom Serezha 's secular education be entrust .
' as I tell you , he show a certain coldness toward those most important question which should stir the soul of every man and child , ' he go on , speak on the only subject which interest he outside the Service – the education of his son .
when with Lydia Ivanovna 's help he have return to life and activity , he have feel it his duty to take his son 's education in hand .
never having occupy himself with educational matter before , he devote some time to study the matter theoretically .
after read several book on anthropology , pedagogic , and didactic , he form a plan of education , and having engage the good Petersburg educationalist for supervision , he set to work .
and this undertaking occupy he continually .
' yes , but his heart !
I see in he his father 's heart , and with such a heart a child can not be bad ! ' say Lydia Ivanovna , enthusiastically .
' perhaps .
well , as far as I be concerned I do my duty , which be all I can do . '
' will you come and see I ? ' say the Countess after a pause . ' we must talk over something painful to you .
I would have give anything to save you from certain memory , but other people think differently .
I have a letter from she .
she be here in Petersburg . '
Karenin start at the reference to his wife , but immediately his face assume a death - like immobility which show utter helplessness in the matter .
' I expect it , ' he say .
the Countess Lydia Ivanovna look at he ecstatically , and her eye fill with tear of rapturous admiration at the loftiness of his soul .
chapter XXV
when KARENIN enter the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's snug little boudoir , which be full of old china and have its wall cover with portrait ; the hostess be not yet there .
she be change her dress .
upon a round table cover with a cloth stand a chinese tea service and a silver kettle over a spirit lamp .
Karenin glance absent - mindedly at the numberless familiar portrait decorate the boudoir , and sit down by the table open a New Testament that be on it .
the rustle of the Countess 's silk dress rouse he .
' well , now we can sit down quietly , ' say she with an agitated smile , as she squeeze herself in between the table and sofa , ' and have a chat over our tea . '
after a few word of preparation the Countess , breathe heavily and blushing , hand he the letter she have receive .
when he have read the letter Karenin be silent for a long time .
' I do not consider that I have a right to refuse , ' he say timidly , raise his eye .
' my dear friend , you see no evil in anyone ! '
' on the contrary , I see that everything be evil .
but be it right ... '
his face express uncertainty and a desire for advice , support , and guidance in a matter he do not understand .
' no , ' she interrupt he , ' there be limit to everything !
I understand immorality , ' she say , not quite sincerely , for she never could have understand that which lead woman to immorality , ' but I do not understand cruelty ... and to whom ? to you !
how can she stay in the town you be in ?
but it be quite true , " live and learn " !
and I be learn to understand your loftiness and her baseness . '
' but who will throw the stone ? ' say he , evidently pleased with his role . ' I have quite forgive she ; and therefore can not refuse she what her love for her son demand . '
' but be it love , dear friend ?
be it sincere ?
grant that you have forgive she , and do forgive she ; but have we the right to act thus toward the soul of that angel ?
he think she be dead .
he pray for she and ask God to forgive she her sin , and it be well so .
but this ... what will he think ? '
' I have not think of that , ' say Karenin , evidently agree with she .
the Countess cover her face with her hand and remain silent .
she be pray .
' if you ask my advice , ' she say , when her prayer be end and she uncover her face , ' I do not advise you to do it !
do I not see how you be suffer , how this have reopen all your wound !
of course as usual you be not think of yourself .
but what can it lead to ?
renew pain for yourself , and pain for the child !
if there be anything human leave in she , she herself should not desire it .
no , I advise you unhesitatingly not to allow it , and with your permission I will write to she . '
Karenin agree , and the Countess Lydia Ivanovna write in French as follow :
' MADAME !
to remind your son of you might lead to his ask question which it would be impossible to answer without implant in his soul a spirit of condemnation for what should be holy to he , and therefore I beg you to take your husband 's refusal in the spirit of christian love .
I pray the Almighty to be merciful to you . –
COUNTESS LYDIA
this letter achieve the secret purpose which the Countess Lydia Ivanovna hide even from herself .
it wound Anna to the depth of her soul .
Karenin too , on return home from Lydia Ivanovna 's , could not give his attention to his usual occupation nor find that spiritual peace of a believer who have find salvation , which he have feel before .
the memory of his wife who be so guilty toward he , and toward whom he be so saintly , as the Countess Lydia Ivanovna have justly tell he , should not have upset he ; but he be not at ease : he could not understand the book he be read , could not drive away torment memory of his relation with she , and of the mistake which , as it now appear to he , he have commit in regard to she .
the memory of the manner in which , when return from the race , he have receive her confession of unfaithfulness ( especially the fact that he have demand of her only external propriety and have not challenge Vronsky ) torment he like remorse .
the memory of the letter he have write to she also torment he ; above all his forgiveness , which no one want , and his care for another man 's child , burn his heart with shame and regret .
he now feel a similar sense of shame and remorse when think of his whole past with she , and recall the awkward word in which , after much hesitation , he have propose to she .
' but wherein be I to blame ? ' he ask himself , and as usual that question suggest another : do those other – those Vronskys and Oblonskys and those fat - calved chamberlain – feel differently , love differently , marry differently ?
and there rise before his mind 's eye a whole row of those vigorous , strong , self - assure man , who have always involuntarily attract his curiosity and attention .
he drive these thought from he , and try to convince himself that he be not live for the present temporal life but for eternal life , and that his soul be full of peace and love .
but the fact that in this temporary insignificant life he have commit , as it seem to he , some trivial error , torment he as much as if the eternal salvation in which he believe do not exist .
but this temptation do not last long and soon that tranquil elevation , thank to which he could forget the thing he do not wish to remember , be re - establish in his soul .
chapter XXVI
SAID SEREZHA , as on the day before his birthday he return rosy and bright from a walk , and give his overcoat to the tall old hall - porter , who look smilingly down from his height at the little fellow . ' well , have the bandaged official be to - day ?
have Papa see he ? '
' he have see he .
as soon as the secretary leave , I announce he , ' answer the hall - porter with a wink . ' let I take it off for you . '
' Serezha ! ' say his tutor , a slav , stop in the doorway that lead to the inner room , ' take it off yourself . '
but Serezha , though he hear his tutor 's weak voice , pay no heed to it .
he stand hold on by the porter 's shoulder - strap and look into his face .
' well , and have Papa do what he want ? '
the hall - porter nod affirmatively .
the bandaged official , who have call seven time to petition Karenin about something , interest both Serezha and the hall - porter .
Serezha have meet he in the hall , and have hear he piteously beg the porter to announce he to Karenin , and say that he and his child be face to face with death .
since then , having again meet the official in the hall , Serezha have become interested in he .
' and be he very glad ? ' he ask .
' how could he help be glad ?
he nearly jump for joy as he go away . '
' and have anything be bring ? ' inquire Serezha , after a pause .
' well , sir , ' say the porter , shake his head and whispering , ' there be something from the Countess . '
Serezha know at once that the hall - porter be speak of a birthday present for he from the Countess Lydia Ivanovna .
' you do not say so ?
where be it ? '
' Korney have take it in to your Papa .
I should think it be a fine thing . '
' what size ?
about so big ? '
' not quite , but a fine thing . '
' a book ? '
' no , just a thing .
go , go ! vasily Lukich be call you , ' say the hall - porter , hear the approach step of the tutor , and gently disengage the little hand in the half - draw - off glove which hold he by his shoulder - strap , as he nod and wink toward the tutor .
' Vasily Lukich , one moment ! ' say Serezha with that bright and affectionate smile which always overcome the conscientious Vasily Lukich .
Serezha be in too high spirit , too happy not to share with his friend the hall - porter another family joy about which he have hear from Lydia Ivanovna 's niece whom he meet walk in the Summer Gardens .
this joy appear to he particularly important because it coincide with the satisfaction of the official , and his own happiness that a present have be bring .
to serezha it seem that this day be one on which everybody ought to be happy and gay .
' do you know , Papa have receive the order of Alexander Nevsky ? '
' of course I do !
People have already be call to congratulate he . '
' well , and be he pleased ? '
' how can he help be pleased at the Tsar 's favour ?
it show he be deserve it , ' reply the hall - porter sternly and seriously .
Serezha grow thoughtful as he peer into the hall - porter 's face , which he have study in minute detail – especially the chin which hang beneath the grey whisker and which no one see but Serezha , who always look up at he .
' and your daughter , have she be here lately ? '
the hall - porter 's daughter be a ballet - dancer .
' how can she come on week - day ?
they have to learn too , and so must you , sir ! go along ! '
on enter the schoolroom , instead of sit down to his lesson , Serezha tell his tutor of his guess that the parcel that have be bring must be a railway train . ' what do you think ? ' he ask .
but Vasily Lukich only think that Serezha must prepare his grammar lesson , as his teacher be come at two .
' oh , but just tell I , Vasily Lukich ! ' say Serezha , suddenly , after sit down at the table with a book in his hand . ' what be high than the Alexander Nevsky ?
you know Papa have receive the order of Alexander Nevsky ? '
Vasily Lukich reply that the Order of Vladimir be high .
' and high still ? '
' the high be the St Andrew . '
' and high still ? '
' I do not know . '
' even you do not know ! ' and Serezha , lean his elbow on the table , begin to reflect .
his reflection be most complex and varied .
he imagine his father suddenly receive the Orders of Vladimir and Saint Andrew , and how much kind in consequence he would be to - day at lesson - time , and how he himself when he grow up would receive all the order , and that they would invent one high than the Saint Andrew .
as soon as it be invent he would gain it .
a yet high one would be invent , and he would immediately get that one too .
in these reflection time pass until the teacher arrive . the lesson on the attribute of Time , Place , and Manner of Action have not be learn .
the teacher be not only dissatisfied but also sadden . his sadness touch Serezha .
he do not feel guilty for not having learn his lesson , for try as he would he positively could not do it . while the teacher be explain , he believe he and seem to understand , but as soon as he be leave alone he positively could not remember or understand how so short and simple a word as suddenly could be an attribute of the manner of action ; but all the same he be sorry he have grieve his teacher .
he choose a moment when the teacher be look silently into the book :
' Michael Ivanovich , when be your birthday ? ' he suddenly ask .
' you would do well to think of your work . birthday do not signify anything to reasonable being .
it be just a day like any other , on which we must work . '
Serezha look attentively at his teacher , at his thin little beard and his spectacle which have slip down the bridge of his nose , and become so engrossed in thought that he no long hear what his teacher be explain .
he be aware that the teacher himself do not believe what he be say ; he feel that by the tone in which the word be utter .
' but why have they all agree to speak in the same way about the dull and most useless thing ?
why do he repulse I ? why do he not love I ? ' he ask himself sadly , and could find no answer .
chapter XXVII
after the teacher 's LESSON Serezha have a lesson from his father .
before his father come Serezha sit at the table play with a pocket - knife and thinking .
among his favourite occupation be keep a look out for his mother when he go out walk .
he do not believe in death in general , and especially not in her death , despite what Lydia Ivanovna have tell he and his father have confirm , and therefore even after he have be tell she be dead , he go on look for she when on his walk .
he imagine that every well - develop and graceful woman with dark hair be his mother .
at the sight of any such woman a feeling of such tenderness awake in his heart that he grow breathless and tear come to his eye .
he expect that at any moment she would approach and lift her veil .
then he would see her whole face , she would smile , embrace he , and he would smell her peculiar scent , feel the tenderness of her touch , and cry with joy as he have do one evening when he lie at her foot and she tickle he , while he shake with laughter and bit her white hand with the ring on the finger .
later on , when he accidentally hear from his nurse that she be not dead , and his father and Lydia Ivanovna explain that to he she be dead because she be bad ( which he could not at all believe , for he love she ) , he continue to look out for and wait for she .
there have be a lady with a purple veil in the Summer Garden to - day whom he have watch with a sink heart as she come toward he along the path .
the lady do not come up to they and disappear somewhere .
to - day Serezha be more than ever conscious of a flow of love for his mother in his heart , and now as he sat lose in thought , wait for his father , he notch the whole edge of the table with his knife , look before he with shine eye and think about she .
Vasily Lukich rouse he . ' your Papa be come ! '
Serezha jump up , approach his father , kiss his hand , and look at he attentively , try to find some sign of his joy at receive the order of Alexander Nevsky .
' have you have a nice walk ? ' ask Karenin , as he sit down in his arm - chair , draw toward he an Old Testament and open it .
although Karenin have more than once tell Serezha that every Christian ought to be well acquaint with Bible history , he often in Old Testament history have to consult the book , and Serezha notice this .
' yes , Papa , it be very amusing , ' answer Serezha , sit down sideways on his chair and begin to rock it , which be forbid . ' I meet Nadenka ' ( Nadenka be Lydia Ivanovna 's niece , who be be educate at her aunt 's house ) .
' she tell I you have receive another order , a new one .
be you glad , Papa ? '
' first of all , do not rock your chair , ' say Karenin . ' secondly , it be not the reward but the work that be precious .
I wish you understand that .
you see , if you take pain and learn in order to get a reward , the work will seem hard ; but when you work ' ( Karenin say this remember how he have sustain himself that morning by a sense of duty in the dull task of sign a hundred and eighteen paper ) – ' if you love your work , you will find your reward in that . '
Serezha 's eye , that have be shine with affection and joy , grow dull and droop under his father 's gaze .
it be the same long - familiar tone in which his father always address he , and to which Serezha have already learn to adapt himself .
his father always talk to he , Serezha feel , as if he be some imaginary boy out of a book , quite unlike Serezha ; and with his father he always try to pretend to be that boy out of a book .
' you understand I , I hope , ' say the father .
' yes , Papa , ' answer the boy , pretend to be that imaginary boy .
the lesson consist in learn by heart some verse from the Gospels and repeat the beginning of the Old Testament .
Serezha know the Gospel verse pretty well , but whilst say they he become so absorbed in the contemplation of a bone in his father 's forehead , which turn very sharply above the temple , that he become confused and put the end of one verse where the same word occur after the beginning of another .
it be evident to Karenin that the boy do not understand what he be say , and this irritate he .
he frown and begin an explanation that Serezha have hear many time already and could never remember because he understand it too clearly , just as he could not remember that the word suddenly be an attribute of the manner of action .
Serezha look at his father with scared eye , and could only think of whether his father would make he repeat what he have just say , as he sometimes do .
this thought frighten he so much that he no long understand anything at all .
however , his father do not make he repeat it , but go on to the lesson from the Old Testament .
Serezha relate the event themselves quite well , but when he have to answer question as to what some of the event symbolize , he know nothing about it , though he have be punish before for not know this lesson .
the part , however , about which he could not say anything at all but only flounder , cut the table , and rock his chair , be that about the antediluvian patriarch .
he do not know any of they except Enoch , who be take up to Heaven alive .
previously he have remember the other ' name , but now he have quite forget they , chiefly because Enoch be his favourite in the whole Old Testament , and attach to Enoch 's be take up to Heaven there be a long string of thought in his head , which now occupy his mind while he look fixedly at his father 's watch - chain and at a half - unfastened button of his waistcoat .
he do not in the least believe in death , which be so often mention to he .
he do not believe that people he love could die , nor above all that he himself would die .
that seem to he quite impossible and incomprehensible .
but he be tell that everybody would die ; he have even ask people whom he trust and they all confirm it ; his nurse too say so , though reluctantly .
but Enoch have not die , so not everybody die , ' and why should not anybody deserve the same in God 's sight , and be take up to Heaven alive ? ' think Serezha .
bad people , that be to say those he do not like , might die ; but the good one might all be like Enoch .
' well , who be the patriarch ? '
' Enoch , Enos ... '
' but you have already mention they .
this be bad , Serezha , very bad !
if you do not take pain to know what be most necessary for a Christian , then what can interest you ?
I be displeased with you , and Peter Ignatych ' – this be the chief educationalist – ' be also displeased with you ...
I shall have to punish you . '
his father and the educationalist be both displeased with Serezha , and he really learn badly .
yet it could not at all be say that he be an incapable boy .
on the contrary he be far more capable than the boy whom the educationalist set before he as model .
his father from his point of view consider that the boy do not try to learn what he be be teach .
as a matter of fact , he could not learn it .
he could not , because there be more urgent demand on his soul than those put forward by his father and the educationalist .
the two kind of demand be oppose , and he be in direct conflict with his instructor .
he be nine year old and quite a child , but he know his soul , it be dear to he , and he guard it as the eyelid guard the eye , and never let anyone enter his heart without the key of love .
his instructor complain that he would not learn , yet his soul be overflow with longing for knowledge .
so he learn , from Kapitonich , from his nurse , from Nadenka , and from Vasily Lukich , but not from his teacher .
the water which his father and the educationalist expect would turn their mill - wheel have long since leak out and be work somewhere else .
his father punish Serezha by not let he go to see Lydia Ivanovna 's niece Nadenka , but this punishment turn out luckily for Serezha .
Vasily Lukich be in good spirit and show he how to make windmill .
he spend all the evening work , and dream how a windmill could be make on which one could ride , either by seize one of the sail or by tie oneself to it and spin round .
he do not think about his mother all the evening ; but when in bed he suddenly remember she , and pray in his own word that tomorrow , on his birthday , she should stop hide herself and should come to he .
' Vasily Lukich ! do you know for what I have be pray extra ? '
' to learn well ? '
' no . '
' for toy ? '
you will never guess !
it be lovely , but a secret !
when it come true , I will tell you .
you have not guess . '
' no , I can not guess .
you would well tell I , ' say Vasily Lukich , smile , which he rarely do . ' well , lie down , and I will put out the candle . '
' but I can see well without a candle what I have be pray for !
there , I nearly tell you the secret ! ' say Serezha with a merry laugh .
when the candle have be take away he hear and feel his mother .
she stand above he and caress he with a love look .
but then windmill appear , and a knife , and all become confused , and he fall asleep .
chapter XXVIII
when VRONSKY and ANNA REACHED petersburg they put up at one of the good hotel : Vronsky separately on the first floor , and Anna with the baby , the nurse , and a maid , upstairs in a large suite consist of four room .
on the day they arrive Vronsky go to see his brother .
there he meet his mother , who have come from Moscow on business .
his mother and his sister - in - law receive he just as usual , ask he about his trip abroad and speak of mutual acquaintance , but do not say a single word about his union with Anna .
his brother , however , having come to see he next morning , ask about she , and Alexis Vronsky tell he frankly that he regard his union with she as a marriage , that he hope to arrange a divorce for she , and would then marry she , and that meanwhile he consider she his wife , just like any other wife , and he ask his brother to say so to their mother and to his own wife .
' if the world do not approve of it , I do not care , ' say Vronsky , ' but if my relative wish to treat I as a relation , they must adopt a similar attitude toward my wife . '
the eld brother , who have always respect his young brother 's opinion , be not sure whether he be right or wrong , until the world have decide the point ; but for his own part he have nothing against it and go up with Alexis to see Anna .
in his brother 's presence Vronsky speak to Anna merely as to a close acquaintance , as he always do in the presence of a third party ; but it be assume that his brother know of their relation , and they speak of Anna 's go to Vronsky 's estate .
despite all his experience of the world , Vronsky , in the new position in which he find himself , be make a terrible mistake .
he might have be expect to understand that Society be close to he and Anna ; but some sort of vague notion get into his head that though it use to be so in olden time , yet now , when there be so much progress ( without notice it , he have become an advocate of every kind of progress ) , public opinion have change and it be possible that they would be receive in Society .
' of course they will not receive she at Court , but intimate friend can and should see thing the right way , ' he think .
it be possible to sit for some hour with one 's leg double up without change one 's position if one know there be nothing to prevent one 's do so , but if a man know that he must sit with his leg double up he will get cramp , and his leg will begin to jerk and strain in the direction in which he would like to stretch they .
this be what Vronsky experience with regard to Society .
though in the depth of his soul he know that Society be close to they , he try whether it would not change and whether it would not receive they .
but he very soon notice that though the great world be open to he personally , it be close to Anna .
as in the game of cat and mouse , the arm that be raise to allow he to get inside the circle be at once lower to prevent Anna from enter .
one of the first Petersburg Society lady he meet be his cousin Betsy .
' at last ! ' she exclaim joyfully when they meet . ' and Anna ?
I be so glad !
where be you stay ?
I can imagine how dreadful our Petersburg must appear to you after your delightful journey ; I can picture to myself your honeymoon in Rome .
and the divorce ?
be it all arrange ? '
he notice that Betsy 's delight cool down when she learn that Anna have not yet be divorce .
' they will throw stone at I , I know , ' she say , ' but I shall come and see Anna . yes , I will certainly come .
you be not stay here long ? '
and really she come to see Anna that same day ; but her manner be very different from what it have formerly be .
she be evidently proud of her boldness and wish Anna to appreciate the fidelity of her friendship .
she do not stay more than ten minute , chatter Society gossip , and as she be leave say :
' you have not tell I when you will be divorce ?
of course I have kick over the trace , but other , straight - lace people , will give you the cold shoulder until you get marry .
and it be so simple nowadays !
Ça se fait .
[ it be a thing that be do . ]
so you be leave on Friday ? I be sorry we sha not see one another again ! '
from Betsy 's tone Vronsky might have realize what he have to expect from Society , but he make another attempt with his relation .
of his mother he have no hope .
he know that his mother , who have be so delighted with Anna when she first make her acquaintance , be now merciless toward she for having cause the ruin of her son 's career .
but he place great hope on Varya , his brother 's wife .
she , he think , would cast no stone , but would simply and resolutely go and see Anna and receive she at her own house .
the day after his arrival Vronsky call on she , and having find she alone , express his wish .
' you know how fond I be of you , Alexis , ' she reply when she have hear he out , ' and how ready I be to do anything for you ; but I have keep silent because I know I could be of no use to you and Anna Arkadyevna . ' she pronounce the formal ' Anna Arkadyevna ' with peculiar precision .
' please do not think I be condemn you . not at all !
perhaps in her place I should have do the same . I do not and can not enter into detail , ' she add , look timidly into his gloomy face .
' but we must call thing by their real name . you wish I to go and see she and to receive she , and so rehabilitate she in Society ; but please understand that I can not do it !
I have daughter grow up , and I must move in Society , for my husband 's sake .
suppose I go to see Anna Arkadyevna ; she will understand that I can not ask she to my house , or must do it in such a way that she do not meet those who see thing differently . that would offend she .
I be not able to raise she ... '
' but I do not consider that she have fall low than hundred of people whom you do receive ! ' say Vronsky still more gloomily , and rise in silence , having understand that his sister - in - law 's determination be final .
' Alexis , do not be angry with I !
please understand that it be not my fault , ' say Varya , look at he with a timid smile .
' I be not angry with you , ' he say just as gloomily , ' but I be doubly pained .
I be pain too because this break our friendship .
no , not break it , but weaken it .
you understand that for I too there can be no other course ' . '
with those word he leave she .
Vronsky understand that it be vain to make any further attempt and that they would have to spend those few day in Petersburg as in a strange town , avoid contact with their former world in order not to lay themselves open to unpleasantness and insult which be so painful to he .
one of the most disagreeable feature of his position in Petersburg be that Karenin seem to be everywhere and his name in every mouth .
it be impossible to start any conversation without its turning upon Karenin , impossible to go anywhere without meet he .
so at least it seem to Vronsky , as a man with a sore finger feel that he be continually knock that finger against everything as if on purpose .
the stay in Petersburg seem to he still more try because he notice all the time in Anna a new and to he incomprehensible mood .
at one moment she appear to be in love with he , and at the next would turn cold , irritable , and impenetrable .
something torment she and she hide it from he , appear not to notice the insult that be poison his life , and which should have be still more painful to she with her acuteness of perception .
chapter xxix
one of ANNA 's reason for returning to RUSSIA be to see her son .
from the day she leave Italy the thought of that meeting do not cease to agitate she .
the near they come to Petersburg the great its joy and importance appear .
she do not ask herself how she should contrive it .
it seem to her natural and simple that she should see her son when she be in the same town with he . but on reach Petersburg her present social position present itself clearly to she , and she realize that it would be difficult to arrange the meeting .
she have be in Petersburg two day .
the thought of her son do not leave she for an instant , but she have not yet see he .
she feel she have not the right to go straight to the house where she might encounter Karenin .
possibly they might even not admit she .
it be painful to she even to think of write to and come into contact with her husband : she could be calm only when she do not think of he .
to meet her son when he be out for a walk , after find out when and where he go , be not enough : she have be prepare herself so for that meeting , have so much to say to he , and so much want to embrace and kiss he !
Serezha 's old nurse might have help and advise she , but she be no long in Karenin 's household .
in this uncertainty , and in search for the old nurse , two day have go by .
having hear about Karenin 's intimate friendship with the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , Anna on the third day resolve to write she a letter , which cost her much effort , and in which she intentionally mention that permission to see her son must depend on her husband 's magnanimity .
she know that if that letter be show to he he , continue his magnanimous role , would not refuse her request .
the commissionaire who deliver her letter bring back the most cruel and unexpected reply : that there would be no answer !
never have she feel so humiliated as when , having call in the commissionaire , she hear from he the full account of how he have wait and have then be tell that there would be no answer .
Anna feel herself humiliate and wound , but she see that the Countess Lydia Ivanovna be right from her own point of view .
her grief be the more poignant because she have to bear it alone .
she could not share it with Vronsky and do not wish to .
she know that , though he be the chief cause of her misery , the question of she see her son would seem to he quite unimportant .
she know he would never be able to appreciate the depth of her anguish , and that his coldness if the matter be mention would make she hate he .
and she fear that , more than anything else in the world , and therefore hide from he everything concern her son .
having spend all that day at the hotel consider how she might see her son , she resolve to write to her husband .
she have already compose the letter when she receive Lydia Ivanovna 's reply .
the Countess 's silence have make she feel humble , but the letter and what she read between its line so irritate she , its malevolence seem so revolting when compare with her passionate and legitimate love for her son , that she become indignant with other and cease to blame herself .
' that coldness , that pretence of feeling ! ' she say to herself . ' they want to wound I and torture the child , and shall I submit to they ?
not on any account !
she be bad than I. Anyhow , I do not lie ! '
and there and then she resolve that next day , Serezha 's birthday , she would go straight to her husband 's house and would bribe the servant or deceive they , but would at any cost see her son and destroy that monstrous falsehood with which they surround the unfortunate child .
she drive to a toy shop , purchase a lot of toy , and devise a plan of action .
she would go early in the morning , at about eight , when Karenin would certainly not be up .
she would have ready in her hand some money to give to the hall - porter and the footman , in order that they should let she in . without raise her veil she would say she have be send by Serezha 's godfather to wish he many happy return of the day and that she be to put the toy by his bedside .
the only thing she do not prepare be what she would say to her son .
much as she think about that she could not prepare the word .
next morning Anna go alone , and at eight o'clock get out of the hire carriage and ring the bell at the front door of the house which use to be her home .
' go and see what it be .
it be some lady , ' say Kapitonich , who be not yet dress , and in overcoat and goloshes peep from the window at the veil lady stand close to the door .
his assistant , a lad whom Anna do not know , have hardly open the door when she enter , and take a three - rouble note from her muff hastily thrust it into his hand .
' serezha ...
Sergey Alexeyich ! ' she say , and walk on .
after examine the note the porter 's assistant stop she at the inner glass door .
' whom do you want ? ' he ask .
she do not hear his word , and make no reply .
notice the stranger 's confusion , Kapitonich himself come out , admit she , and inquire what she want .
' I come from Prince Skorodumov to see Sergey Alexeyich , ' say she .
' he be not up yet , ' say the hall - porter , carefully scrutinize her face .
Anna have not foresee at all that the totally unaltered appearance of the hall of the house where she have live for nine year would so deeply affect she .
one memory after another , both joyful and painful , rise in her mind , and for a moment she forget why she have come .
' would you like to wait ? ' say Kapitonich , help she off with her cloak .
having do so he glance again at her face and , recognize she , silently bow low .
' come in , your Excellency , ' he say .
she wish to speak , but her voice refuse to utter a sound ; with a look of guilty entreaty at the old man she go with light step up the stair .
bend forward and catch the step with his golosh , Kapitonich run after she , try to overtake she .
' the tutor may be there and not yet dress .
I will announce you . '
Anna continue to ascend the familiar step without understand what the old man be say .
' this way , please ! to the left ! please excuse its not be quite clean . he have be move to the old sitting - room now , ' say the hall - porter , pant . ' allow I ! please wait a little , your Excellency . I will just look in , ' he say , having overtake she . he open a big door and vanish behind it . Anna pause and wait . ' he be only just wake up , ' say the porter when he come out again .
just as he speak Anna hear the sound of a child yawning ; she recognize her son by the sound of the yawn and picture he vividly before she .
' let I in , let I in ! ' she cry , and enter at the big door .
to the right of the door stand a bed on which sit the boy , his nightshirt unbutton , bend his little body backward , stretch himself and finish his yawn .
at the moment when his lip be close they extend into a blissful sleepy smile , and with that smile he again fall slowly and sweetly backwards .
' Serezha ! ' she whisper , draw near with inaudible step .
during the time they have be part and under the influence of that gush of love which she have feel for he of late she have always imagine he as a little fellow of four , the age when she have love he well .
now he be not even as she have leave he ; he be still far remove from the four - year - old child ; he have grow still more and have get thin .
what do it mean ?
how thin his face be ! how short his hair !
how long his arm !
how change since she have leave he !
but still it be he : the slope of the head be his , the lip be his , the soft neck and the broad shoulder .
' Serezha ! ' she repeat , just above the child 's ear .
he raise himself again on his elbow , move his tousled head from side to side as if seek for something , and open his eye .
silently and questioningly he gaze for a few moment at his mother , who stand motionless before he , then suddenly smile blissfully , he close his heavy eyelid and fall once more , not backward , but forwards into her arm .
' Serezha , my dear little boy ! ' she utter , catch her breath and embrace his plump little body .
' Mama ! ' he mutter , wriggle about in her arm so as to touch they with different part of his body .
sleepily smile with closed eye , he move his plump hand from the back of his bed to her shoulder , lean against she and envelop she in that sweet scent of sleepiness and warmth which only child possess , and begin rub himself against her neck and shoulder .
' I know ! ' he say , open his eye . ' to - day be my birthday .
I know you would come !
I will get up directly ... '
while say this he be again fall asleep .
Anna watch he with greedy eye . she notice how he have grow and change during her absence .
she recognize and yet do not quite recognize his bare leg , now so big ; which he have free from the blanket , and his cheek , now grow thin , and the short lock of hair at the back of his head where she have so often kiss he .
she touch it all , and could not speak : tear be choke she .
' what be you cry about , Mama ? ' he ask , now quite awake . ' mama , what be you cry about ? ' he exclaim in a fretful voice .
' I will not cry ...
I be cry for joy !
it be so long since I see you .
I will not , ' she say , swallow her tear and turn away . ' but it be time for you to get dress , ' she say after a pause when she have recover ; and without release his hand she sit down by his bed on a chair on which his clothe be lie ready .
' how do you dress without I ?
how do you ... ' she try to speak simply and cheerfully , but could not , and turn away again .
' I do not wash with cold water . Papa say I must not .
you have not see Vasily Lukich ?
he will come presently .
and you be sit on my clothe ! '
and Serezha burst out laugh . she look at he and smile .
' Mama ! Dearest , darling ! ' he shout , again throw himself upon she , and embrace she , as if he by now , having see her smile , clearly realize what have happen .
' you do not want that , ' he say , take off her bonnet and on see she without it , he begin kiss she again as though he have only just see she .
' well , and what do you think about I ?
you do not think I be dead ? '
' I never believe it ! '
' you do not believe it , my darling ? '
' I know ! I know ! ' he cry , repeat his favourite phrase , and seize her hand , which be caress his hair , he press her palm to his mouth , cover it with kiss .
chapter xxx
MEANWHILE VASILY LUKICH , who have not at first understand who the lady be , having realize from what he hear that she be the mother who have leave her husband and whom he , having come to the house only after she have leave it , have never see , hesitate whether to go in or not , or whether to tell Karenin .
having at last conclude that his duty be to get Serezha up at the appoint time , and that therefore he need not consider who be sit there – the boy 's mother or anyone else – but that he must do his duty , he dress , go up to the door , and open it .
but the caress of the mother and son , the sound of their voice and what they be say , make he change his mind .
he shake his head , sigh , and close the door again .
' I will be another ten minute , ' he say to himself , cough and wipe away his tear .
meanwhile among the servant there be great commotion .
they all know that the mistress have come , that Kapitonich have admit she , and that she be now in the nursery . but the master always go to the nursery before nine , and they all understand that a meeting between he and his wife be inconceivable and must be prevent .
Korney , the valet , go down into the hall - porter 's room to inquire who have let she in , and hear that it be Kapitonich who have do so , he reprimand the old man .
the hall - porter remain obstinately silent ; but when the valet say he ' ought to get the sack , ' Kapitonich rush at Korney and , flourish his hand about before Korney 's face , begin to speak out :
' yes , I daresay you would not have let she in !
I 've be in service here ten year , and have have nothing but kindness : you have well go up and tell she , " you be off , please ! "
you be an artful one , you be !
you would well look after yourself and how to fleece the master of fur coat ! '
' soldier ! ' say Korney , contemptuously , and turn to the nurse who have just enter . ' now , judge for yourself , Mary Efimovna , ' he say to she . ' he be let she in without tell anybody ; and Alexis Alexandrovich will be ready in a minute and will go to the nursery . '
' dear ! dear ! what a business ! ' say the nurse . ' you must detain he somehow , Korney Vasilich – the master , I mean ! and I will run and get she out of the way . what a business ! '
when the nurse enter , Serezha be just tell his mother how he and Nadenka fall down together when ice - hill , and turn three somersault .
she be listen to the sound of his voice , see his face and the play of his feature , feel his hand , but do not understand what he be say .
she must go away , must leave he – that be all she think and feel .
she hear Vasily Lukich 's step as he come to the door and cough , and then the step of the nurse as she enter ; but she sit as if turn to stone , powerless to speak or rise .
' Madam , dear ! ' the nurse begin , come up to Anna and kiss her hand and shoulder . ' what joy God have send our little one on his birthday !
and you have not change at all . '
' oh , nurse dear , I do not know you be in the house , ' say Anna , rouse herself for a moment .
' I do not live here , I live with my daughter , and have only come to wish he many happy return , Anna Arkadyevna , dear ! '
suddenly the nurse burst into tear and again begin to kiss Anna 's hand .
Serezha , with bright eye and beam smile , hold his mother with one hand and his nurse with the other , jump with his plump bare foot on to the carpet .
the tenderness of his beloved nurse for his mother send he into rapture .
' mama !
she often come to see I , and when she come ... ' he begin , but stop , notice that his nurse be whisper something in his mother 's ear and that a look of fear and of something like shame , that do not at all suit her face , appear there .
she come up to he and say , ' my darling ! '
she could not say good - bye , but the expression of her face say it and he understand . ' Darling , darling Kutik ! ' she say , call he by the pet name she use when he be quite little , ' you will not forget I ?
you ... ' but she could say no more .
how many thing she think of later that she might have say !
but now she do not know what to say and could not speak .
but Serezha understand all she want to tell he .
he understand that she be unhappy and that she love he .
he have even understand what the nurse have say in a whisper .
he have catch the word ' always before nine o'clock , ' and he understand that they refer to his father and that his mother and father must not meet .
this he have grasp , but he could not make out why that look of fear and shame appear on her face ...
she could not have do wrong , and yet seem afraid and ashamed of something .
he want to ask a question which would clear up his doubt , but dare not ; he see that she suffer and he be sorry for she .
he press against she in silence , and then whisper :
' do not go – he be not come yet ! '
his mother move he away from she , to see whether he really believe what he be say ; and in the frightened look on his face she see not only that he be speak about his father , but that he be , as it be , ask she what he ought to think of he .
' Serezha , my darling ! ' she say , ' love he ! he be well and kind than I , and I be to blame toward he .
when you be grow up you will be able to judge . '
' there be nobody well than you ! ... ' he cry out in desperation through his tear , and seize she by her shoulder he hug she with all his might , his arm tremble with the effort .
' darling little one ! ' say Anna , and begin to cry in the same weak and childlike way as he .
at that moment the door open and Vasily Lukich enter .
step be hear approach the other door , and the nurse say in a frightened whisper , ' come ! ... ' and hand Anna her bonnet .
Serezha sink down on his bed and begin to sob , hide his face in his hand .
Anna move the hand away , kiss he again on his wet face , and go rapidly out .
Karenin be advance toward she .
when he see she , he stop and bow his head .
despite what she have just say , – that he be well and kind than she be – after cast at he a rapid glance which take in his whole figure to the minute detail , she be seize by a feeling of loathing and anger toward he and of jealousy for her son .
she swiftly let down her veil and with quickened step almost run out of the room .
she have not have time even to unwrap the toy she have choose with so much love and sadness the day before , and she take they back with she .
chapter XXXI
GREATLY as ANNA have desire to see HER SON , and long as she have think of and prepare herself for the interview , she have not at all expect that it would affect she so powerfully .
on return to her lonely suite in the hotel she could not for a long time understand why she be there .
' yes , it be all end and I be alone again , ' she say to herself ; and without take off her bonnet she sit down in an easy - chair by the fireplace .
with her eye fix on a bronze clock , stand on a table between the window , she begin ponder .
the french maid , whom she have bring from abroad , come and ask whether she would not dress .
she look at she in astonishment and reply , ' later . ' a waiter offer her coffee .
' later , ' she say .
the italian nurse , having smartene up the baby girl , come in and hold she out to Anna .
the plump , well - nourish baby , as usual when she see her mother , turn her little hand – so fat that they look as if the wrist have thread tie tightly round they – palm downward and , smile with her toothless mouth , begin wave they as a fish move its fin , make the starched fold of her embroider frock rustle .
it be impossible not to smile , not to kiss the little thing ; impossible not to hold out a finger to she , which she catch , scream and wriggle the whole surface of her little body ; impossible not to approach one 's lip to her mouth and let she draw they in , her way of kiss .
and Anna do all these thing . she take she in her arm , dandled she , and kiss her fresh cheek and bare elbow ; but at the sight of this child , she realize still more clearly that what she feel for she could not even be call love in comparison with her feeling for Serezha .
everything about this baby be sweet , but for some reason she do not grip the heart .
upon the first child , though by an unloved man , all Anna 's unsatisfied capacity for love be lavish ; but the girl be bear under most trying condition and have not receive a hundredth part of the care give to the first child .
besides , everything about the baby be still prospective , while Serezha be already an individual and a beloved one ; thought and feeling be already struggle in his mind , he understand and love and judge she , she think , recall his word and look .
and from he she be for ever sunder , not only physically but spiritually , and there be no remedy for it .
she return the baby to its nurse , send they away , and open a locket with Serezha 's portrait as a baby about the same age as the little girl .
rise , she remove her bonnet and take from the table an album in which be photograph of her son at different age .
she want to compare these likeness and begin draw they out of the album .
she take they all out but one , the last and good of the photograph .
he be there in a white shirt , astride a chair , his brow frown while his mouth smile .
this be his most characteristic and good expression .
she catch hold of a corner of this photo several time with her deft little hand , the slender white finger of which move with special strenuousness that day , but each time they slip and she could not get the picture out .
there be no knife on the table , and she draw out the photo next to it ( one , take in Rome , of Vronsky with long hair and wear a round hat ) , and with it push out her son 's photo .
' yes , there he be ! ' she say with a glance at Vronsky 's likeness , and suddenly remember that he be the cause of her present grief .
she have not call he to mind all that morning ; but now , having catch sight of that manly , noble face , so familiar and dear to she , she feel an unexpected flow of love toward he .
' but where be he ?
how can he leave I alone in my anguish ? ' she suddenly think with a sense of reproach , forget that she herself have hide from he all that concern her son .
she send to ask he to come up to she at once . she await he , think with a sink heart of the word in which she would tell he everything and of the expression of his love which would comfort she .
the servant return with the reply that he have a visitor , but would come up at once , and wish to know whether he might bring with he Prince Yashvin , who have just arrive in Petersburg .
' so he will not come alone , ' she think , ' he will not come so that I can tell he everything , but will bring Yashvin ... '
and suddenly a strange idea cross her mind : what if he have cease to love she ?
go over in her mind the event of the last few day , she think she perceive in everything a confirmation of that dreadful thought : in the fact that he have not dine at home the day before , and that he have insist on have separate apartment while in Petersburg , and that even now he be not come alone perhaps to avoid a tête - à - tête with she .
' but he must tell I .
I must know it !
if I know it , then I know what I shall do , ' she tell herself , powerless to imagine the position she would find herself in when she be convince of his indifference .
she imagine that he have cease to love she , and she be almost in despair : which rouse in she a feeling of peculiar excitement .
she ring for her maid , and go into the dressing - room pay more attention to her toilet than she have do all these day , as if , having cease to love she , his love might be recall by she wear the dress and have her hair do in the style most become to she .
she hear the bell before she be ready .
when she enter the drawing - room not his eye but Yashvin 's meet hers .
Vronsky be examine her son 's photo , which she have forget on the table , and do not hurry to look at she .
' we be acquaint , ' she say , place her little hand in the enormous hand of the embarrassed Yashvin , whose confusion do not seem to accord with his huge figure and rough face . ' we have be acquaint since last year 's race ...
let I have they , ' she add , with a rapid movement take from Vronsky the photo he be look at , and glance at he impressively with glisten eye . ' be the race good this year ?
I see the race on the Corso in Rome instead !
but of course you do not care for life abroad , ' she go on with a pleasant smile : ' I know you and know all your taste , though we have meet so seldom . '
' I be very sorry to hear it , for my taste be mostly bad , ' say Yashvin , bite the left side of his moustache .
after a short talk , notice that Vronsky look at the clock , Yashvin ask she whether she would be stay long in Petersburg , and straighten his immense body pick up his cap .
' not long , I think , ' she reply with embarrassment glance at Vronsky .
' then we shall not meet again ? ' say Yashvin , rise ; and then turn to Vronsky he ask , ' where be you dine ? '
' come and dine with I , ' say Anna resolutely , as if vex with herself for her embarrassment , yet blush as she always do when she reveal her position to a fresh person . ' the dinner here be not good , but at any rate you will see one another .
of all his regimental friend Alexis like you good . '
' I shall be very pleased , ' say Yashvin , with a smile which show Vronsky that he like Anna very much .
Yashvin bow and go out . Vronsky remain behind .
' you be go too ? ' she ask .
' I be late as it be , ' he answer . ' go on !
I shall catch you up in a minute ! ' he shout to Yashvin .
she take his hand and look fixedly at he , try to think of something to say to prevent his leave she .
' wait – I have something to tell you , ' she say , and raise his short hand she press it to her neck . ' be it wrong of I to ask he to dinner ? '
' you have do very well , ' he reply , show his compact row of tooth in a calm smile , and kiss her hand .
' Alexis , you have not change toward I ? ' she ask , squeeze his hand in both her . ' Alexis , I be in torment here !
when be we go ? '
' soon , very soon !
you would hardly believe how try our life here be to I too , ' he say , draw away his hand .
' well , then go ! go ! ' she say in an offend tone , and quickly leave he .
chapter XXXII
when vronsky RETURNED Anna have not yet come home .
he be tell that , soon after he leave , a lady come to see she and they go away together .
her departure without mention where she be go , her prolonged absence , and the fact that she have be away somewhere in the morning without tell he about it , add to her strangely excited look that morning , and the animosity with which in Yashvin 's presence she have almost snatch her son 's photograph out of his hand , make Vronsky reflect .
he decide that it be necessary to have an explanation with she , and he wait for she in the drawing - room .
but Anna do not return alone , she bring with she her old maiden aunt , Princess Oblonskaya .
she it be who have be to see Anna that morning , and they have be shop together .
Anna seem not to notice the worried look of inquiry on Vronsky 's face , but chatter gaily about what she have be buy .
he see that something unusual be take place within she : her eye glitter with an expression of strained attention when her look rest on he , and in her speech and motion there be that nervous quickness and grace which , during the first period of their intimacy , have so captivated he , but which now trouble and alarm he .
the table be lay for four .
they be all assemble and about to enter the little dining - room , when Tushkevich arrive with a message for Anna from the Princess Betsy .
the Princess ask to be excuse for not come to say good - bye ; she be not well , but ask Anna to come and see she between half - past six and nine .
Vronsky glance at Anna when that definite time be mention , which show that care have be take to prevent her meeting anyone there ; but Anna do not seem to observe it .
' I be sorry that between half - past six and nine be just the time when I can not come , ' she reply with a faint smile .
' the Princess will be very sorry . '
' and I too . '
' I expect you be go to hear Patti ? ' ask Tushkevich .
' Patti ?
that be an idea !
I would go if I could get a box . '
' I could get you one , ' say Tushkevich .
' I should be very , very grateful if you would ! ' reply Anna . ' but will not you stay and dine with we ? '
Vronsky slightly shrug his shoulder .
he could not in the least understand what Anna be after .
why have she bring the old Princess , why have she ask Tushkevich to stay to dinner , and , strange of all , why be she send he to get she a box for the opera ?
be it conceivable that , in her position , she be go to the opera when Patti be to sing , and when all the subscriber , her Society acquaintance , would be present ?
he look seriously at she , but she answer he with the same provocative glance of high spirit or desperation , the meaning of which he could not make out .
at dinner Anna be aggressively merry , seem to flirt with both Tushkevich and Yashvin .
after dinner Tushkevich go to get a box and Yashvin to have a smoke . Vronsky go with Yashvin down to his own room , but after sit with he a while , run upstairs again .
Anna be already dress in a light silk dress cut low in front and trim with velvet – a dress she have have make in Paris ; and on her head she wear some rich , white lace , which outline her face and set off her brilliant beauty to great advantage .
' you be really go to the theatre ? ' say he , try not to look at she .
' why do you ask in such a frightened way ? ' she say , again offend because he do not look at she . ' why should I not go ? '
she appear not to grasp the meaning of her word .
' of course there be no reason whatever , ' he reply with a frown .
' that be just what I say , ' she answer , purposely ignore the sarcasm of his tone and calmly pull up her long perfumed glove .
' Anna ! for heaven 's sake , what have come to you ? ' he say , try to recall she to her sense , as her husband once use to do .
' I do not understand your question . '
' you know it be out of the question for you to go . '
' why ?
I be not go alone !
the Princess Barbara have go to dress , and be come with I . '
he shrug his shoulder with a bewildered and despairing look .
' but do not you know ... ? ' he begin .
' I do not want to know '' she almost scream . ' I do not !
do I repent of what I have do ? no !
no ! no !
if it have to begin again from the beginning I should do just the same .
for we , for you and I , only one thing be important : whether we love each other .
no other consideration exist .
why do we live here , separate and not see one another ?
why can not I go ?
I love you , and it be all the same to I , ' she say , change from French into Russian , while her eye as she look at he glitter with a light he could not understand , ' so long as you have not change toward I !
why do not you look at I ? '
he look at she .
he see all the beauty of her face and of her dress , which suit she as her dress always do .
but now it be just this beauty and elegance that irritate he .
' my feeling can not change , you know that ; but I beg you not to go ! I entreat you ! ' he say , again speak French with tender entreaty in his voice but with a cold look in his eye .
she do not hear his word , but see the coldness of his look , and reply irritably :
' and I beg you will explain why I should not go . '
' because it might cause you ... ' he become confused .
' I do not understand you at all !
Yashvin n'est pas compromettant , [ Yashvin 's society be not compromise . ] and Princess Barbara be no bad than other people .
ah , here she be ! '
chapter XXXIII
VRONSKY for the first TIME FELT VEXED and almost angry with Anna for her unwillingness to realize her position .
this feeling be strengthen by the fact that he could not tell she the reason of his vexation .
have he tell she frankly what he think he could have say : ' to appear dressed as you be at the theatre , accompany by the Princess , whom everybody know , mean not only to acknowledge your position as a fall woman but to throw down a challenge to Society – which mean , to renounce it for ever . '
but he could not say this to she .
' but how can she fail to understand it ? and what be happen to she ? ' he ask himself .
he feel that his regard for she have diminish and his consciousness of her beauty increase simultaneously .
he go down frown to his room , and take a seat beside Yashvin , who sit with his long leg stretch out on a chair drink brandy and seltzer , order the same for himself .
' you be talk about Lankovsky 's Powerful .
he be a good horse , and I advise you to buy he , ' say Yashvin , glance at his comrade 's gloomy countenance . ' it be true he have a goose rump , but his leg and head leave nothing to be desire . '
' I think I will take he , ' reply Vronsky .
this conversation about horse interest he , but he never forget Anna , and involuntarily listen to the step in the corridor and glance at the clock on the mantelpiece .
' Anna Arkadyevna send I to say that she have go to the theatre , ' say a servant .
Yashvin empty another glass of brandy into the sparkling water , drink it , and then rise , button his coat .
' well , let we go , ' he say , smile slightly under cover of his big moustache , and show by that smile that he understand the cause of Vronsky 's depression , but do not attach importance to it .
' I be not go , ' say Vronsky dismally .
' well , I have get to , I promise .
then au revoir !
but why not come to the stall ? take Krasinsky 's place , ' Yashvin add as he go out .
' no , I have something to do . '
' with a wife one have trouble , but with one who be not a wife it be bad , ' think Yashvin as he leave the hotel .
leave alone , Vronsky get up and begin pace the room .
' what be on to - day ?
the fourth abonnement ...
Alexander will be there with his wife , and probably Mother also .
that be to say , all Petersburg will be there ...
now she have go in , take off her cloak and come forward into the light .
Tushkevich , Yashvin , the Princess Barbara ... ' he picture they to himself . ' and what of I ?
be I afraid , or have I put she under Tushkevich 's protection ?
whichever way one look at it , it be a stupid position ...
why do she put I in such a position ? ' he say with a wave of his arm .
as he make this gesture he strike the little table on which the seltzer and a decanter of brandy be stand and almost knock it over .
in try to save it from fall he overturn it , and in his vexation kick it and ring the bell .
' if you wish to remain in my service , ' he say to the valet when the latter come in , ' remember your duty .
there must be none of this sort of thing .
you must clear it away . '
the valet , conscious that he be not to blame , be about to defend himself , but , glance at his master see by his face that there be nothing for it but to keep silence ; so , stoop quickly , he kneel on the carpet and begin sort out the whole and broken glass and bottle .
' that be not your business ! send a waiter to clear it up , and get out my dress suit ! '
Vronsky enter the theatre at half - past eight .
the performance be in full swing .
the attendant , an old man , help he off with his overcoat , recognize he and , address he as ' your Excellency , ' suggest that he need not take a ticket for his coat , but should merely call for ' theodore ' when he want it .
there be nobody in the brightly illuminated corridor except the attendant and two footman , who , with their master ' coat over their arm , stand listen outside a door .
through a door slightly ajar come the sound of a muffled staccato accompaniment by the orchestra and of a female voice render a musical phrase with precision .
the door open to let an attendant slip through , and the nearly complete phrase strike Vronsky 's ear distinctly .
the door be close immediately and he do not hear the end of the phrase nor the trill after it , but know from the thunder of applause behind the door that the trill be finish .
when he enter the auditorium , brilliantly illuminate by chandelier and bronze gas bracket , the noise still continue .
on the stage the singer , in a glitter of bare shoulder and diamond , be bow low and smile as she pick up with the help of the tenor – who hold her hand – bouquet that have be clumsily fling across the footlight ; she go up to a gentleman ; with hair shiny with pomatum and part in the middle , who be stretch his long arm across the footlight to hand she something – and the whole audience in the stall and in the box stir , lean forward , shout and applaud .
the conductor from his raise seat help to pass the bouquet , and rearrange his white tie .
Vronsky go to the middle of the floor , then stop and look around he .
to - day he pay less attention than ever to the familiar surrounding : the stage , the noise , and all that well - know , uninteresting , motley herd of audience in the pack theatre .
in the box sit the same kind of lady with the same kind of officer behind they as usual ; the same kind of people , heaven only know who ; the same gaily dress woman , uniform , frock coat ; the same dirty crowd in the gallery ; and in the whole of that throng , in the box and front seat , some forty real man and woman .
to these oasis Vronsky at once turn his attention and immediately get into touch with they .
the act have just finish when he come in , so before go to his brother 's box he go up to the front row and pause beside Serpukhovskoy , who be stand with his knee bent , tap the wall of the orchestra with his heel . he have notice Vronsky afar off and welcome he with a smile .
Vronsky have not yet see Anna , he intentionally avoid look her way ; but from the direction in which people be look he know where she be .
he glance around unobtrusively , but do not look at she : prepare for the bad , he look for Karenin .
luckily for he , Karenin be not in the theatre that evening .
' how little of the military man be leave in you ! ' remark Serpukhovskoy . ' you might be a diplomatist , an artist , or anything of that kind . '
' yes , as soon as I return home I put on a black coat , ' Vronsky reply with a smile , slowly take out his opera - glass .
' now in that , I confess , I envy you !
I , when I come back from abroad and put this on again , regret my freedom , ' he say , touch his shoulder - knot .
Serpukhovskoy have long ago cease to trouble himself about Vronsky 's career , but be as fond of he as ever and be particularly amiable to he now .
' a pity you be late for the first act ! '
Vronsky , listen with one ear , level his glass first at the low tier and then at the box in the dress circle , take they all in review .
next to a lady wear a turban , and a bald old man who blink angrily just as Vronsky 's move glass reach he , he suddenly see Anna 's proud head , strikingly beautiful , and smile in its frame of lace .
she be in the fifth box in the low tier , some twenty pace from he .
she sit in the front of the box and , slightly turn back , be say something to Yashvin .
the poise of her head on her fine broad shoulder , and the gleam of restrained excitement in her eye and her whole face , remind he precisely of how he have see she at the ball in Moscow .
but her beauty affect he very differently now .
there be no long anything mysterious in his feeling for she , and therefore though her beauty attract he even more strongly , it also offend he .
she be not look his way , but he feel that she have already see he .
when Vronsky direct his glass that way again he notice that the Princess Barbara be very red , and that she be laugh unnaturally and look round incessantly at the next box , while Anna , tap with her closed fan the red - velvet edge of the box , be gaze fixedly somewhere else , not see , and evidently not wish to see , what be take place in the next box .
Yashvin 's face wear the expression it have when he be lose at card .
he be frown and draw the left side of his moustache far and far into his mouth , look askance at the adjoining box .
in that box to the left be the Kartasovs .
Vronsky know they and know that Anna have be acquaint with they .
the wife , a thin little woman , be stand up in her box with her back to Anna , put on an opera - cloak which her husband be hold for she .
her face look pale and angry and she be speak excitedly .
Kartasov , a stout bald - headed man , keep glance round at Anna while try to pacify his wife .
when the wife leave the box the husband loiter behind , try to catch Anna 's eye and evidently wish to bow to she .
but Anna , with obvious intention , take no notice of he and , turn round , be say something to Yashvin , whose cropped head be bent toward she .
Kartasov go out without bow and the box remain empty .
Vronsky could not make out what have take place between the Kartasovs and Anna , but he see that it be something humiliating for Anna .
he realize that from what he have see , and especially from Anna 's face , who , he know , be summon her utmost strength to sustain the role she have undertake .
she fully succeed in play that role – of external tranquillity .
those who do not know she and her set , and hear none of the expression of pity , indignation , or surprise utter by the woman because she have allow herself to appear in public and to show herself so ostentatiously in her lace head - dress and in all her beauty , admire the composure and loveliness of the woman , and do not suspect that she feel as though pillory .
know that something have happen , but not know just what , Vronsky feel painfully agitated , and , hope to find out something , set out for his brother 's box .
intentionally leave the auditorium at the opposite side to where Anna be , he encounter the Commander of his old regiment , who stand talk to two acquaintance .
Vronsky hear they mention the name of Karenin , and notice how the commander hasten to call he loudly by name , with a significant glance at the other .
' ah , Vronsky !
when be you come to see we at the regiment ?
we can not let you go away without a feast .
you be one of our very own ! ' say the Commander .
' I shall not have time ... I be very sorry ! some other time , ' say Vronsky , and run up the stair to his brother 's box .
in the box be Vronsky 's mother , the old Countess , with her iron - grey curl .
Varya and the Princess Sorokina he meet in the corridor outside .
having conduct the Princess Sorokina back to Vronsky 's mother , Varya hold out her hand to her brother - in - law and at once begin to talk of the matter that interest he .
he have rarely see she so excited .
' I consider it mean and disgusting , and Madame Kartasova have no right to do it !
Madame Karenina ... ' she begin .
' but what be it ?
I do not know . '
' have not you hear ? '
' you know I shall be the last to hear of it ! '
' be there a creature more venomous than that Kartasova ? '
' but what have she do ? '
' my husband tell I ...
she insult Madame Karenina .
her husband begin converse with she from his box , and Kartasova fly at he !
it seem she say something insult out loud , and then go out . '
' Count , your maman want you , ' say the Princess Sorokina , look out of the box door .
' I have be expect you all the time , ' say his mother with a sarcastic smile . ' I never see anything of you . '
her son see that she could not repress a smile of satisfaction .
' good evening , maman !
I be come to you , ' he reply coldly .
' why do not you faire la cour à Madame Karenine?'[Pay court ] she add , when the Princess Sorokina have step aside . ' Elle fait sensation . on oublie la Patti pour elle ! ' [ she be make a sensation . they be forget Patti because of she . ]
' maman ! I ask you not to speak to I about that subject , ' he answer frown .
' I be say what every one say . '
Vronsky do not reply , and after a few word address to the Princess Sorokina he leave the box .
in the doorway he meet his brother .
' ah , Alexis ! ' say his brother . ' what a shame .
that woman be a fool , that be all ...
I be just go to see she !
let us go together . '
Vronsky do not listen to he .
he hurry downstairs feel that he must do something , he know not what .
he be disturb both by vexation with Anna for place herself and he in this false position , and by pity for her suffering .
he descend to the stall and go straight to Anna 's box , in front of which stand Stremov talk to she .
' there be no more tenor . Le moule en est brisé ! '
[ the mould for they be smash . ]
Vronsky bow to she and stop to shake hand with Stremov .
' I think you get here late and miss the fine aria , ' say Anna to he , with a mock glance as it seem to he .
' I be a poor judge , ' he reply , look severely at she .
' like Prince Yashvin , who consider that Patti sing too loud , ' she return with a smile . ' thank you ! ' she say , take with her small gloved hand a programme Vronsky have pick up for she : and suddenly at that instant her beautiful face quiver .
she rise and go to the back of the box .
notice that during the next act her box remain empty , Vronsky leave the theatre amid cry of ' hush ' from the audience , which have become quiet to listen to a cavatina . he go to his hotel .
Anna have already return .
when Vronsky enter she be still dress as she have be at the theatre .
she be sit in the first arm - chair by the wall , fixedly gaze before she .
she glance at he and immediately resume her former posture .
' Anna ! ' he say .
' it be all your fault ! your fault ! ' she exclaim with tear of despair and spite in her voice , and rise .
' but I ask , I entreat you not to go ! – I know it would be unpleasant for you ! '
' unpleasant ! ' she cry . ' it be awful !
however long I may live I shall never forget it !
she say it be a disgrace to sit near I . '
' the word of a silly woman ; ' he say . ' but why risk it ? why provoke ... '
' I hate your calmness !
you should not have drive I to it .
if you love I ... '
' Anna !
be it a question of my love ? ... '
' yes ! if you love I as I love you , if you suffer the anguish I do ... ' she reply with a frightened glance at he .
he be sorry for she and yet vex with she .
he assure she of his love , because he see that that alone could pacify she now , and do not reproach she with word , though he reproach she in his heart .
and those assurance of love , which to he appear so trivial that he feel ashamed to utter they , she drink in and gradually become calm .
next day , fully reconcile , they leave for the country .
PART VI
chapter I
DOLLY and HER child be spend the summer with her sister Kitty at Pokrovsk .
the house on her own estate be quite dilapidate , so Levin and his wife persuade she to spend the summer with they .
Oblonsky quite approve of this arrangement .
he say he greatly regret that his duty prevent his spending the summer with his family in the country , which would have give he the great pleasure ; and he remain in Moscow , visit the country occasionally for a day or two at a time .
beside the Oblonskys with all their child and their governess , the Levins have other visitor – the old Princess , who consider it her duty to watch over her inexperienced daughter in that condition ; and also Varenka , Kitty 's friend from abroad who be keep her promise to visit her friend now that she be marry .
all these be relation and friend of Kitty 's , and , though Levin like they , he regret his own – the Levin – world and order of thing , which be be submerge by this influx of ' the Shcherbatsky element , ' as he put it to himself .
only one of his relative , Sergius Ivanich , visit he that summer – and he be a man of the Koznyshev type and not a Levin , so that the Levin spirit be quite overwhelmed .
in the Levin house , so long empty , there be now so many people that nearly every room be occupy and the old Princess be oblige almost daily to count those present before sit down to a meal . if there chance to be thirteen , she would make a grandchild sit at the side - table .
and Kitty , who conduct her household with great assiduity , have no little trouble to procure all the chicken , turkey , and duck , of which , with the visitor ' and the child 's summer appetite very many be require .
the whole family be assemble at dinner .
Dolly 's child , their governess , and Varenka be plan where they should hunt for mushroom ; Koznyshev , who by his intellect and learn command a respect almost amount to veneration from all the visitor , surprise every one by join in the conversation about mushroom .
' you must take I too !
I be very fond of look for mushroom , ' he say with a glance at Varenka . ' I consider it a very good occupation . '
' why , certainly ! we shall be very pleased , ' reply Varenka with a blush .
Kitty and Dolly exchange significant look .
the intellectual and learn Koznyshev 's offer to go and gather mushroom with Varenka confirm a suspicion that have greatly occupy Kitty 's mind of late .
she hasten to say something to her mother so that her glance should pass unnoticed .
after dinner Koznyshev sit down by the drawing - room window , continue his conversation with his brother over a cup of coffee and glance now and then at the door through which the child , who be prepare to set out on the mushroom hunt , would enter .
Levin sit down on the window - sill beside his brother .
Kitty stand near her husband , evidently wait for the end of the conversation – which do not interest she – before speak to he .
' in many way you have change since your marriage and for the well , ' say Koznyshev , smile at Kitty and apparently not much interested in his conversation with his brother ; ' but you have remain true to your passion for defend the most paradoxical view . '
' kate , it be not good for you to be stand , ' say her husband , with a meaning look , move a chair toward she .
' ah , well ! there be no time now , ' add Koznyshev as the child came run in .
in advance of they all , at a sideways gallop , come Tanya in tightly pull - up stocking , run toward Koznyshev , flourish a basket and his hat .
having boldly approach he , her beautiful eye beam ( eye so like her father 's ) , she give he his hat and make a movement as if to put it on he , her shy and gentle smile soften the boldness of the action .
' Varenka be wait , ' she say , carefully place his hat on his head when she see from his smile that she have permission to do so .
Varenka , who be wear a yellow print dress and a white kerchief on her head , stand in the doorway .
' I be come , Mlle Varenka , ' say Koznyshev , drink up his coffee and pocket his handkerchief and cigarcase .
' what a darle my Varenka be , eh ? '
Kitty say to her husband as soon as Koznyshev have rise .
she say it so that the latter could hear , with an evident desire that he should do so . ' and how handsome , how nobly handsome ! ...
Varenka ! ' she exclaim . ' you will be in the wood by the mill ?
we will drive there . '
' you quite forget your condition , Kitty , ' say the old Princess , hurry in . ' you should not shout so . '
Varenka , hear Kitty 's voice and her mother reprimand she , come up with her light step .
the quickness of Varenka 's movement , the colour suffuse her animate face , all show that something unusual be take place within she .
Kitty know what that unusual thing be , and watch she attentively .
she have now call Varenka only to give she a silent blessing for the important event which , accord to Kitty , be to happen in the wood that day after dinner .
' Varenka , I shall be very happy if a certain thing come to pass , ' she whisper , kiss she .
' and be you come with we ? ' Varenka , quite confused , ask Levin , pretend not to have hear what have be say to she .
' I will come , but only as far as the threshing - floor . I shall stay there . '
' oh , why should you ? ' say Kitty .
' I must look at the new waggon , and count they , ' say Levin . ' and where will you be ? '
' on the balcony . '
chapter II
all the WOMEN of the HOUSEHOLD be assemble on the balcony .
they always like to sit there after dinner but to - day they have special business there .
besides the sewing of little shirt and the knitting of swaddle band , on which they be all engage , to - day jam be be make there in a way new to Agatha Mikhaylovna : without the addition of water to the fruit .
Kitty be introduce this new way , which have be employ in her old home , but Agatha Mikhaylovna , to whom this work have formerly be entrust , and who consider that nothing that use to be do in the Levin house could be wrong , have , despite her direction , put water to the strawberry and the wild strawberry jam , declare it to be indispensable . she have be detect do this , and now the raspberry jam be be make in every one 's presence , as Agatha Mikhaylovna have to be convince that without water the jam could turn out well .
Agatha Mikhaylovna , with a flushed face and aggrieved expression , her hair ruffle and her thin arm bare to the elbow , be shake the preserve pan over the brazier with a circular movement , look dismally at the raspberry and hope with all her heart that they would harden and not get cook through .
the old Princess , conscious that against she , as chief adviser in the matter of jam boiling , Agatha Mikhaylovna 's wrath should be direct , try to look as if she be think of other thing and be not interested in the raspberry . she talk of other matter , but watch the brazier out of the corner of her eye .
' I always buy dress material for the maid myself , at the sale , ' the Princess say , continue the conversation . ' be it not time to take the scum off , my dear ? ' she add , turn to Agatha Mikhaylovna . ' it be not at all necessary for you to do it yourself , besides it be hot , ' she say , stop Kitty .
' I will do it , ' say Dolly , and she get up and begin carefully slide the spoon over the surface of the bubble syrup , and now and then , to remove what have stick to the spoon , she tap it against a plate already cover with the yellowish pink scum , with blood - red streak of syrup showing beneath it .
' how they will lick it up at tea - time ! ' she think of the child , remember how she herself , when a child , use to marvel that the grown - up do not eat the scum – the nice part .
' Steve say it be well to give they money , ' dolly remark , return to the interesting topic of what present it be good to give to the servant , ' but ... '
' how can one give they money ! ' say the Princess and Kitty with one voice . ' they value present so ! '
' well , I for instance get our Matrena Semenovna not exactly poplin , but something of that kind , last year , ' say the Princess .
' yes , I remember she wear it on your name day . '
' the pattern be charming – so simple and refined .
I would have have one make like it myself if she have not have it .
it be something like Varenka 's , and so pretty and cheap . '
' well , I think it be ready now , ' say Dolly , dripping syrup from the spoon .
' when it begin to string , it be ready .
Boil it up a little long , Agatha Mikhaylovna . '
' oh , these fly ! ' cry Agatha Mikhaylovna crossly . ' it will come out just the same . '
' oh , how sweet he be – do not frighten he ! ' exclaim Kitty unexpectedly , look at a sparrow that have settle on the railing , turn a raspberry stalk over , and be peck at it .
' yes , but keep away from the brazier , ' say her mother .
' a propos de Varenka , ' say Kitty in French , which they have be talk all the time so that Agatha Mikhaylovna should not understand they . ' do you know , Mama , I be somehow expect it to be settle to - day !
you understand what I mean .
how nice it would be ! '
' dear I ! what a skilful matchmaker ! ' tease Dolly . ' how carefully and adroitly she bring they together ! '
' come , Mama . tell I what you think about it ? '
' what be I to think ?
he , ' he mean Koznyshev , ' could have make the good match in Russia any time ; now he be no long so young , but all the same I be sure many would marry he even now ...
she be very good - natured , but he might ... '
' oh , but , Mama , try and understand why nothing well could be imagine either for he or for she .
first of all , she be simply charming ! ' expostulate Kitty , crook one finger .
' he certainly like she very much , ' dolly chime in .
' secondly , his position in the world be such that neither property nor the social position of his wife matter to he at all .
he only need a good , sweet , quiet wife . '
' yes , one certainly can trust she , ' again chime in Dolly .
' thirdly , she must love he ; and that too be ...
in a word , it would be splendid !
I expect when they come back from the wood it will all be settle .
I shall see it at once by their eye .
I should be so glad !
what do you think , Dolly ? '
' but do not get excited ; there be no need at all for you to get excited , ' admonish her mother .
' but I be not excited , Mama !
I think he will propose to - day . '
' ah , how strange it be when and how a man propose ...
there be a sort of barrier , and suddenly down it go , ' say Dolly with a dreamy smile , recall her past with Oblonsky .
' mama , how do Papa propose to you ? ' Kitty suddenly inquire .
' there be nothing special about it – it be quite simple , ' answer the Princess , but her face brighten at the memory .
' no , but how ... ?
you really love he before you be allow to talk to one another ? '
Kitty feel a particular charm in be able now to talk with her mother as an equal about those chief event in a woman 's life .
' of course he love I ; he use to visit we in the country . '
' but how be it decide , Mama ? '
' I suppose you think you discover something new ?
it be just the same – it be decide by the eye , by smile ... '
' how well you put it , mama !
by the eye and by smile , that be just it ! ' chime in Dolly .
' but what be the word he say ? '
' what word do Constantine say to you ? '
' he write with chalk .
it vas wonderful ...
how long ago it seem ! ' she reply .
and the three woman meditate silently on the same subject .
Kitty be the first to break the silence .
she recall the whole of the winter precede her marriage and her infatuation with Vronsky .
' there be one thing ... that old love - affair of Varenka 's , ' she say , follow the natural sequence of her thought . ' I wish to tell Koznyshev somehow , to prepare he .
man , all of they , be terribly jealous of our past . '
' not all , ' say Dolly . ' you judge by your own husband .
he be still torment by the memory of Vronsky .
eh ?
be I not right ?
' you be , ' answer Kitty , her eye smile dreamily .
' but I do not know , ' interpose the Princess , defend her maternal watchfulness over her daughter , ' what there be in your past to trouble he !
that Vronsky court you ?
such thing happen to every girl . '
' oh , but we be not talk about that , ' say Kitty , blushing .
' no , excuse I ! ' her mother continue . ' and then you yourself would not let I talk it over with Vronsky .
do not you remember ? '
' oh Mama ! ' say Kitty , look pain .
' nowadays one can not hold you girl in ...
your relation with he could not have go beyond what be proper , else I should have speak to he myself !
however , my love , it will not do for you to get agitated .
please remember that and keep calm . '
' I be quite calm , Mama . '
' how happily it turn out for Kitty that Anna come , ' say Dolly , ' and how unhappily for she !
the exact reverse , ' she add , strike by her thought . ' then Anna be so happy and Kitty consider herself miserable .
now it be the exact reverse !
I often think of she . '
' she be not worth think about !
a horrid , disgusting woman without a heart , ' say their mother , unable to forget that Kitty have not marry Vronsky but Levin .
' what be the use of talk about that ? ' expostulate Kitty with vexation .
' I do not think about it , and do not want to , ' she say , listen to her husband come up the balcony step . ' I do not want to think about it . '
' about what do not you want to think ? ' he ask as he come up .
no one answer and he do not repeat the question .
' I be sorry I have intrude into your woman 's domain , ' he say , glance round at they all with a dissatisfied air , and realize that they have be talk of something they would not have talk of in his presence .
for an instant he feel that he share Agatha Mikhaylovna 's dissatisfaction that the jam be boil without water , and with the alien Shcherbatsky influence in general .
he smile , however , and go up to Kitty .
' well ? ' he ask , look at she with the expression with which every one address she nowadays .
' quite all right , ' reply Kitty with a smile . ' and your affair ? '
' the waggons'll hold three time as much as peasant cart .
shall we go and fetch the child ?
I have order the trap . '
' what ? be you go to take Kitty in the trap ? ' say her mother reproachfully .
' only at a walking pace , Princess . '
Levin never call the Princess Maman , as son - in - law usually do , and this displease the Princess .
but though he like and respect she very much , Levin could not address she so without violate his feeling for his dead mother .
' come with we , Mama , ' say Kitty .
' I do not wish to see such unreasonable doing . '
' well , then I will go on foot !
walk be good for I , ' and Kitty rise , go to her husband and take his arm .
' it be good for you in moderation , ' say the Princess .
' well , Agatha Mikhaylovna , be the jam do ? ' ask Levin , smile at she and wish to cheer she up . ' have it turn out well the new way ? '
' I suppose so .
we would have think it overdone . '
' it be well so , Agatha Mikhaylovna : it will not ferment , and we have no ice leave in the cellar and nowhere to keep it cool , ' say Kitty , immediately see her husband 's intention and address the old woman in the same spirit . ' on the other hand , your pickling be such that Mama say she never taste anything like it ! ' she add , smile and put the old woman 's kerchief straight .
Agatha Mikhaylovna look crossly at Kitty .
' you need not comfort I , ma'am !
I just look at you and he , and then I feel happy , ' she say and that disrespectful way of speak of her master as he seem touch to Kitty .
' come with we and get mushroom ! you will show we the right place . ' Agatha Mikhaylovna smile and shake her head , as much as to say : ' though I should like to be cross with you , I can not do it . '
' please follow my advice , ' say the old Princess , ' cover the jam with paper soak in rum , and then it will not get mouldy , even without ice . '
KITTY be particularly GLAD of the opportunity of be alone with her husband , for she have notice the shadow of pain that flit over his face , which so vividly reflect all his emotion , when he come on the balcony , ask what they be talk about and receive no reply .
when they start on their walk in advance of the other and have pass out of sight of the house on to the hard , dusty road , strew with rye - ear and grain , she lean more heavily on his arm and press it .
he have already forget that momentarily unpleasant impression , and be alone with she experienced , now that the thought of her pregnancy never leave he , a feeling still novel and joyful to he of pleasure , entirely free from sensuality , at the nearness of a beloved woman .
they have nothing to say to one another , but he want to hear the sound of her voice , which like her look have be change by pregnancy .
in her voice as in her look there be now a certain softness and seriousness , as of a person continually intent on one beloved task .
' you be sure you will not be tired ?
lean more on I , ' he say .
' no . I be so glad of a chance to be alone with you ; and I own that , nice as it be to have they all , I regret our winter evening alone together . '
' they be pleasant , but this be still well .
both be well , ' he say , press her hand .
' do you know what we be talk about when you come in ? '
' about the jam ? '
' yes , about jam , and then ... about how people propose . '
' ah ! ' say Levin , listen more to the sound of her voice than to her word , think all the while about the road , which now lead through the wood , and avoid place where she might take a false step .
' and about Sergius and Varenka .
do you notice ? ...
I want it so much , ' she go on . ' what do you think about it ? ' and she look into his face .
' I do not know what to think , ' Levin reply with a smile . ' Sergius seem very strange to I in that regard .
I tell you ... '
' yes – that he be in love with that girl who die ... '
' it happen when I be still a child ; I only know of it from what I be tell .
I remember he at that time .
he be wonderfully charming .
but since then I have observe he with woman : he be amiable and some of they please he , but I feel that for he they be simply human being , not woman . '
' yes , but now with Varenka ? ...
there seem to be something ... '
' perhaps there be ...
but one must know he .
he be a peculiar , a wonderful man .
he live only a spiritual life .
he be a man of too pure and lofty a nature . '
' what !
would that lower he ? '
' no , but he be so used to live a purely spiritual life that he can not reconcile himself to reality , and , after all , Varenka be a reality ! '
Levin have by this time become accustomed to express his thought boldly , without troubling to put they into precise phraseology ; he know that at such loving moment as the present his wife would understand what he mean from a mere hint , and she do understand he .
' yes , but in she there be not so much of that reality as there be in I , I know he would never have love I .
she be all spirit . '
' oh no ! he be very fond of you , and it be always such a pleasure to I when my people be fond of you . '
' yes , he be kind to I , but ... '
' but it be not like poor Nicholas ... you would have love one another , ' say Levin , finish her sentence for she .
' why not speak of he ? ' he add . ' sometimes I blame myself for not do so , it will end by my forget he .
oh , what a dreadful , what a charming man he be ! ... yes , what be we talk about ? ' he conclude after a pause .
' you think he can not fall in love , then ? ' say Kitty , put his thought into her own word .
' not exactly that he can not fall in love , ' Levin answer with a smile , ' but he have none of that weakness which be necessary ...
I always envy he , and even now , when I be so happy , I still envy he . '
' you envy he because he can not fall in love ? '
' I envy he because he be well than I be , ' reply he , smile . ' he do not live for himself .
his whole life be subordinate to duty .
and so he can be calm and contented . '
' and you ? ' say Kitty with a mock smile of love amusement .
she could not have express the sequence of thought that make her smile , but the last deduction be that her husband , in extoll his brother and depreciate himself , be not quite sincere .
but she know that this insincerity be the outcome of his affection for his brother , of a sense of shame at his own excessive happiness , and especially of that desire to improve which never leave he ; she love this in he , and therefore smile .
' and you ?
what be you dissatisfied with ? ' she say with the same smile .
her disbelief in his dissatisfaction with himself be pleasant , and unconsciously he challenge she to give reason for her disbelief .
' I be happy , but dissatisfied with myself ... ' he answer .
' how can you be dissatisfied if you be happy ? '
' I mean ... how shall I put it ? ...
in my heart I wish for nothing more , except that you should not stumble . oh dear !
how can you jump so ! ' he say , interrupt the conversation to rebuke she for make too quick a movement while step over a branch that lie across the path . ' but when I examine myself and compare myself with other , especially with my brother , I feel how bad I be . '
' in what way ? ' ask she , still smile . ' do not you do anything for other ?
what about your small holding , your farming , and your book ? '
' no . I feel it now more than ever – and it be your fault , ' he answer , press her arm , ' that it be not the right thing .
I do it , but it be superficial .
if I could love all that work as I love you ... but of late I have be do it like a task set I ... '
' well then , what do you say to Papa ? ' ask Kitty . ' be he bad too , because he do nothing for the common good ? '
' he ? oh no !
but one must have your father 's simplicity , clearness , and kindness , and have I get all that ?
I do not act and I worry .
it be you who have do it .
before you be there , and that , ' he say with a glance at her figure , which she understand , ' I put all my strength into my work ; but now I can not and I feel ashamed . I do it just like a task that have be set I .
' then would you now like to change place with Sergius Ivanich ? ' ask Kitty . ' would you prefer to do that public work , and love that give task as he do , and nothing more ? '
' of course not ! ' reply Levin . ' however , I be so happy that I do not understand anything ...
so you think he will propose to - day ? ' he add after a pause .
' I do , and I do not . but I want he to , awfully !
wait , we will see . ' she stoop and pick an ox - eye daisy by the roadside .
' there , begin ! he will propose , he will not ... ' and she hand he the flower .
' he will , he will not , ' say Levin , pull off the veined white petal .
' no , no ! ' exclaim she , watch his finger excitedly as she seize his hand to stop he . ' you 've pull off two at once . '
' well then , we will not count this tiny one , ' say he , pick off a short ill - form petal . ' and here be the trap overtake we . '
' be not you tired , Kitty ? ' the Princess call out .
' not at all . '
' if so you would well get in , if the horse be quiet and go at a walk pace . '
but it be not worth while to drive as they have nearly reach the place , and so they all go on foot .
chapter IV
VARENKA with the white KERCHIEF over HER BLACK hair , surround by the child and good - naturedly and cheerfully busy with they , and evidently excite by the possibility of an offer of marriage from a man she like , look very attractive .
Koznyshev walk by her side and do not cease admire she .
look at she he remember all the charming thing he have hear she say , and all he know of she that be good , and he grow more and more conscious that what he feel for she be something rare , something he have feel but once before , a long , long time ago , when he be very young .
his sense of pleasure at her nearness go on increase until it reach a point where , when place in her basket an enormous wood mushroom with a thin stem and up - curling top , he look into her eye and , note the flush of joyful and frightened agitation that suffuse her face , he himself become embarrassed and give she a smile that say too much .
' if it be so , I must think it over and come to a decision , and not let myself be carry away like a boy by the impulse of the moment , ' he tell himself .
' now I will go and gather mushroom quite on my own account , or else my harvest will not be noticeable , ' say he , and go away from the skirt of the wood , where they be walk about on the short silky grass under sparsely grow old birch , and penetrate deeply into the wood , where among the white birch trunk grow grey - stemmed aspen and dark hazel bush .
when he have go some forty pace he step behind a spindle bush with pink and red earring - shape blossom , and pause , know that he could no long be see .
around he everything be quiet .
only the hum of fly , like that of a swarm of bee , sound continually high up in the birch tree beneath which he stand , and occasionally the child 's voice reach he .
suddenly , from the skirt of the wood not far off , he hear Varenka 's contralto voice call to Grisha , and a smile of pleasure light up his face .
conscious of that smile , Koznyshev shake his head disapprovingly at his own state and take out a cigar begin to light it .
he be long unable to strike a match against the bark of a birch .
the delicate white outer bark adhere to the phosphorus , and the light go out .
at last one match do burn up , and the scented smoke of the cigar , like a broad sway sheet definitely outline , move forwards and upwards over the bush under the overhang branch of the birch - tree .
watch the sheet of smoke , he go on slowly , meditate on his condition of mind .
' why not ? ' he think . ' if it be just a sudden impulse or passion – if I only feel this attraction , this mutual attraction ( it be mutual ) , but feel that it be contrary to the whole tenor of my life , and that by give way to it I should be false to my vocation and duty ...
but it be nothing of the kind . the one thing I can find against it be that when I lose Marie I tell myself that I would remain true to her memory .
that be the only thing I can say against my feeling ...
that be important , ' think Koznyshev , conscious nevertheless that this consideration could not have any importance for he personally , although in the eye of other it might spoil his poetic role .
' but , apart from that , however much I search I could find nothing to say against my feeling .
if I have choose by reason alone , I could find nothing well ! '
he recall the woman and girl he have know , but try as he would he could not recall one who unite in herself to such a degree all , literally all , the quality which he , think the matter over in cold blood , would desire in a wife .
she have all the charm and freshness of youth but be no long a child , and if she love he , love he consciously as a woman ought to love . that be one favourable consideration .
the second one be : she be not only far from worldly , but evidently feel a repulsion from the world , yet she know the world and have all the way of a woman of good Society , without which a life - companion would be unthinkable for he .
the third be : she be religious , not irresponsibly religious and kind - hearted like a child – like Kitty for instance but her life be base on religious conviction .
even down to small detail Koznyshev find in she all that he desire in a wife : she be poor and solitary , so that she would not bring into her husband 's house a crowd of relation and their influence , as he see Kitty do . she would be indebted to her husband for everything , which be a thing he have always desire in his future family life .
and this girl , unite all the quality , love he .
he be modest , but could not help be aware of this .
and he love she .
one of the opposite argument be his age .
but he come of a long - live race , he have not a single grey hair , no one think he be forty , and he remember that Varenka have say it be only in Russia that man of fifty consider themselves old , and that in France a man of fifty consider himself dans la force de l'âge , [ in the prime of life . ] while one of forty be un jeune homme . [ a young man . ]
and what be the use of count by year , when he feel as young at heart as he have be twenty year ago ?
be it not youth that he be experience now , when come out again on the other side of the wood he see , in the bright slanting sunbeam , the graceful form of Varenka in her yellow dress and with a basket on her arm , step lightly past the trunk of an old birch , and when the impression of Varenka merge into one with the view that have so strike he with its beauty : the view of the field of ripen oats bathe in the slant sunbeam and the old forest beyond , fleck with yellow , fade away into the bluish distance .
his heart leap with joy .
his feeling carry he away .
he feel that the matter be decide .
Varenka , who have bend to pick a mushroom , rise buoyantly and glance round .
throw away his cigar Koznyshev go toward she with resolute step .
chapter v
' MLLE VARENKA ! when very YOUNG I form my ideal of the woman I should love and whom I should be happy to call my wife .
I have live many year , and now in you for the first time I have meet what I be in search of .
I love you , and offer you my hand . '
this be what Koznyshev say to himself when he be already within ten step of Varenka .
kneeling and with outstretched arm defend some mushroom from Grisha , she be call little Masha .
' come along , little one !
there be a lot here , ' she cry in her delightful mellow voice .
on see Koznyshev approach she do not move ; yet everything tell he that she feel his approach and be glad of it .
' well , have you find anything ? ' she ask from beneath her white kerchief , turn her handsome face toward he , with a gentle smile .
' not one , ' say Koznyshev . ' and you ? '
she do not reply , be busy with the child who surround she .
' there be another , near the branch , ' she say , point to a small mushroom cut across its firm pinkish crown by a dry blade of grass from beneath which it have spring up .
Varenka rise when Masha have pick the mushroom , break it into two white piece . ' it remind I of my childhood , ' she add , move away from the child with Koznyshev .
they go a few pace in silence .
Varenka see that he want to speak , and guess the subject she grow faint with joy and fear .
they have go far enough not to be overhear , but he still have not begin .
it would have be well for Varenka to remain silent .
it would have be easy after a silence to say what they wish to say than after talk about mushroom ; yet against her will , and as if by accident , she say :
' so you have not find anything ?
but of course deep in the wood there be always few . '
Koznyshev sigh and do not speak .
he be vex that she have speak about mushroom .
he wish to bring she back to her first remark about her childhood ; but without wish to , after a pause , he reply to her last word :
' I have only hear that the white boleti grow chiefly on the outskirt , but I can not even tell which be the white one . '
a few more minute pass ; they have go still far from the child and be quite alone .
Varenka 's heart beat so that she seem to hear it , and she feel herself grow red and then pale and red again .
to be the wife of a man like Koznyshev after her difficult life with Madame Stahl seem to she the height of bliss .
besides , she be almost sure she love he , and now in a moment it must be decide .
she be frightened : frightened of what he might or might not say .
' he must make his declaration now or never ' ; Koznyshev also feel this .
everything – Varenka 's look , her blush , her downcast eye – betray painful expectation .
he see it and be sorry for she .
he even feel that to say nothing now would be to offend she .
his mind go rapidly over all the argument in favour of his decision .
he repeat to himself the word with which he have intend to propose ; but instead of those word some unexpected thought cause he to say :
' what difference be there between the white boleti and the birch - tree variety ? '
Varenka 's lip tremble with emotion when she reply :
' there be hardly any difference in the top , but only in the stem . '
and as soon as those word be speak , both he and she understand that all be over , and that what ought to have be say would not be say , and their excitement , having reach its climax , begin to subside .
' the stem of the birch - tree boletus remind one of a dark man 's beard two day old , ' remark Koznyshev calmly .
' yes , that be true , ' answer Varenka with a smile , and involuntarily the direction of their stroll change .
they begin to return to the child .
Varenka feel pained and ashamed , but at the same time she experience a sense of relief .
Koznyshev when he get home and go again over all his reason , come to the conclusion that at first he have judge wrongly .
he could not be unfaithful to Marie 's memory .
' gently , gently , child ! ' shout Levin almost angrily , step in front of his wife to shield she , when the crowd of child came rush at they with shriek of delight .
behind the child Koznyshev and Varenka come out of the wood .
Kitty have no need to question Varenka : from the calm and rather shamefaced look on both face she know that her plan have not be realize .
' well ? ' inquire her husband on their way home .
' will not bite , ' answer Kitty with a smile and manner of speak like her father , which Levin often observe in she with pleasure .
' will not bite ? how do you mean ? '
' like this , ' she say , take her husband 's hand , raise it to her mouth , and slightly touch it with her close lip . ' as one kiss the bishop 's hand . '
' who will not bite ? ' say he , laugh .
' neither !
and it should have be like this ... '
' mind , here be some peasant come ... '
' they do not see ! '
chapter VI
during the CHILDREN 's TEA the grown - up sit on the balcony and talk as if nothing have happen , though they all , especially Koznyshev and Varenka , know very well that something have happen which though negative be highly important .
they both experience what be feel by a pupil who have fail in an examination and have to remain in the same class or be finally expel from the school .
every one talk with peculiar animation about extraneous topic .
Levin and Kitty feel particularly happy and in love with one another that evening .
their happiness in their love involve an unpleasant reflection on those who desire , but have fail , to secure the same happiness , and make they feel ashamed .
' take my word for it , Alexander will not come , ' say the old Princess .
they be expect Oblonsky by the evening train , and the old Prince have write that he would perhaps accompany he .
' and I know why , ' continue the Princess . ' he say young married folk should be leave to themselves for a while . '
' yes , Papa have really abandon we , ' say Kitty .
we have not see he ... and be we young married folk ? ...
why , we be such old one now ! '
' only if he do not come I too shall say good - bye to you child , ' say the Princess with a sorrowful sigh .
' oh , what an idea , mama ! ' rejoin both her daughter .
' just consider he !
why , at present ... '
and suddenly the old Princess 's voice unexpectedly quaver .
her daughter say no more and glance at one another .
' Mama always find something sad , ' this glance seem to say .
they do not know that pleasant as it be for she to stay with her daughter and necessary as she feel herself to be there , she suffer keenly , both on her own and on her husband 's account , since they give their last and favourite daughter in marriage and the family nest be leave empty .
' what be it , Agatha Mikhaylovna ? ' Kitty ask suddenly when the old woman stop in front of she with a look of mystery and importance .
' how about supper ? '
' oh , that be just right , ' say Dolly . ' you go and give your order , and I will hear Grisha his lesson .
he have not do anything today . '
' that be a rebuke for I !
no , Dolly ! I will go , ' say Levin , jump up .
Grisha , who have enter a High School , have some home - work to prepare during the summer holiday .
while still in Moscow Dolly have begin learn Latin with he , and on come to the Levins make it a rule to go over with he , at least once a day , the most difficult lesson – latin and arithmetic .
Levin offer to replace she , but having once hear Levin give the lesson and notice that he be not do it the same way as the master who have coach the boy in Moscow , she – though embarrassed and anxious not to offend Levin – tell he resolutely that the text - book must be follow in the master 's way and that she would rather give the lesson herself .
Levin be vex with Oblonsky for carelessly leave it to the boy 's mother to look after his lesson which she do not understand , instead of do it himself , and he be vex with the master also for teach the child so badly ; but he promise his sister - in - law to give the lesson in the way she wish .
so he go on teach Grisha not in his own way but accord to the book , and therefore do it half - heartedly and often miss a lesson .
so it have happen that day .
' no , I will go , dolly ! you stay here , ' he say .
' we shall do it all properly by the book . only when Steve come we shall go shoot and then I shall miss the lesson . '
and Levin go off to find Grisha .
Varenka speak in the same way to Kitty .
even in the Levins ' well - order household she find way to be of use . ' I will see about supper , ' she say , ' and you stay here ' ; and she rise to accompany Agatha Mikhaylovna .
' yes , do . I expect they could not get any chicken , but there be our own ... ' answer Kitty .
' Agatha Mikhaylovna and I will arrange it , ' and Varenka go out with the old woman .
' what a nice girl ! ' say the Princess .
' not nice , Mama , but so charming that there be no one else like she ! '
' so you be expect Stephen Arkadyevich to - night ? ' ask Koznyshev , evidently disinclined to join in a conversation about Varenka . ' it would be hard to find two brother - in - law more unlike , ' he go on with his subtle smile ; ' the one always on the move , live always in Society like a fish in water ; the other , our Constantine here , lively , quick , sensitive to everything , but as soon as he appear in Society either shut up altogether or flounder about absurdly like a fish on dry land ! '
' yes , he be very thoughtless , ' say the Princess to Koznyshev . ' I be just go to ask you to tell he that it be impossible for she ' – she indicate Kitty – ' to remain here , and that she must certainly come to Moscow .
he say , " get a doctor to come out here " ... '
' mama , he will do all that be necessary and will agree to everything , ' interpolate Kitty , annoy with her mother for ask Koznyshev 's opinion on such a matter .
in the midst of their conversation they hear the snorting of horse and the scraping of wheel on the gravel of the avenue .
Dolly have not have time to rise to go to meet her husband , before Levin have jump out of the window of the room below , where he have be teach Grisha , and have lift the boy out too .
' it be Steve ! ' shout Levin from under the balcony . ' we have finish , Dolly , do not worry ! ' he add , run like a boy to meet the carriage .
' be , ea , i d ; ejus , ejus , ejus , ' shout Grisha , hop down the avenue .
' and some one with he .
it must be Papa ! ' shout Levin , who have stop at the bend of the avenue . ' Kitty , do not come down those steep step , go round ! '
but Levin be mistaken in suppose that one of the man in the calèche be the old Prince .
when he come nearer he see , sit beside Oblonsky , a stout handsome young man wear a scotch bonnet with long ribbon stream behind .
it be Vasenka Veslovsky , a second cousin of the Shcherbatskys , a brilliant Petersburg - Moscow young man . ' a most splendid fellow and a passionate sportsman , ' as Oblonsky say when he introduce he .
not at all dismay by the disappointment he cause by appear instead of the old Prince , Veslovsky gaily greet Levin , remind he that they have meet before , and lift Grisha he catch he up into the vehicle over the pointer Oblonsky have bring with he .
Levin do not get in , but follow the calèche .
he be rather vex that the old Prince , whom he like more and more the well he know he , have not come , and vex because this Vasenka Veslovsky , a quite superfluous stranger , have come .
Veslovsky seem to he still more alien and superfluous when they arrive at the porch – at which the whole animate group of grow - up and child have gather – and he see Vasenka Veslovsky kiss Kitty 's hand with a particularly tender and gallant air .
' we , your wife and I , be cousin and old acquaintance , ' say Vasenka Veslovsky , once again give Levin 's hand a very , very hard squeeze .
' well , be there any game ? ' ask Oblonsky of Levin scarcely give himself time to say a word of greeting to everybody . ' he and I have the cruell intention ...
why , mama ! they have not be in Moscow since then ....
here , Tanya ! that be for you ! ...
please get it out of the calèche , behind there ... ' he be say to those about he . ' how much refreshed you be look , Dolly , dear ! ' he go on , kiss his wife 's hand again and hold it in his own while he pat it with the other hand .
Levin , who but a few moment before have be in the bright of spirit , be now look dismally at every one , dissatisfied with everything .
' whom be he kiss yesterday with those same lip ? ' he think as he look at Oblonsky caress his wife .
he look at Dolly , and be not pleased with she either .
' of course she do not believe in his love .
then why be she so pleased ?
disgusting ! ' think he .
he look at the Princess , who a few moment before have seem so nice , and do not like the way she welcome that beribboned Vasenka , as if to her own house .
even Koznyshev , who have also come out of the porch displease Levin by the feign friendliness with which he greet Oblonsky , whom , as Levin know , he neither like nor respect .
and Varenka too seem disgusting because of the manner in which she with her sainte nitouche [ Holy unapproachable . ] air make that gentleman 's acquaintance , while all her thought be how to get marry .
but most repugnant of all be Kitty , for the way she fall in with the gay tone of that gentleman , who appear to consider his arrival in the country a regular festival for everybody , and particularly objectionable be the smile with which she respond to his smile .
talk noisily , they all go into the house , but as soon as all be seat Levin turn and leave the room .
Kitty notice that something be wrong with her husband .
she try to seize an opportune moment to speak to he alone ; but he hurry away from she , say that he must go to the office .
it be long since the farm work have seem so important to he as it do that evening .
' for they it be always a holiday , ' he think , ' yet here we have work that be no holiday task , which can not be put off , and without which life be impossible . '
chapter VII
LEVIN do not RETURN until they call he to supper .
on the stair stand Kitty and Agatha Mikhaylovna , deliberate what wine to serve .
' but why all this fuss ?
serve the same as usual . '
' no ; Steve do not drink it ...
Kostya ! wait a moment – what be the matter with you ? ' say Kitty , hurry after he , but , without wait for she , he go away pitilessly with big stride to the dining - room , where he immediately join in the general animate conversation which be keep go by Vasenka Veslovsky and Oblonsky .
' well then , shall we go shoot to - morrow ? ' Oblonsky inquire .
' yes ! do let us go ! ' cry Veslovsky , change from one chair to another and sit sideways with one of his fat leg double under he .
' I shall be very pleased ! let us go .
and have you have any shooting this year ? ' Levin ask , gaze intently at this leg but with that pretend politeness of his which Kitty know so well , and which suit he so ill .
' I do not know whether we shall get any snipe , but there be plenty of woodcock , only one must go early .
will it tire you ?
be not you tired , Steve ? '
' I ! tired ?
I 've never be tired yet .
let us not go to bed at all !
let us go for a walk . '
' yes , really ! do not let we go to bed ! delightful ! ' chime in Veslovsky .
' oh , we be quite convinced that you can do without sleep and deprive other of theirs , ' say dolly with that scarcely perceptible irony with which she now generally address her husband . ' I think it be already time ...
I be go : I do not take supper . '
' oh no , stay here , Dolly dear ! ' say Oblonsky , step across to her side of the long supper - table . ' I have much more to tell you . '
' I do not expect you have any news . '
' do you know , Veslovsky have be to see Anna ?
and he be go there again .
you know it be only some seventy verst off .
I shall certainly go over .
Veslovsky , come here ! '
Vasenka come over to the lady , and take a seat beside Kitty .
' oh , do tell I ! you have be to see she ?
how be she ? ' ask Dolly .
Levin remain at the other end of the table , and while not cease to talk with the Princess and Varenka see that Oblonsky , Dolly , Kitty , and Veslovsky be carry on an animated and mysterious conversation .
moreover , he see his wife have an expression of serious feeling as she gaze attentively at Vasenka 's handsome face while he be vivaciously narrate something .
' it be very nice at their place , ' Vasenka be say , talk of Vronsky and Anna . ' of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one feel oneself to be in a family . '
' what do they mean to do ? '
' I believe they mean to go to Moscow for the winter . '
' how nice it would be for we to meet there !
when be you go , Stephen Arkadyevich ? ' ask Vasenka .
' I shall spend July with they . '
' and will you go ? ' Oblonsky ask his wife .
' I have long want to go and certainly shall go , ' reply Dolly . ' I know she , and be sorry for she .
she be a splendid woman .
I shall go alone when you be away , and will not inconvenience anyone .
it will even be well without you . '
' that be all right , ' reply he ; ' and you , Kitty ? '
' I ?
why should I go ? ' say Kitty , flush deeply and glance round at her husband .
' be you acquaint with Anna Arkadyevna ? ' Veslovsky ask she . ' she be very attractive . '
' yes , ' say Kitty , with a still deep blush , and she rise and go to her husband .
' so you be off shoot to - morrow ? ' she ask .
Levin 's jealousy during those few minute have go far , especially after the blush that have suffuse her face when speak to Veslovsky .
now as he listen to her question he interpret it in his own way .
strange as it seem to he when he remember it later , it now appear clear to he that she ask whether he be go shoot , only because she want to know whether he would give that pleasure to Vasenka Veslovsky , with whom he fancy she be already in love .
' yes , I be go , ' he answer in an unnatural voice that be disagreeable to himself .
' no , wait a day , because Dolly have see nothing of her husband . you could go the day after to - morrow , ' say she .
Levin now interpret her word thus : ' do not part I from he .
your going do not matter to I , but do let I enjoy the society of this charming young man ! '
' oh , if you wish it we will stay at home to - morrow , ' reply Levin with particular amiability .
meanwhile Vasenka , without the least suspicion of the suffering his presence be cause , rise from the table after Kitty and follow she , smile pleasantly .
Levin see that smile .
he grow pale and for a moment could hardly breathe .
' how dare he look like that at my wife ! ' he think , boil with rage .
' to - morrow then ?
please let us go ! ' say Vasenka , sit down and once more double his leg under he , as his habit be .
Levin 's jealousy rise still high .
already he fancy himself a deceive husband , necessary to his wife and her lover only to provide they with the comfort of life and with pleasure ...
but nevertheless he ask Vasenka in an amiable and hospitable manner about his shooting , his gun , his boot – and agree to go shoot next day .
happily for Levin the old Princess put a stop to his suffering by herself get up and advise Kitty to go to bed .
but he do not escape a fresh pang .
take leave of his hostess , Vasenka again want to kiss her hand ; but Kitty , blushing , draw away her hand , and say with naive rudeness , for which she be afterwards reprimand by her mother :
' that be not customary in our house . '
in Levin 's eye Kitty be to blame for having lay herself open to such behaviour , and still more to blame for so awkwardly show that it displease she .
' what be the good of go to sleep , eh ? ' say Oblonsky , who after the few glass he have drink at supper be in his pleasantest and most poetic mood . ' look Kitty ! ' he go on , point to the moon rise behind the lime - tree .
' how lovely ! Veslovsky , now be the time for a serenade !
do you know he have a fine voice ? we have be rehearse on the way .
he have bring some beautiful song – two new one .
he ought to sing they with Mlle Varenka . '
after the rest have separate for the night Oblonsky long walk in the avenue with Veslovsky , and their voice could be hear practise a new song .
Levin sit listen to they and frown , in an easy chair in his wife 's bedroom , meet her inquiry as to what be the matter with stubborn silence . but when at length she ask with a timid smile : ' be not you displeased about something connect with Veslovsky ? ' he give vent to his feeling and tell she everything . he himself be offend by what he be say , and this still far irritate he .
he stand before she , his eye glitter terribly under his frown brow , and press his powerful arm to his breast , as if try with all his might to restrain himself .
the expression of his face would have be hard and even cruel , but for a look of suffering which touch she .
his jaw tremble and his voice falter .
' understand that I be not jealous : that be a vile word !
I can not be jealous nor believe that ...
I can not say what I feel , but it be dreadful ...
I be not jealous , but I be offend and humiliate that anyone dare imagine – dare look at you with such eye ... '
' what eye ? ' say Kitty , try to remember as honestly as she could all the word and gesture of the evening and all their shade of meaning .
in the depth of her soul she be conscious that there have be something just at the moment when Veslovsky have follow she to the other end of the table , but she dare not own this even to herself , much less make up her mind to tell he and so increase his pain .
' and what attraction can there be about I as I be ... '
' ah ! ' he exclaim , seize his head in his hand . ' you have well not say anything ! ...
so , if you be attractive ... '
wait – listen ! ' she implore with a look of pained commiseration . ' what can you be think of , since man do not exist for I ?
they do not ! they do not ! ...
well then , would you like I not to see anybody ? '
for the first moment his jealousy have offend she : she be annoy that the least relaxation , even the most innocent , be forbid she ; but now she would gladly have sacrifice not merely trifle like that , but anything , to free he from the torment he be suffer .
' try and understand the horror and absurdity of my position , ' he continue in a despairing whisper . ' he be in my house , and strictly speak he have do nothing improper except by his free and easy manner and double up his leg !
he consider it to be in the good form , and therefore I have to be polite to he ! '
' come , Kostya , you be exaggerate ! ' remonstrate Kitty , at the bottom of her heart please by the force of love for she which be now express itself in his jealousy .
' the bad of it all be that you – be as you always be , and now when you be my holy of holy and we be so happy – so specially happy – suddenly this good - for - nothing come along ...
no , not good - for - nothing ... why be I abuse he ?
he do not concern I .
but our happiness , mine and your ... why ... ? '
' do you know , I see how it happen ... ' Kitty begin .
' how ? how ? '
' I notice your look while we be talk at supper . '
' yes , yes ! ' say he in a frightened tone .
she tell he what they have be talk about , and while she speak she be breathless with excitement .
Levin pause , and then after scrutinize her pale , frightened feature , suddenly clap his hand to his head .
' Kate , I have be torment you !
my darling , forgive I !
it be madness !
Kate , it be all my fault .
how could I torture myself like that about such nonsense ? '
' oh no ! I be sorry for you . '
' for I ?
I ?
because I be a madman !
but why should I make you wretched ?
it be dreadful to think that a mere stranger can destroy our bliss ! '
' of course , and that be what offend I ... '
' well then , I will keep he here all the summer on purpose . I will lavish attention on he , ' say Levin , kiss her hand .
' you will see !
to - morrow ... oh , but we be go out to - morrow . '
chapter VIII
NEXT DAY , before the lady be UP , the vehicle – a cart and a small trap – stand at the porch wait for the sportsman ; and Laska , having long ago make out that they be go shoot , after yelp and jump about to her heart 's content , be sit in the cart beside the coachman , regard the doorway whence the sportsman have not yet emerge , with excitement and with disapproval of the delay .
the first to appear be Vasenka Veslovsky in new boot reach half - way up his fat thigh , his green blouse girdle with a new cartridge - belt smelling of leather , and on his head the scotch bonnet with the ribbon . he carry a new english gun without a sling .
Laska jump down to he and greet he by leap about . in her own way she ask he how soon the other would come out but , receive no reply , she return to her post of expectancy and again sit motionless with her head turn sideways and one ear prick up .
at length the door open noisily and out bound , spin round and round in the air , Krak , Oblonsky 's yellow spot pointer , follow by Oblonsky himself with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth .
' quiet , quiet , Krak ! ' he say affectionately to the dog , which be throw its paw up against his stomach and chest and get they entangle in his game - bag .
Oblonsky be wear raw hide shoe , band of linen wound round his foot instead of sock , a pair of tattered trouser and a short coat .
on his head be the ruin of some sort of hat ; but his gun be of a new type , as neat as a toy , and his game - bag and cartridge - belt , though much worn , be of the good quality .
Vasenka have be ignorant that the stylishness of a real sportsman consist in be dress in rag but have one 's shooting implement of the very good quality .
he realize it now that he see Oblonsky in his rag , yet shine with his elegant , well - nurture , cheerful and gentlemanly figure , and resolve to follow his example next time .
' well , and where be our host ? ' he inquire .
' he have a young wife , ' answer Oblonsky , with a smile .
' yes , and such a charming one . '
' he be ready dress .
I expect he have run back to she . '
Oblonsky be right in this surmise .
Levin have run back to ask his wife once more whether she have forgive he his foolishness of the previous day , and also to entreat she ' for heaven 's sake ' to take care of herself ; and especially to keep far away from the child who at any moment might collide with she .
then he have to obtain a repeat assurance that she be not angry with he for go away for two day , and also to beg she to be sure next day to send a man on horseback with a note – only a word or two – that he might know that all be well with she .
it be always painful for Kitty to part from her husband for two day ; but see his animate figure , which seem particularly large and powerful in high shooting boot and white blouse , and the radiant exhilaration of the sportsman in he , incomprehensible to she , she forget her own pain in his gladness and part from he cheerfully .
' sorry , gentleman ! ' he say , run out on to the porch . ' be the lunch put in ?
why be the roan on the right ?
well , never mind !
Laska , be quiet ! go and lie down ! '
' let they out with the flock , ' he say , turn to the herdsman who be wait for order about some young sheep . ' sorry ! there be another rascal coming . '
Levin jump down from the cart where he have already seat himself , to meet the carpenter who be approach with a sazhen measure in his hand .
' there , you see ! you do not come to the office last night , and now you be detain I .
well , what be it ? '
' will not you have one more turning make ?
three more step will be enough , then we will get it exact .
it will be much more comfortable . '
' you should have obey I , ' say Levin with vexation . ' I tell you to set up the string - board first , and then to make the groove .
you can not alter it now .
do as I tell you and make a new one . '
the fact of the matter be that in the new wing that be be build the carpenter have spoil the staircase , having make it without calculate the elevation , so that when it be put in position all the step slope .
now he want to use that staircase , add three step to it .
' it will be much well so . '
' but where will it reach to with three additional step ? '
' excuse I , sir ! ' say the carpenter , smile contemptuously . ' it will reach to the exact spot .
it will just stretch from the bottom , you see , ' he go on with a persuasive gesture , ' and go up and up till it get there . '
' why , but three step will add to its length as well … where will it get to ? '
' it will go up from the bottom , I mean , and reach to the top , ' the carpenter repeat obstinately and persuasively .
' it will reach up to the wall and half - way to the ceiling ! '
' oh no , excuse I !
you see it will start from the bottom and go up and up and just reach . '
Levin pull out his ramrod and draw the staircase in the dust .
' there ! you see ? '
' as you please , ' say the carpenter , his eye suddenly brightening ; evidently he have at last understand . ' it seem we will have to make another . '
' well then , do as I tell you , ' Levin shout as he climb into the cart . ' drive on !
hold the dog , Philip ! '
Having- leave the care of home and estate behind he , Levin experience such a strong sense of the joy of life and anticipation , that he feel disinclined to talk .
besides , he experience that feeling of concentrated excitement which every sportsman know when approach the scene of action .
if his mind be occupy with anything now , it be only with question , whether they would find anything in the Kolpensky marsh , how Laska would compare with Krak , and how he would shoot to - day .
' if only I do not disgrace myself before that stranger !
if only Oblonsky 's shooting do not beat mine ! ' be his thought .
Oblonsky share these feeling and be likewise not talkative .
Vasenka Veslovsky alone chatter incessantly and merrily .
now , as he listen to he , Levin feel ashamed of his injustice toward he the day before .
Vasenka be really a good sort , simple , kind - hearted , and very jolly .
have Levin come across he when still a bachelor , they would have become intimate .
Levin do not quite like his holiday outlook on life and a sort of free and easy stylishness about he .
he seem to lay claim to a lofty and unquestionable importance because he have long nail , a Scotch bonnet , and everything else in keeping ; but one could forgive he this for the sake of his good - nature and breeding .
he attract Levin by his good education , his splendid accent in French and English , and by the fact that he belong to Levin 's own class .
Vasenka greatly admire the Don Steppe horse attach on the left . he go into rapture over it . ' how delightful it must be to gallop across the Steppes on a Steppe horse , eh ? do not you think so ? ' he say . he seem to picture a gallop on a Steppe horse as something wild and poetical ; nothing come of it , but his naïveté , in connection with his good look ; sweet smile , and graceful movement , be very attractive . whether it be that Veslovsky 's nature be congenial to he , or that , to expiate his sin of yesterday , he try to see only what be good in he , Levin like Veslovsky 's company .
when they have go about three verst , Veslovsky suddenly miss his cigar and pocket - book , and do not know whether he have lose they or leave they on his table .
he have three hundred and seventy rouble in the pocket - book , and therefore the matter could not be ignore .
' do you know , Levin , I will gallop home on this Don side - horse !
that will be grand , eh ? ' he say , prepare to get out .
' no , why ? ' reply Levin , conjecture that Veslovsky must weigh not less than fifteen stone . ' I will send the coachman . '
so the coachman ride back on the side - horse and Levin drive the other two himself .
chapter IX
' well , where be we go ?
tell we all about it , ' say Oblonsky .
' the plan be this . we be now go as far as Gvozdevo .
on this side of Gvozdevo there be a good marsh for snipe , and beyond it be splendid snipe marsh , and there be some double - snipe there too .
it be too hot now but we shall get there toward evening ( it be twenty verst ) , and will shoot there in the evening ; we will spend the night there , and then to - morrow we shall go to the big marsh . '
' and be there nothing by the way ? '
' there be , but it would delay we ; and besides , it be hot !
there be two nice little place , but we should hardly find anything there . '
Levin himself feel inclined to stop at those little place , but , as they be near home , they be always within his reach and they be small , so that there be not room enough for three person to shoot there .
so he stretch a point and say they would hardly find anything there .
when they come to a small marsh he wish to drive past it , but Oblonsky , with the practise eye of a sport man , notice the marshy place from the road .
' ought not we to go there ? ' he ask , point to the marsh .
' levin , do let we ! how delightful ! ' beg Vasenka Veslovsky , and Levin could not but agree .
scarcely have they stop before the dog fly toward the marsh , race one another .
' Krak ! ...
Laska ! '
the dog return .
' there be not room for three : I will wait here , ' say Levin , hope they would find nothing but the peewit , which the dog have raise , and which , sway as they fly , cry plaintively above the marsh .
' no !
come along , Levin , let us go together , ' say Veslovsky .
' really , there be not room !
back , Laska ! ...
Laska ! ...
you do not want two dog ? '
Levin remain with the trap and look enviously at the sportsman .
they go over the whole marsh , but there be nothing there except waterfowl and some peewit , one of which Veslovsky kill .
' there , you see I be not grudge you the marsh ! ' say Levin . ' it only mean lose time . '
' no , it be enjoyable all the same .
you see ? ' say Vasenka Veslovsky , climb awkwardly into the cart with his gun and the peewit . ' how well I get this one !
do not I ?
well , shall we soon get to the real place ? '
suddenly the horse start , Levin knock his head against the barrel of some one 's gun , and there be a report .
actually the report come first , but to Levin it seem the other way about .
what have happen be , that Vasenka Veslovsky when uncocke his gun have pull one trigger while uncocke the other side .
the charge go into the ground without hurt anyone .
Oblonsky shake his head and laugh reproachfully at Veslovsky .
but Levin have no heart to admonish he : for one thing because any reproach from he would appear to be provoke by the danger he have escape and by the bump which have rise on his head and also because Veslovsky be at first so naively grieve , and then laugh so good - naturedly and contagiously at their general perturbation , that Levin could not help join in the laugh .
when they reach the second marsh , which be of considerable size and would take a good deal of time Levin try to dissuade they from get out .
but again Veslovsky persuade he , and again , the marsh be a narrow one , Levin as a hospitable host remain with the vehicle .
Krak immediately go toward the hummock .
Vasenka Veslovsky be the first to follow the dog .
before Oblonsky have time to approach , a snipe rise .
Veslovsky miss it , and it fly over to an unmown meadow .
the bird be leave to Veslovsky .
Krak find it again and point . Veslovsky kill the bird and go back to the vehicle .
' now you go , and I will remain with the horse , ' he say .
a sportsman 's jealousy be begin to torment Levin .
he hand the rein to Veslovsky and go into the marsh .
Laska , who have long be whine plaintively , as if complain of the injustice , rush straight forward to a likely spot cover with hummock and know to Levin , where Krak have not yet be .
' why do not you stop she ? ' shout Oblonsky .
' she will not disturb they , ' answer Levin , pleased with his dog and hurry after she .
Laska become more and more intent on her pursuit , the near she get to the hummock .
a small marsh bird only divert her attention for an instant .
she describe a circle in front of the hummock , and begin another , but suddenly shudder and stop dead .
' come along , Steve ! ' Levin shout , feel his heart beat more rapidly , and suddenly , as if some bar have be withdraw from his strained sense of hearing , he lose the faculty of measure distance , and be strike by sound which reach he clearly but without any order .
he hear Oblonsky 's step and take they for the distant tramp of horse ; he hear the crumbling of a bit of hummock on which he step and which break off , pull out the grass by the root , and he take it for the noise of a snipe on the wing ; behind he he hear too a sound of splash for which he could not account .
pick his way , he approach the dog .
' seize it ! '
it be not a double - snipe but a snipe that rise before the dog .
Levin raise his gun , but just as he be take aim the splashing sound louder and near , mingle with Veslovsky 's voice shout strangely and loudly .
Levin know he be aim behind the snipe , but fire , nevertheless .
after make sure he have miss , he turn and see that the trap and horse be no long on the road but in the marsh .
Veslovsky , wish to watch the shooting , have drive into the marsh , where the horse have stick fast .
' what the devil bring he here ? ' mutter Levin to himself , turn back to the vehicle . ' why do you leave the road ? ' he ask drily , and call the coachman , set to work to get the horse out .
Levin be vex that he have be put off his shot , and that his horse have be lead into the bog , and especially that neither Oblonsky nor Veslovsky ( neither of whom know anything about harness ) help he and the coachman to unharness the horse and get they out of the bog .
without a word of reply to Vasenka , who be assure he that it be quite dry there , Levin work silently with the coachman to disengage the horse .
but when heat with the work , and see Veslovsky pull at the splashboard so strenuously and zealously that he actually wrench it off , Levin reproach himself with be influence by his sentiment of the previous day and with treat Veslovsky too coldly , and he try to efface his unfriendliness by particular courtesy .
when everything be in order and the vehicle have be bring back to the road , Levin give order for lunch to be serve .
' bon appetit ! Bonne conscience !
Ce poulet va tomber jusqu'au fond de mes botte , ' [ a good appetite ! a good conscience ! this chicken will go down to the bottom of my boot . ] remark Vasenka , who have brighten up again , repeat a french saying while he finish a second chicken .
' now our misfortune be end and all will be well .
but for my sin I must sit on the box .
do not you think so , eh ? no , no !
I be Automedona ' – wait and see how I will drive you ! ' he say , keep hold of the rein , in reply to Levin who want he to let the coachman drive . ' no , I must expiate my sin , and besides , it be delightful on the box , ' and he be off .
Levin be rather afraid Veslovsky would tire out the horse , especially the roan on the left , whom he do not know how to hold in ; but he could not resist Veslovsky 's high spirit , the song he sing all the way while sit on the box , the story he tell , and his representation of the english way of drive four - in - hand ; and after lunch they be all in the good of spirit when they reach the Gvozdevo marsh .
chapter x
VESLOVSKY drove so fast that they arrive at the marsh too soon , while it be still hot .
when they get to the real marsh , the object of their journey , Levin involuntarily wish to rid himself of Vasenka and go about unhindered .
Oblonsky evidently want the same thing , and on his face Levin notice the preoccupation , which every true sportsman feel before the shooting begin , and also a little good - natured cunning , characteristic of he .
' well , what shall we do ... ?
it be a splendid marsh , and I see there be hawk too , ' say Oblonsky , point at two large bird circle above the sedge . ' where there be hawk , there be sure to be game . '
' well then , gentleman , ' say Levin with a somewhat gloomy expression , pull up his boot and examine his percussion cap , ' you see that sedge ? ' he point to a dark - green little island in an enormous half - mown wet meadow stretch along the right bank of the river .
' the marsh begin here , just in front of we : you can see , where it be green ? from there it go to the right , where those horse be ; there be hummock , and double - snipe ; and it go round that sedge to the alder grove and down to the mill .
look ! just there , by that little bay .
that be the good place .
I once shoot seventeen grouse there ...
we will separate , go different way with the two dog , and will meet again by the mill . '
' well then , who go to the left and who to the right ? ' ask Oblonsky . ' the space on the right be broad , so you two go there together , and I will keep to the left , ' he add with affected indifference .
' good !
we will make the good bag , ' chime in Vasenka .
Levin could not avoid agree , and they separate .
they have hardly enter the marsh when both dog begin search together and start off toward a rusty - look spot in the marsh .
Levin know Laska 's method of search – careful and dubious ; he know it , and expect to see a flight of snipe .
' Veslovsky , walk beside I – beside I ! ' he whisper with bate breath to his comrade , who be splash in the water behind he , and the direction of whose gun , after the accidental shot by the Kolpensky marsh , involuntarily interested Levin .
' no , I do not want to hamper you . do not trouble about I . '
but Levin recollect Kitty 's parting word : ' mind , and do not shoot one another ! '
Nearer and nearer come the dog , keep out of each other 's way and each follow its scent . the expectation of find snipe be so strong that the smacking sound of his heel as he draw it out of the rusty mud sound to Levin like the cry of a bird , and he grasp the butt end of his gun firmly .
' Bang !
Bang ! ' he hear just above his ear .
Vasenka have fire into a flight of duck that be circle above the marsh far out of range and be at that moment fly straight toward the sportsman .
Levin have barely time to turn , before he hear the cry of a snipe , then another , and a third , and about eight more rise one after the other .
Oblonsky get one just as it be prepare to begin its zigzag flight , and the bird fall like a small lump into the bog .
Oblonsky quietly aim at another which be fly low toward the sedge , and at the moment of the report that one too fall , and it could be see jump up among the cut sedge , flutter with one white - edge uninjured wing .
Levin be not so lucky : he fire at the first snipe too near , and miss ; he follow it with his gun when it have already rise , but at that instant another rise just at his foot and divert his attention , and he miss again .
while they be reload another bird rise , and Veslovsky , who have finish reloading , fire two charge of small shot over the water .
Oblonsky pick up his two snipe and look with sparkling eye at Levin .
' well , now let us part , ' he say , and limp with his left foot , and hold his gun ready , he whistle to his dog and go off in one direction .
Levin and Veslovsky go in the other .
Levin , if his first shot be unsuccessful , always become excited and annoyed , and shoot badly all the rest of the day .
so it be this time .
there be a great many snipe .
they keep rise before the dog and at the very foot of the sportsman , and Levin might have recover himself ; but the oftener he fire the more he disgrace himself before Veslovsky , who be puff away merrily , in and out of range , never kill anything , but not in the least abash thereby .
Levin hurry , grow impatient , and become more and more flurried , until at last he fire almost without hope of kill anything .
even Laska seem to feel this .
her search become more and more indolent , and she look round at the sportsman as if in perplexity and with reproach .
Shot follow shot .
powder smoke envelop the sportsman , but in the large roomy net of the game - bag be only three light little bird , and even of these one have be shoot by Veslovsky , and another belong to they both .
meanwhile from the opposite side of the marsh come not frequent but , as it seem to Levin , significant report from Oblonsky 's gun , follow almost every time by a cry to the dog , ' Krak ! Krak !
that excite Levin still more .
the snipe unceasingly circle above the sedge .
the cry near the ground and sound in the air come incessantly from every side . the snipe that have rise previously and have be fly about descend in front of the sportsman .
not two but dozen of hawk now soar above the marsh .
having traverse more than half the marsh , Levin and Veslovsky come to a spot where the peasant ' meadow land be divide into long strip , the end abut on the sedge and separate by narrow line where the grass have be trodden down or cut .
half of those strip be already mown .
though there be little hope of find as many bird in the unmown strip as on the mown part , Levin , having promise Oblonsky to meet he , go with his companion far on over the mown and unmown strip .
' Hullo you sportsman ! ' shout one of several peasant who be sit beside a cart from which the horse have be take out . ' come and have something with we !
a drink of vodka ! '
Levin turn round .
' come along ! never mind ! ' shout a merry , bearded , red - faced peasant ; show a row of white tooth and hold aloft a greenish vodka bottle that glitter in the sunshine .
' Qu'est - ce qu'ils disent ? ' [ what be they say ? ] ask Veslovsky .
' they be call we to drink vodka .
I expect they have be divide the meadow .
I should go and have a drink , ' say Levin , not quite disinterestedly , hope that the vodka would tempt Veslovsky and lure he away .
' why be they offer it ? '
' oh , they be only make merry .
really , you should go to they .
it will interest you . '
' Allons ! C'est curieux ! '
' go along ! go , you will find the way to the mill ! ' cry Levin , and on look round be pleased to see Veslovsky make his way out of the marsh toward the peasant , stoop and stumble with his weary foot and hold his gun at arm 's length .
' you come too ! ' shout a peasant to Levin .
' come !
have a bite of pie ! '
Levin badly want a drink of vodka and a bit of bread .
he feel faint and could hardly drag his staggering leg out of the bog , and for an instant he be in doubt .
but the dog point .
his weariness vanish , at once he go easily through the marsh toward the dog .
just at his foot rise a snipe ; he fire and kill it . the dog continue pointing .
' fetch it ! '
another bird rise before the dog .
Levin fire , but that day he have no luck : he miss , and when he go to look for the bird he have kill , he could not find it .
he tramp all over the sedge , but Laska be incredulous of his having kill anything , and when he send she to look for it , she only make a pretence and do not really search .
even without Vasenka , whom he have blame for his ill - luck , thing go no well . here , too , be plenty of bird , but Levin miss one after another .
the slant ray of the sun be still hot ; his clothe be wet through with perspiration and stick to his body ; his left boot , full of water , be heavy and make a smacking sound ; down his face , grimy with powder , run drop of sweat ; a bitter taste be in his mouth , the smell of powder and rust be in his nose , and the perpetual cry of the snipe be in his ear ; he could not touch the barrel of his gun , they be so hot ; his heart thump with short , quick beat ; his hand tremble with excitement and his tired foot stumble as he drag they over the hummock and through the bog ; but still he go on and shoot .
at last , after a disgraceful miss , he throw his gun , and hat on the ground .
' no ! I must pull myself together , ' he think , pick up his gun and hat , call Laska to heel , and get out of the marsh .
when he reach a dry place he sit down on a hummock , take off his boot and empty it , then go back to the marsh , drink a little of the rusty water , wet the heated barrel and bathe his face and hand .
feel refreshed , he return to the spot where a snipe have settle , firmly resolve not to get flurried .
he try to keep calm , but the same thing happen again .
his finger pull the trigger before he have take aim .
thing go from bad to bad .
he have only five bird in his bag when he come out of the marsh by the alder grove where he be to meet Oblonsky .
before he see he , he see his dog .
Krak , quite black with smelly marsh slime , spring out from beneath the upturned root of an alder with the air of a conqueror and sniff at Laska .
behind Krak , in the shade of the alder , appear Oblonsky 's stately figure .
he come toward Levin red and perspiring , with his shirt unbuttoned , still limp as before .
' well ?
you have be fire a good deal ! ' he say with a merry smile .
' and you ? ' ask Levin .
but there be no need to ask , for he already see the full bag .
' oh , not bad ! '
he have fourteen bird .
' a famous marsh !
I expect Veslovsky be in your way .
one dog for two people be inconvenient , ' say Oblonsky , to soften his triumph .
chapter XI
when LEVIN and OBLONSKY REACHED the PEASANT 'S HUT where Levin use to put up , Veslovsky be there before they .
he sit in the middle of the room , hold with both hand to a bench , from which a soldier – a brother of the mistress of the house – be tug he by his slime - cover boot , and he be laugh with his infectiously merry laugh .
' I have only just get here .
Ils ont été charmants ! [ they be charming . ]
fancy ! they feed I and give I drink .
what bread – wonderful !
Délicieux !
and the vodka ... I never taste well !
and they positively would not take any money , and keep on say , " no offence ! " or something of that sort . '
' why should they take money ?
they be entertain you , you see !
do they keep vodka for sale ? ' say the soldier who have at last succeed in drag off one wet boot together with a blacken stocking .
despite the dirtiness of the hut , soil by the sportsman 's boot , the dirty dog that be lick themselves there , and despite the smell of bog and of powder and the absence of knife and fork , the sportsman drink tea and eat supper with a relish know only when one be out shoot .
wash and clean they betake themselves to a half - barn that have be sweep out and where the coachman have make up bed for the gentleman .
though it be already dusk , none of the sportsman want to sleep .
after fluctuate between recollection and story of the shooting , of dog , and of other shooting party , the talk reach a theme that interest all three .
a propos of Vasenka 's repeat expression of delight at the charm of the arrangement for the night , of the scent of hay , and of a break cart ( which he think be break , because its fore wheel have be remove ) , of the good - nature of the peasant who have treat he to vodka , and of the dog which lie each at its master 's foot , Oblonsky tell they about the delight of a shoot party with Malthus at which he have be last summer .
Malthus be a well - know railway magnate .
Oblonsky speak of the marsh which Malthus have lease in the Province of Tver , of how they be preserve , of the vehicle – dog - cart – in which the sportsman be drive thither , and of the marquee that be set up for lunch beside the marsh .
' I do not understand you , ' say Levin , rise on his heap of hay . ' how be it that those people do not disgust you ?
I understand that lunch with good claret be very nice , but be it possible that that very luxury do not disgust you ?
all those people , like the holder of our drink - monopoly formerly , get their money in way that earn contempt – they disregard that contempt – and afterwards , by mean of what they have dishonestly earn , they buy off that contempt . '
' perfectly true ! ' chime in Vasenka Veslovsky . ' perfectly true !
of course Oblonsky do it out of bonhomie , [ good - nature . ] and then other say , " well , if Oblonsky go there ... " '
' not at all ! ' Levin could hear that Oblonsky say this with a smile ; ' I simply do not consider he more dishonest than any of the rich merchant or nobleman .
they have all alike make money by work and intelligence . '
' yes , but what work ?
be it work to get a concession and resell it ? '
' of course it be work ' .
work in this sense , that if it be not for he and other like he , there would be no railway . '
' but it be not work such as that of a peasant or a savant . '
' grant ! but it be work in the sense that his activity yield result : railway .
but then you consider railway useless ! '
' that be quite another question . I be prepared to admit that they be useful .
but every acquisition out of proportion to the toil contribute be dishonourable . '
' but who be to decide the proportion ? '
' what be dishonourable be the acquisition by wrong mean : by cunning , ' say Levin , conscious that he could not clearly define the boundary between honesty and dishonesty ; ' such as the profit make by bank – the acquisition of enormous wealth without work , just as in the day of the drink - monopolist , – only the form have change . Le roi est mort , vive le roi !
[ the king be dead , long live the king . ]
hardly be the monopoly stop before railway and bank appear : other mean of acquire wealth without work . '
' well , all you say may be quite correct and ingenious ...
down , Krak ! ' exclaim Oblonsky to the dog that be scratch itself and turn round in the hay . he be obviously convinced of the truth of his own view and be therefore calm and deliberate .
' but you have not define the boundary between honest and dishonest work . I receive a big salary than my head clerk , though he know the work well than I do ; be that dishonest ? '
' I do not know ! '
' well then , I will tell you . that you receive for your work on the estate a profit , let us say of five thousand rouble , while our peasant host , work as he may , can not get more than fifty , be just as dishonest as my receive more than my head - clerk , or Malthus get more than a railway mechanic .
in fact I notice a quite unjustifiable hostility on the part of the public toward these man , and it seem to I that it be envy ... '
' oh , no ! that be not fair , ' say – Veslovsky . ' it can not be envy , and there be something not clean in their business . '
Levin break in . ' you say it be unjust for I to receive five thousand while the peasant get only fifty rouble : that be true .
it be an injustice and I feel it , but ... '
' yes , indeed .
why do we eat and drink , go shoot and do no work , while he be always , always work ? ' say Vasenka Veslovsky , evidently for the first time in his life thinking of this , and therefore speak quite genuinely .
' yes , you feel it , but you will not give he your estate , ' say Oblonsky , purposely provoke Levin .
a covert hostility have spring up between the two brother - in - law of late , as if be marry to two sister have evoke a sense of rivalry as to which of they would make the good of his life , and now this hostility find expression in the personal tone the discussion be assume .
' I do not give it away because nobody demand that of I , and if I want to I could not do it , ' reply Levin ; ' besides , there be no one to give it to . '
' give it to this peasant ; he will not refuse . '
' yes , but how should I set about it ?
should I go with he and execute a conveyance ? '
' I do not know ; but if you be convinced that you have no right ... '
' I be not at all convinced .
on the contrary , I feel that I have no right to give it away , that I have duty toward the land and toward my family . '
' no , allow I – if you consider such inequality unjust , why do not you act accordingly ? '
' but I do act so , only in a negative sense , in the sense that I will not seek to increase the inequality that exist between my position and theirs . '
' pardon I ! that be a paradox . '
' yes , that be a sophistical explanation , ' put in Veslovsky . ' oh , our host ! ' he say , address a peasant who have open the creak barn door and be enter . ' so you be not asleep yet ? '
' no , how can I sleep ?
I think you gentleman be asleep , but then I hear you chat .
I want to get a crook here .
she will not bite ? ' he ask , cautiously step with bare foot .
' and where be you go to sleep ? '
' we be go to pasture the horse to - night . '
' oh , what a night ! ' cry Veslovsky , gaze at the corner of the hut and the cart , visible in the faint after - glow through the now open barn - door as in a frame . ' just listen !
it be woman 's voice singe , and not at all badly . who be that singing , mine host ? '
' why , the maid - servant close by . '
' come , let us go for a walk !
we sha not sleep , you know .
Oblonsky , come along ! '
' if only one could ... go without get up ! ' say Oblonsky , stretch himself . ' it be delightful to lie still . '
' well , then I will go alone , ' say Veslovsky , rise quickly and put on his boot . ' good - bye , gentleman !
if it be jolly I will call you .
you have treat I to game , and I will not forget you ! '
' be not he a fine fellow ? ' say Oblonsky when Veslovsky have go out and the peasant have shut the door after he .
' yes , fine , ' answer Levin , continue to think of the question they have be discuss .
it seem to he that he have express his thought and feeling as clearly as he could , yet both the other – sincere and not stupid man – have agree that he be comfort himself with sophistry .
this perturb he .
' that be what it be , my friend !
one of two thing : either you confess that the exist order of Society be just , and then uphold your right ; or else own that you be enjoy unfair privilege , as I do , and take they with pleasure . '
' no ! if it be unjust , you could not use such advantage with pleasure ; at any rate I could not .
the chief thing for I be , not to feel guilty . '
' I say , have not we really well go ? ' put in Oblonsky , evidently weary of the mental strain . ' we can not go to sleep , you know .
come on , let us go ! '
Levin do not reply .
the word he have use when he say he be act justly in a negative sense occupy his mind .
' be it possible that one can act justly only in a negative sense ? ' he ask himself .
' have not the fresh hay a strong scent ! ' remark Oblonsky , sit up . ' nothing will make I sleep .
Vasenka be up to something out there .
do not you hear the laughter and his voice ?
Sha not we go too ?
let us ! '
' no , I be not go , ' answer Levin .
' maybe you be stop here on principle ? ' say Oblonsky , smile , as he search in the dark for his cap .
' no , not on principle , but why should I go ? '
' D'you know , you will bring trouble on yourself , ' say Oblonsky , having find his cap and get up .
' do not I see how you have place yourself with your wife ?
I hear you discuss as a question of first - rate importance , whether you should go away shoot for two day or not !
that be all very well for an idyll , but it can not last a lifetime .
a man should be independent – he have his own masculine interest .
a man must be manly , ' say Oblonsky , open the door .
' be that to say , he should court the maid - servant ? ' ask Levin .
' why not , if it be amusing ? Ça ne tire pas à consequence ! "
[ it be of no consequence . ]
my wife will not be the bad for it , and I shall have a spree .
the important part be to guard the sanctity of the home !
nothing of that kind at home ; but you need not tie your hand . '
' perhaps ! ' say Levin drily , and turn on his side . ' to - morrow one should start early , and I shall wake no one but shall start at daybreak . '
Venez vite ! ' [ gentleman , come quickly . ] come the voice of Veslovsky , who have come back .
' Charmante ! it be my discovery .
Charmante ! a perfect Gretchen , and I have already make her acquaintance .
really , very pretty ! ' he say in such an approving way , as if she have be make pretty specially for he , and he be satisfied with the maker .
Levin pretend to be asleep , but Oblonsky , having put on his slipper and light a cigar , leave the barn , and their voice soon die away .
Levin could not fall asleep for a long time .
he hear his horse chew hay ; then how the master and his eld son get ready and ride away for the night to pasture their horse ; then how the soldier settle down to sleep on the other side of the barn with his nephew , their host 's little son ; he hear the boy in his treble voice impart to his uncle his impression of the dog , which seem to he terrible and enormous ; then how the boy ask what those dog be go to catch , and he hear how the soldier reply in a hoarse and sleepy voice that the sportsman would go next day to the marsh and fire gun , add , to stop the questioning : ' Sleep , Vaska , sleep , or else look out ! ' soon the soldier himself begin to snore , and all be still except for the neighing of the horse and the cry of snipe .
' can it be only do in a negative sense ? ' Levin repeat to himself .
' well , what then ?
it be not my fault . ' and he begin to think of the come day .
' to - morrow I will start early in the morning , and make up my mind not to get excited .
there be quantity of snipe and double - snipe too .
and when I come back , there will be a note from Kitty .
well , perhaps Steve be right !
I be not manly with she , I have grow effeminate ...
well , what be to be do !
again , the negative answer . '
through his sleep he hear laughter and Veslovsky 's and Oblonsky 's merry talk .
he open his eye for an instant : they be stand chat in the open doorway , brightly light up by the moon which have now rise .
Oblonsky be say something about the freshness of a girl , compare she to a fresh kernel just take from its shell ; and Veslovsky be laugh his merry infectious laugh , and repeat something that have probably be tell he by a peasant : ' you would well strive for a wife of your own ! '
' gentlemen ! to - morrow at dawn ! ' Levin mumble drowsily , and fall asleep .
chapter xii
wake at early DAWN Levin try to rouse his companion .
Vasenka , lie prone with one stockinged leg outstretche , be sleep so soundly that it be impossible to get any answer out of he .
Oblonsky , half asleep , refuse to budge so early .
even Laska , sleep curl into a ring on a corner of the hay heap , get up reluctantly , and lazily stretch and adjust first one hind leg and then the other .
having put on his boot , take his gun , and carefully open the creak barn door , Levin go out into the street .
the coachman be asleep beside the vehicle , the horse be drowse .
only one of they be lazily eat oat , scatter they over the edge of the trough .
the outside world be still grey .
' why have you rise so early , my dear ? ' say his aged hostess , who come out of her hut , address he cordially as a good old acquaintance .
' why , I be off shoot , Granny !
can I get to the marsh this way ? '
' straight along at the back of the hut , past our threshing floor , my dear ; and then through the hemp - field . there be a path . '
carefully step with her bare sunburnt foot the old woman show he the way and lift for he one of the bar enclose the threshing - floor .
' go straight on , and you will step right into the marsh .
our lad take the horse that way last night . '
Laska run ahead gaily along the footpath , and Levin follow at a brisk pace , continually glance at the sky .
he do not wish the sun to rise before he reach the marsh .
but the sun do not tarry .
the moon , which be still give light when first he go out , now shine only like quicksilver ; the streak of dawn , previously so noticeable , now have to be look for ; what have be vague spot on the distant field be now clearly visible .
they be shock of rye .
still invisible in the absence of the sun , the dew on the tall scented hemp , from which the male plant have already be weed out , wet Levin 's leg and his blouse to above his belt .
in the translucent stillness of the morning the slight sound be audible .
a bee fly past his ear , whistle like a bullet .
he look close and see another and a third .
they all come from behind the wattle fence of an apiary , and fly across the hemp - field disappear in the direction of the marsh .
the path lead he straight to the marsh , which be recognizable by the mist rise from it , thick at one spot and thin at another , so that the sedge and willow bush look like islet sway in the mist .
at the edge of the marsh the peasant boy and man who have pasture their horse in the night lay , cover with their coat , having fall asleep at daybreak .
not far from they , three hobble horse be move about .
one of they clatter its shackle .
Laska walk beside her master , seek permission to run forward and look around .
when he have pass the sleep peasant and reach the first wet place , Levin examine his percussion cap and allow Laska to go .
one of the horse , a well - fed three - year - old chestnut , on see the dog , start , lift his tail , and snort .
the other horse , also alarm , splash through the water with their hobble foot , make a sound of slapping as they draw their hoof out of the thick clayey mud , and begin flounder their way out of the marsh .
Laska pause with a mocking look at the horse and a questioning one at Levin .
he stroke she , and whistle as a sign that she might now set off .
joyful and preoccupy , Laska start run across the bog , which sway beneath her foot .
on enter the marsh Laska at once perceive , mingle with the various familiar smell of root , marsh , grass , and rust , and with the unfamiliar smell of horse dung , the scent of the bird – those strong - smell bird that excite her most – spread all over the place .
here and there among the marsh moss and dock , that smell be very strong ; but it be impossible to decide in which direction it grow strong or weak .
to find this out it be necessary to go far away in the direction of the wind .
hardly aware of her leg under she , Laska run at a strained gallop , which she could cut short at a bind should occasion arise , to the right , away from the morning breeze which blow from the east , and then turn to windward .
after inhale the air with distended nostril she know at once that not their scent only but they themselves be there , before she , not one only but many of they .
she slacken speed .
they be there , but she could not yet determine exactly where .
to decide this she begin work round in a circle , when her master 's voice disturb she .
' Laska ! here ! ' he say , point to the other side .
she stand still , as if ask he whether it would not be well to continue as she have begin ; but he repeat his command in a stern voice , point to a group of hummock cover with water where there could not be anything .
she obey , pretend to search in order to please he , go over the whole place and then return to the first spot and immediately scent they once more .
now that he be not hinder she , she know what to do , and without look where she be step , stumble over hummock and get into the water , but surmount the obstacle with her flexible strong leg , she begin the circle which be to make everything clear .
their scent come to she more and more pungently , more and more distinctly , and all at once it become quite clear to she that one of they be here behind a hummock , five step in front . she stop and her whole body grow rigid .
the shortness of her leg prevent she see anything before she , but from the scent she could tell that it be not five pace off .
she stand , more and more conscious of its presence and enjoy the anticipation .
her rigid tail be outstretche , only its very tip twitch .
her mouth be slightly open and her ear erect .
one of her ear have turn back while she run , she breathe heavily but cautiously , and yet more cautiously look toward her master , turn her eye rather than her head .
he , with his familiar face but ever terrible eye , came stumble over the hummock , but unusually slowly , she think .
so it seem to she , though in reality he be run .
notice Laska 's peculiar manner of search , as lower her body almost to the ground she appear to be drag her broad hind paw , he know that she be point at snipe , and while run up to she he pray inwardly for success , especially with the first bird .
having come close up to she he look beyond , and from his height see with his eye what she have find with her nose .
in the space between the hummock , at a distance of about a sazhen , he could see a snipe .
it sit with turn head , listen .
then , just spread its wing slightly and fold they again , it vanish round a corner with an awkward backward jerk .
' seize it ! seize it ! ' shout Levin , push Laska from behind .
' but I can not go , ' think she . ' where should I go to ?
from here I scent they , but if I go forward I shall not know what I be do , nor where they be nor who they be . '
but now he push she with his knee , say in an excited whisper , ' seize it , Laska ! seize it ! '
' well , if he wish it , I will , but I can no long answer for anything , ' . think Laska , and rush forward at full tilt between the hummock .
she now scent nothing more , but only see and hear without understand anything .
with lusty cry and a sound of the beating of concave wing so peculiar to the double - snipe , a bird rise ; and , follow the report of the gun , it fall heavily on its white breast ten pace from the first spot into the wet bog .
another rise behind Levin without wait to be disturb by the dog .
by the time Levin have turn toward it , it have already go far : but his shot reach it .
after fly some twenty foot , the second snipe rise at an acute angle , and then , turn round and round like a ball , fall heavily on a dry spot .
' now , thing will go right , ' think Levin , put the warm fat snipe into his bag . ' eh , Laska dear , will thing go right ? '
when , having reload , Levin go on again , the sun , though still invisible because of the cloud , have already rise .
the moon have lose all her brilliancy and gleam like a little cloud in the sky . not a single star be any long visible .
the marsh grass that have glitter like silver in the dew be now golden .
the rusty patch be like amber .
the bluish grass have turn yellowish green .
Marsh bird be busy in the dew - bespangle bush that cast long shadow beside the brook .
a hawk have wake up and be sit on a haycock , turn its head from side to side and look discontentedly at the marsh .
crow be fly to the field , and a barefooted boy be already drive the horse toward an old man , who have get up from beneath his coat and sit scratch himself .
the powder - smoke spread like milk over the green grass .
a boy run up to Levin .
' uncle , there be duck here yesterday ! ' he shout , follow Levin from afar .
and Levin feel increase pleasure in kill three snipe one after another within sight of this little boy , who express his approval .
the SPORTSMAN 'S SAYING , that if you do not miss your first beast or first bird your day will be successful be justify .
tired , hungry , and happy , Levin return to his lodging toward ten o'clock , having tramp some thirty verst and bring nineteen red - fleshed bird , besides a duck tie to his girdle , as there be no room for it in his bag .
his comrade have waken long before and have have time to get hungry and have their breakfast .
' wait a bit – wait a bit ! I know there be nineteen , ' say Levin , for a second time count his snipe and double - snipe , which no long have the important appearance they bear when on the wing but be twist , dry up , smear with congeal blood , and have head bent to one side .
the tale be correct , and Oblonsky 's envy gratify Levin .
he be also pleased that on his return he find a messenger have already arrive from Kitty with a note .
' I be quite well and happy .
if you be uneasy about I , you may be quite at ease now .
I have a new bodyguard – Mary Vlasyevna , ' this be the midwife , a new and important personage in the Levins ' family life .
' she have come to see I and find I perfectly well , and we have get she to stay till your return .
all be cheerful and well , so do not hurry and even stay another day if your sport be good . '
these two joy , his successful shooting and the news from his wife , be so great that two small unpleasantness which occur after the shooting be easy to disregard .
one be that the chestnut side - horse , having evidently be overwork the previous day , be off its feed and seem dull .
the coachman say it have be strain .
' it be overdriven yesterday , Constantine Dmitrich , ' he say . ' why , it be drive hard for ten verst ! '
the other unpleasantness , which for a moment upset his good - humour , but about which he afterwards laugh heartily , be that of all the provision that Kitty have provide so lavishly that it have appear impossible to eat they up in a week , nothing be leave !
return tired and hungry from his sport , Levin so vividly anticipate the pie that on approach his lodging he seem to smell and taste they – just as Laska scent game – and he immediately order Philip to serve they .
it turn out that there be no pie , nor even any chicken leave !
' he have an appetite ! ' say Oblonsky , laugh and point to Vasenka Veslovsky . ' I do not suffer from lack of appetite , but he be quite surprising ... '
' well , it can not be help ! ' say Levin , look morosely at Veslovsky . ' well then , bring I some beef , Philip ! '
' the beef have be eat , and the bone be give to the dog , ' answer Philip .
Levin be so annoyed that he say crossly : ' something might have be leave for I ! ' and he feel inclined to cry . ' well then , draw the bird and stuff they with nettle , ' say he in a tremble voice to Philip , try not to look at Veslovsky ; ' and ask at least for some milk for I . '
later on , when he have satisfy his hunger with the milk , he feel ashamed of having show annoyance to a stranger , and he begin laugh at his hungry irritation .
in the evening they again go out shooting , when Veslovsky also kill some bird , and late at night they set off home .
the drive back be as merry as the drive out have be .
Veslovsky now sing , now recall with relish his adventure with the peasant who entertain he with vodka and say ' no offence ! ' ; and now his night exploit with hazel nuts , the maid - servant , and the peasant who ask he whether he be marry , and learn that he be not say : ' do not hanker after other man 's wife , but above all thing strive to get one of your own ! '
these word particularly amused Veslovsky .
' altogether I be awfully pleased with our outing ...
and you , Levin ? '
' I be very pleased with it too , ' say Levin sincerely . he be glad not only to feel no hostility such as he have feel at home toward Vasenka Veslovsky ; but on the contrary to feel quite friendly toward he .
NEXT MORNING at TEN o'clock Levin , having make the round of his farm , knock at the door of Vasenka 's room .
' Entrez ! ' shout Veslovsky . ' excuse I – I have only just finish my ablution , ' he say smile , as he stand before Levin in his underclothe .
' please do not mind I , ' and Levin sit down by the window . ' have you sleep well ? '
' like the dead !
what a day it be for shoot ! '
' what do you drink , tea or coffee ? '
' neither .
nothing before lunch .
I be really quite ashamed .
I expect the lady be already up ?
it would be fine to go for a walk now .
you must show I your horse . '
when they have walk round the garden , visit the stable , and even do some gymnastic together on the parallel bar , Levin return to the house with his guest and enter the drawing - room with he .
' we have fine sport , and so many new impression ! ' say Veslovsky , approach Kitty , who sit at the samovar . ' what a pity lady be deprive of that pleasure . '
' well , what of it ? he must say something to the mistress of the house , ' Levin tell himself .
he again think he notice something in the smile and conquer air with which the visitor address Kitty .
the Princess , who sit at the other end of the table with Mary Vlasyevna and Oblonsky , call Levin and begin a conversation about move to Moscow for Kitty 's confinement and take a house there .
just as all the preparation for the wedding have be disagreeable to he , since they detract by their insignificance from the majesty of what be take place , so now the preparation for the come birth , the time of which they be reckon on their finger , appear to he yet more offensive .
he always try not to hear those conversation about the good way of swaddle the future infant , try to turn away and not see those mysterious endless knit binder and three - cornered piece of linen , to which Dolly attach special importance , – and all the rest .
the birth of a son ( he be certain it would be a son ) which they promise he , but in which he still could not believe , so extraordinary do it seem , appear to he on the one hand such an immense and therefore impossible happiness , and on the other such a mysterious event , that this pretend knowledge of what be go to happen and consequent preparation as for something ordinary , something produce by human being , seem to he an indignity and a degradation .
but the Princess do not understand his feeling and attribute his unwillingness to think and speak about it to thoughtlessness and indifference , and therefore give he no peace .
she be now commission Oblonsky to see about a house , and call Levin to she .
' I do not know at all , Princess .
do as you think well , ' he say .
' you must decide when you will move . '
' I really do not know .
I know that million of child be bear without Moscow and without doctor ; then why ... '
' well , if that be ... '
' oh no ! just as Kitty like . '
' but one can not talk to Kitty about it !
why , do you want I to frighten she ?
you know , only this spring Nataly Golitsin die because she have a bad doctor . '
' I will do whatever you tell I to , ' he reply morosely .
the Princess begin tell he , but he do not listen to she .
though this talk with the Princess upset he , it be not that but what he see by the samovar which make he morose .
' no , this be impossible , ' he think , glance occasionally at Vasenka , who be lean toward Kitty and say something , with his handsome smile , and at Kitty , blushing and agitated .
there be something impure in Vasenka 's attitude , his look and his smile .
Levin even see something impure in Kitty 's pose and smile ; and again the light fade from his eye .
again , as on the previous occasion , he suddenly , without the least interval , felt throw from the height of happiness , peace , and dignity into an abyss of despair , malevolence , and degradation .
again everyone and everything become revolt to he .
' well then , Princess , let it be just as you think well , ' he say , turn away .
' " Heavy be the Autocrat 's crown ! " [ a quotation from Pushkin 's Boris Godunov . ] say Oblonsky banteringly , evidently allude not only to the Princess 's conversation , but also to the cause of Levin 's agitation , which he have observe . ' how late you be to - day , Dolly ! '
they all rise to greet Dolly .
Vasenka only rise for a moment , and with the absence of politeness to woman which be characteristic of modern young man , barely bow and again continue his conversation , laugh at something .
' Masha have wear I out .
she sleep badly and be terribly capricious this morning , ' say Dolly .
the conversation with Kitty begin by Vasenka again deal with Anna and with the question whether love can rise above social condition .
this conversation be unpleasant to Kitty and upset she , both by the subject itself and by the tone in which it be carry on , but especially because she already know the effect it would have on her husband .
but she be too simple and innocent to know how to stop it , or even how to conceal the superficial pleasure which this young man 's evident attention cause she .
she wish to put an end to the conversation , but do not know how .
whatever she do , she know , would be notice by her husband and would all be construe into something wrong .
and really when she ask Dolly what be the matter with Masha , and Vasenka – wait for this uninteresting conversation to finish – gaze indifferently at Dolly , her question seem to Levin a piece of unnatural and disgusting cunning .
' well , shall we go to pick mushroom to - day ? ' say Dolly .
' yes , please , and I will go too , ' say Kitty , and blush .
she have be go , out of politeness , to ask Vasenka whether he would go with they , but refrain . ' where be you go , Kostya ? ' she ask her husband with a guilty look as he pass by with resolute step .
this guilty look confirm all his suspicion .
' the mechanic arrive during my absence and I have not yet see he , ' he answer , without look at she .
he go downstairs , but have not have time to leave his study before he hear his wife 's familiar footstep follow he with imprudent rapidity .
' what be it ? ' he ask drily . ' we be busy . '
' excuse I , ' she say address the german mechanic , ' I have a few word to say to my husband . '
the German be about to go out , but Levin say to he :
' do not trouble ! '
' the train be at three ? ' ask the German , ' I must not miss it . '
Levin do not answer he but go out with his wife .
' well , what have you to say to I ? ' he ask in French .
he do not look she in the face and do not notice that she ( in her condition ) stand with her whole face twitch , and have a pitiful , crush appearance .
' I ... I want to tell you that it be impossible to live like this – it be torture ! ' she mutter .
' the servant be there , in the pantry , ' he say angrily ; ' do not make a scene . '
' well then , come here ! '
they be in a passage , and Kitty wish to enter the next room ; but the english governess be there , give Tanya a lesson .
' well , come into the garden ! '
in the garden they come upon a man weed a path , and without any long consider that the man see her tear - stain eye and his excited face , or that they look like people run away from some calamity , they go on with rapid foot , feel that they must speak out and convince each other , must be alone together , and thereby both escape from the torment both be experience .
' one can not live like this !
it be torture !
I suffer and you suffer .
why ? ' she ask , when they have at last reach a secluded seat at the corner of the lime - tree avenue .
' only tell I this : be there something improper , impure , degradingly horrid in his tone ? ' he say , stand in front of she in the same attitude as on that night , with fist press his chest .
' there be , ' she say in a tremble voice . ' but , Kostya , do you really not see that I be not to blame ?
from the time I come down I want to adopt a tone ... but these people ...
why do he come ?
how happy we be ! ' she say , choke with sob that shake the whole of her expand body .
the gardener see with surprise that , though nothing have be pursue they and there have be nothing to run away from , and they could not have find anything very blissful on that seat , they pass he on their way back to the house with quieted and beam face .
after see his wife UPSTAIRS , Levin go to Dolly 's part of the house .
she too be in great trouble that day .
she be walk up and down the room and speak angrily to a little girl who stand howl in a corner :
' you will stand in that corner all day , and will have your dinner alone , and you will not see a single doll , and I will not have a new frock make for you ! ' she be say , unable to think of any more punishment for the child .
' oh , she be a horrid child ! ' she cry , address Levin . ' where do these vile tendency in she come from ? '
' but what have she do ? ' ask Levin rather indifferently . he want to consult she about his own affair , and be annoy at having come at an inopportune moment .
' she and Grisha go away among the raspberry cane and there ...
I can not even tell what she do .
one regret Miss Elliot a thousand time – this one do not look after the child ; she be only a machine ...
Figurez vous que la petite ... '
[ fancy ! the child ... ]
Dolly tell Masha 's crime .
' that prove nothing ; it be not a bad tendency but just mischievousness , ' Levin comfort she .
' but you be upset about something ?
why have you come ? ' ask Dolly , ' what be happen there ? '
and by the tone of her question Levin know that it would be easy for he to tell she what he mean to say .
' I be not there , but have be in the garden alone with Kitty .
we have quarrel for the second time since ...
Steve 's arrival . '
dolly gaze at he with wise , comprehend eye .
' well , tell I , hand on heart – be there ... not on Kitty 's side , but on that gentleman 's ... a tone which might be unpleasant ... not unpleasant but terrible and offensive to a husband ? '
' that be to say ... how be I to put it ? ... stop !
stop in the corner ! ' she say turn to Masha , who notice a scarcely perceptible smile on her mother 's face be turn round . ' the world would say he have behave as all young man behave .
Il fait la cour à une jeune et jolie femme , [ he pay court to a young and pretty woman . ] and a Society husband should be merely flatter by it . '
' yes , yes , ' answer Levin gloomily , ' but you notice it ? '
' not I only , but Steve too .
he tell I frankly after tea : " Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour à Kitty ! " [ I believe Veslovsky be court Kitty a wee bit . ]
' well , all right , now I be tranquil .
I will turn he out , ' say Levin .
' what do you mean ? have you go mad ? ' exclaim Dolly , terrify .
' what do you mean , Kostya ? consider ! ' she go on , laugh .
' you can go to Fanny now , ' she say to Masha . ' no , if you like I will tell Steve and he will take he away .
one can say you be expect visitor . certainly , he do not suit your household ... '
' no , no ; I will do it myself . '
' but you will quarrel ? '
it will be a pleasure for I , a real pleasure , ' say Levin with sparkling eye . ' come , forgive she , Dolly !
she will not do it again , ' he plead , refer to the small culprit , who have not go to Fanny but stand hesitatingly before her mother , look up from under her brow , expect and try to catch her eye .
dolly look at she .
the little girl burst into sob and bury her face in her mother 's lap , and Dolly place her thin tender hand on the child 's head .
' what be there in common between we and he ? ' think Levin , as he go in search of Veslovsky .
pass through the hall he order the calèche to be harness to drive to the station .
' one of the spring break yesterday , ' reply the footman .
' well , then , the taranta , but make haste !
where be the visitor ? '
' he have go to his room . '
Levin find Vasenka , who have unpack his portmanteau and spread out his new song , try on a pair of legging and prepare for a ride .
whether there be something unusual in Levin 's face , or whether Vasenka himself feel that ' le petit brin de cour ' which he have start be out of place in this family , he be embarrassed ( as far as be permissible to a man in Society ) by Levin 's entry .
' you wear legging for ride ? '
' yes , it be much clean , ' say Vasenka , place his fat foot on a chair , fasten the bottom hook , and smile good - naturedly .
he be certainly a good - natured fellow , and Levin feel sorry for he and ashamed of himself as a host when he notice the shyness of Vasenka 's look .
on the table lie a piece of stick which when do gymnastic that morning they have break , try to raise the warped parallel bar .
Levin take the broken stick and begin pull off the splintered bit at the end , not know how to begin .
' I wish ... ' he stop , but suddenly remember Kitty and all that have happen , he say , look Veslovsky firmly in the eye : ' I have order the horse to be harness for you . '
' what do you mean ? ' Vasenka begin with surprise . ' to drive where ? '
' for you , to the station , ' answer Levin gloomily , pull off splinter .
' why , be you go away , or have anything happen ? '
' it happen that I be expect visitor , ' reply Levin more rapidly , break off the splintered bit of the stick with his strong finger . ' or no , I be not expect visitor and nothing have happen , yet I request you to leave .
you may explain my impoliteness as you please . '
Vasenka draw himself up .
' I ask you for an explanation , ' he say with dignity , having at last understand .
' I can not give you an explanation , ' say Levin softly and slowly , try to control the trembling of his jaw , ' and it be well for you not to ask . '
as the splinter be now all break off , Levin grasp the thick end in his finger and split the stick , carefully catch a piece as it fall .
probably the sight of those strained arm , those muscle he have feel that morning when do gymnastic , and the gleam eye , low voice and trembling jaw , convince Vasenka more than the word .
he shrug his shoulder , smile contemptuously , and bow .
' can I not see Oblonsky ? '
the shrug and smile do not irritate Levin .
' what else be there for he to do ? ' he think .
' I will send he to you at once . '
' what be this nonsense ? ' say Oblonsky , when he have hear from his friend that he be be drive out of the house , and have find Levin in the garden , where he be walk while await the departure of his visitor . ' Mais c'est ridicule !
what fly have sting you ?
Mais c'est du dernier ridicule . [ but it be ridiculous ...
but it be the height of absurdity . ] why , do you imagine that if a young man ... '
but the place where the fly have sting Levin be evidently still sore , for he again grow pale when Oblonsky wish to refer to his reason , and hastily interrupt he .
' please do not explain my reason !
I can not do otherwise !
I feel ashamed before you and before he .
but I do not think it will grieve he much to go away , and his presence be unpleasant to I and to my wife . '
' but he feel insult ! Et puis , c'est ridicule ! '
[ and besides , it be absurd !
' and I feel insult and torture !
and I have do nothing wrong and do not deserve to suffer . '
' well , I never expect this of you !
on peut être jaloux , mais à ce point c'est du dernier ridicule ! ' [ one may be jealous , hut to such a point it be the height of absurdity ! ]
Levin turn away from he quickly and go far down one of the avenue , where he continue walk up and down alone .
soon he hear the rattle of the taranta , and through the tree see Vasenka , seat on hay ( unluckily the taranta have no seat ) , with the scotch bonnet on his head , jolt over the rut as he be drive down the other avenue .
' what do that mean ? ' wonder Levin when the footman run out of the house and stop the vehicle .
it be on account of the mechanic , whom Levin have quite forget .
he bow and say something to Veslovsky , then climb into the taranta , and they drive away together .
Oblonsky and the Princess be indignant at Levin 's conduct .
he himself feel not only that he be in the high degree ridiculous , but quite guilty and disgraced ; but recall what he and his wife have suffer , and ask himself how he would act another time , he answer that he would do just the same again .
in spite of all this , by the end of the day every one , except the Princess , who could not forgive Levin 's conduct , become unusually animate and merry , like child after a punishment or adult after an oppressive official reception ; so that in the Princess 's absence they talk about Vasenka 's expulsion as of an historic event .
Dolly , who have inherit her father 's gift of put thing humorously , make Varenka collapse with laughter when she relate for the third or fourth time , with ever fresh humorous addition , how she be just put on some new ribbon in the visitor 's honour , and be about to go into the drawing - room , when suddenly she hear the clatter of the old cart .
' and who be inside the cart ? who but Vasenka , with his scotch bonnet and his song and his legging , sit on the hay ! '
' at least you might have let he have the brougham ! ...
and then I hear : " stop ! "
" well , " think I , " they 've relent . "
' I look again and they have pop a fat German in with he and be drive they both off ... !
and so my ribbon be all in vain ... '
DOLLY carry out HER intention of go to see Anna .
she be very sorry to grieve her sister and to do anything that be unpleasant to Levin : she feel that they be right in not wish to have anything to do with Vronsky , but feel it her duty to visit Anna and show she that the alter circumstance could not change her own feeling toward she .
not to depend on the Levins for that journey , Dolly send to the village to hire horse ; but Levin hearing of it come and reproach she .
' why do you think your going would be unpleasant to I ?
even if it be unpleasant it would be still more unpleasant for I if you do not use my horse , ' he say . ' you never tell I definitely that you be go .
and that you should hire horse in the village be , in the first place , unpleasant to I , and besides that , they will undertake the job but will not get you there .
I have horse , and if you do not wish to grieve I , you will take they . '
Dolly have to agree , and on the appointed day Levin have four horse ready for his sister - in - law , as well as a relay – having make it up of farm and ride horse – not at all a handsome team , but one able to get she to her destination in a day .
as horse be also require for the Princess , who be leave , and for the midwife , it be inconvenient to Levin ; but he could not be so inhospitable as to allow Dolly to hire horse while stay with he . besides , he know that the twenty rouble she would have have to pay for the journey be of importance to she , and he feel her distress financial embarrassment as if they have be his own .
act on Levin 's advice , Dolly start before daybreak .
the road be good , the calèche comfortable , the horse run merrily , and on the box beside the coachman instead of a footman sit an office clerk whom Levin send with she for safety .
dolly doze , and only wake up when approach the inn where the horse be to be change .
after drink tea at the prosperous peasant 's house where Levin have stop when on his way to Sviyazhsky 's , and converse with the woman about their child and with the old man about Count Vronsky , of whom he speak very highly , Dolly continue her journey at ten o'clock .
at home her care of the child never give her leisure to think , but now , during this four hour ' drive , all the thought she have repress crowd suddenly into her mind , and she review her whole life from all side as she have never do before .
her thought seem strange to she .
at first she think of the child , about whom , though the Princess and especially Kitty ( she have great faith in Kitty ) have promise to look after they , she still feel anxious .
' if only Masha do not get into mischief again , or a horse do not kick Grisha , and if only Lily 's digestion do not get more upset . '
but then question of the present begin to be replace by those of the immediate future .
she begin think that she would have to move into another house in Moscow for the winter , have the drawing - room furniture re - cover , and a new winter coat make for the eld girl .
then come problem of a more remote future : how she should start her child in the world .
' with the girl it will be comparatively easy , ' she think , ' but how about the boy ?
' at present I be teach Grisha , but that be only because I be free now and not have a baby .
of course Steve be not to be count on , but with the help of kind people I shall start they somehow ... but in case of another child ... '
and it occur to she how inaccurate it be to say that woman 's curse be the bringing forth of child .
' travail , that be nothing – but pregnancy be torture , ' she think , with her last pregnancy and the death of her infant in mind .
and she recall a talk she have have with a young woman at the halting - place .
in answer to the question whether she have any child , the good - look young peasant wife have cheerfully reply :
' I have one girl , but God release I . I bury she in Lent . '
' and be you very sorry ? ' ask Dolly .
' what be there to be sorry about ?
the old man have plenty of grandchild as it be .
they be nothing but worry .
you can not work or anything .
they be nothing but a tie ... '
this answer have seem horrible to Dolly , despite the good - natured sweetness of the young woman 's look , but now she could not help recall it .
in those cynical word there be some truth .
' altogether , ' she think , look back at the whole of her life during those fifteen year of wedlock , ' pregnancy , sickness , dullness of mind , indifference to everything , and above all disfigurement .
even Kitty – young , pretty Kitty – how much plainer she have become ! and I when I be pregnant become hideous , I know .
travail , suffering , monstrous suffering , and that final moment ... then nursing , sleepless night , and that awful pain ! '
dolly shudder at the mere thought of the pain she have endure from sore nipple , from which she have suffer with almost every baby .
' then the child 's illness , that continue anxiety ; then their education , nasty tendency , ' ( she recall little Masha 's delinquency among the raspberry cane ) , ' lesson , Latin ...
it be all so incomprehensible and difficult .
and above all , the death of these child ... ' and once more the cruel memory rise that always weigh on her mother - heart : the death of her last baby , a boy who die of croup ; his funeral , the general indifference show to the little pink coffin , and her own heartrending , lonely grief at the sight of that pale little forehead with the curly lock on the temple , and of the open , surprised little mouth visible in the coffin at the instant before they cover it with the pink lid ornament with a gold lace cross .
' and what be it all for ?
what will come of it all ?
I myself , without have a moment 's peace , now pregnant , now nursing , always cross and grumble , torment myself and other , repulsive to my husband – I shall live my life , and produce unfortunate , badly bring - up and beggared child .
even now , if we have not spend this summer with Kostya and Kitty , I do not know how we should have manage .
of course Kostya and Kitty be so considerate that we do not feel it ; but it can not go on so .
they will have child of their own and will not be able to help we ; as it be , they be put to inconvenience .
be Papa , who have keep scarcely anything for himself , to help we ? ...
so I can not even give the child a start myself , unless it be with other people 's help and with humiliation .
well , suppose the good : that none of the other child die , and that I somehow succeed in bring they up ; at the very good they will only escape be ne'er - do - well .
that be all I can hope for .
and for this , so much suffering and trouble ...
my whole life ruin ! '
again she remember what the young woman have say . again the recollection be repulsive to she , but she could not help admit that there be a measure of crude truth in the word .
' be it much far , Michael ? ' she ask the clerk , to dispel the thought that frighten she .
' they say it be seven verst from this village . '
the calèche be descend the village street to a small bridge .
a crowd of merry peasant woman , with ready - twisted sheaf - binder hang from their shoulder , be cross the bridge , chatter loudly and merrily .
the woman stop on the bridge , inquisitively scrutinize the calèche .
all the face turn toward she seem to Dolly to be healthy and bright , mock she with their joy in life .
' everybody live , everybody enjoy live , ' dolly continue her reflection when , after pass the peasant woman and having reach the top of the incline , they be go at a trot , the old calèche comfortably sway on its soft spring , ' and I , release as from a prison , from the world that be kill I with its worry , have only now collect my thought for a moment .
everybody live : these woman , and my sister Nataly , and Varenka , and Anna to whom I be go , – only not I !
' and they be all down on Anna !
what for ?
be I well than she ?
I at least have a husband whom I love .
not as I wish to love , but still I do love he ; but Anna do not love hers .
in what be she to blame ?
she wish to live .
God have implant that need in our soul .
it be quite possible I might have do the same .
I do not even now know whether I do well to listen to she at that terrible time when she come to I in Moscow .
I ought then to have leave my husband and begin life anew .
I might have love and be love , the real way .
and be it well now ?
I do not respect he .
I need he , ' she think of her husband , ' and I put up with he .
be that any well ?
I be still attractive then , still have my good look , ' she go on , feel that she want to see herself in a glass .
she have a small travel look - glass in her bag , and feel inclined to take it out ; but glance at the back of the coachman and the clerk who sat sway beside he , she know she would feel ashamed if one of they chance to look round , and she do not take it out .
yet even without look in the glass she think it might not be too late even now . she remember Koznyshev , who be particularly amiable to she ; Steve 's friend the good - natured Turovtsin , who have help her nurse her child when they have scarlet fever and who be in love with she ; and then there be a very young man who consider – so her husband tell she as a joke – that she be the handsome of the three sister .
and the most passionate and impossible romance occur to Dolly 's fancy .
' Anna have act excellently , and I at any rate shall not reproach she at all .
she be happy , she be make another happy and be not drag down as I be , but she be no doubt as fresh , clever , and frank as ever , ' she think ; and a roguish smile pucker her lip , chiefly because while think of Anna 's romance she invent an almost similar romance for herself with an imaginary , collective man who be in love with she .
like Anna , she confess everything to her husband , and Oblonsky 's surprise and embarrassment at the announcement make her smile .
wrap in such dream she reach the turning from the high road , which lead to Vozdvizhensk .
the COACHMAN stopped the horse and look round toward a field of rye on the right , where some peasant sit beside a cart .
the clerk wish to get down , but then , change his mind , shout authoritatively and beckon to a peasant .
the breeze , which they have feel while drive , die down when they stop ; and horsefly settle on the sweat horse , which angrily try to brush they off .
the metallic sound of a scythe be hammer beside the cart cease , and one of the peasant rise and come toward the calèche .
' look at he , stick fast ! ' shout the clerk angrily at the peasant , who be slowly step with bare foot over the rut of the dry , hard - trodden road . ' be quick ! '
the curly - headed old man , with a piece of bast tie round his head , his rounded back dark with perspiration , increase his speed , approach the calèche and put his sunburnt arm on the mud - guard .
' Vozdvizhensk ? the squire 's house ?
to the Count 's ? ' he repeat . ' there !
when you have pass that bend turn to the left , and go right down the drive and you will knock up straight against it .
but whom do you want ? the squire ? '
' be they at home , my good man ? ' say dolly vaguely , not know how to speak of Anna even to a peasant .
' I expect so , ' say the peasant , shift from one bare foot to the other , leave in the dust a clear imprint of it with its five toe . ' I expect so , ' he repeated , evidently desire a talk .
' More visitor arrive yesterday . visitor !
what do you want ? ' he turn toward a lad beside the cart who be shout something .
' quite right – a while ago they pass by here on horseback , to see the reaper .
now they must be at home again .
and who may you be ? '
' we have come a long way , ' reply the coachman , climb back on to the box .
' and you say it be not far ?
' I tell you it be just there , where you come out , ' and he go on rub his hand along the mud - guard of the calèche .
a young , healthy - look , thick - set lad also come up .
' could I get a job , harvesting ? ' he ask .
' I do not know , my lad . '
' there , you see , when you 've turn to the left you will knock straight up against it , ' say the peasant , evidently unwilling to let they go , and wish to talk .
the coachman start , but hardly have they go round the corner when the peasant call out to they . ' stop , friend ! stop ! ' shout two voice . the coachman pull up .
' they be come !
here they be themselves ! ' cry the man , point to four person on horseback and two in a char - a - banc come along the road .
it be Vronsky with his jockey , Veslovsky and Anna on horseback , and Princess Barbara with Sviyazhsky in the char - a - banc .
they have be for a ride and to see some newly - arrived reap machine in operation .
when the calèche pull up , the rider advance at a foot pace .
Anna ride in front beside Veslovsky .
she ride quietly , on a small sturdy english cob with a close - cropped mane and short tail .
dolly be strike by the beauty of her head with lock of black hair which have escape from under her top hat , her full shoulder and fine waist in the black riding - habit , and her whole quiet graceful bearing .
for a moment she think it improper for Anna to be ride on horseback .
in Dolly 's mind the idea of horse - riding for woman be connect with youthful coquetry , which in her opinion be unsuitable to a woman in Anna 's position ; but when she see she close she at once became reconcile to Anna 's riding .
despite her elegance , everything about Anna – her bearing , clothe and movement – be so simple , quiet , and dignify that nothing could seem more natural .
at Anna 's side , on a heated bay cavalry horse , stretch out his fat leg and evidently admire himself , ride Vasenka Veslovsky , wear the Scotch bonnet with wave ribbon , and Dolly could not repress a merry smile on recognize he .
behind they ride Vronsky .
he be on a thoroughbred dark bay , which be obviously heat by gallop , and he be use the rein to hold it in .
behind he ride a short man dress as a jockey .
Sviyazhsky and the Princess Barbara in a new char - a - banc , to which be harness a tall trotter , be overtake the rider .
Anna 's face immediately brighten into a joyful smile when she recognize Dolly in the little figure press back in a corner of the old calèche .
she give an exclamation , start in her saddle and touch her horse into a gallop .
ride up to the calèche she jump unaided from the horse and , hold up her habit , run toward Dolly .
' it be what I think , but dared not expect !
what a pleasure !
you can not imagine how delighted I be ! ' she cry , now press her face to Dolly 's and kiss she , now lean back to gaze smilingly at she .
' what joy , Alexis ! ' she say , turn to Vronsky , who have dismount and be walk toward they .
Vronsky , take off his grey top hat , approach Dolly .
' you can have no idea how pleased we be that you have come ; ' he say , put peculiar emphasis into his word , while a smile expose his strong white tooth .
Vasenka Veslovsky , without dismount , raise his cap and welcome the visitor , joyously wave his ribbon above his head .
' that be the Princess Barbara , ' Anna say , in answer to Dolly 's glance of inquiry when the char - a - banc come near .
' oh ! ' say Dolly , and her face involuntarily express displeasure .
the Princess Barbara be her husband 's aunt , she have long know she and do not respect she .
she know that the Princess Barbara have all her life be a hanger - on to various rich relative , but that she – a relation of Dolly 's husband – should now be live in the house of Vronsky , a perfect stranger to she , offend Dolly .
Anna notice Dolly 's expression , become confused , blush , let her habit slip out of her hand , and stumble over it .
Dolly walk up to the char - a - banc and coldly greet Princess Barbara .
she be acquaint with Sviyazhsky too .
he ask how his friend the crank be get on with his young wife , and having glance at the ill - match horse and the patch mud - guard of the calèche , offer the lady seat in the char - a - bane .
' I will go in that vehicle , ' he say . ' my horse be a quiet one , and the Princess drive splendidly . '
' no , stay as you be , ' say Anna , who have also come up , ' and we two will go in the calèche , ' and give Dolly her arm she lead she away .
Dolly be dazzle by the elegant equipage of a kind she have never see , by the beautiful horse and the elegant , brilliant person about she .
but what strike she most be the change that have take place in Anna , whom she know and love .
another woman less observant , who have not know Anna before , especially one who have not think the thought that be in Dolly 's mind on the way , would not have notice anything peculiar in Anna .
but now Dolly be strike by that temporary beauty which only come to woman in moment of love , and which she now find in Anna 's face .
everything in that face : the definiteness of the dimple on cheek and chin , the curve of her lip , the smile that seem to flutter around her face , the light in her eye , the grace and swiftness of her movement , the fullness of her voice , even the manner in which she reply – half - crossly , half - kindly – to Veslovsky , who ask permission to ride her cob that he might teach it to lead with the right leg when gallop – everything about she be peculiarly attractive , and she seem to know it and to be glad of it .
when the two woman take their seat in the calèche , both be seize with shyness .
Anna be abash by the attentively inquire look dolly bent upon she ; dolly , after Sviyazhsky 's remark about the ' vehicle , ' feel involuntarily ashamed of the ramshackle old calèche , in which Anna have take a seat beside she .
Philip the coachman and the clerk share that feeling .
the clerk , to hide his embarrassment , bustle about , help the lady in , but Philip become morose and make up his mind not to be impose upon by this eternal superiority .
he smile ironically as he glance at the raven trotter of the char - a - banc , decide that that horse be good for nothing but a promenade , and could not do its forty verst on a hot day at one go .
the peasant beside the cart all get up and look with merry curiosity at the visitor , make their own comment .
' glad they be : have not meet for a long time ! ' say the curly - haired old man with the piece of bast tie round his head .
' there now , Uncle Gerasim ! that raven gelding would cart the sheaf in no time . '
' just look !
be that a woman in breech ? ' cry one , point to Vasenka Veslovsky , who be get into the side - saddle .
' no , it be a man .
see how easily he jump up ! '
' I say , lad ! it seem we be not to have a sleep ! '
' what chance of a sleep to - day ? ' say the old man blink at the sun . ' it be too late !
take your scythe and let us get to work . '
ANNA be look at DOLLY 's thin wan face with its dust - fill wrinkle , and wish to tell she just what she think : that Dolly look thin and bad . but remember that her own look have improve and that Dolly 's eye have tell she so , she sigh and begin talk about herself .
' you be look at I , ' she say , ' and wonder whether I can be happy , place as I be ?
well , what do you think ?
I be ashamed to confess it , but I ... I be unforgivably happy !
something magical have happen to I : like a dream when one feel frightened and creepy , and suddenly wake up to the knowledge that no such terror exist .
I have waken up !
I have live through suffering and terror , but for a long time past – especially since we come here – I have be happy ! ... ' she say , look at dolly timidly and with a questioning smile .
' I be so glad ! ' answer Dolly , smile , but in a cold tone than she intend . ' I be very glad for your sake .
why do you not write to I ? '
' why ? ...
because I do not dare ... you forget my position . '
' to I ?
you dare not ?
if only you know how I ...
I consider ... '
dolly want to tell Anna what she have be think that morning , but for some reason it now seem out of place .
' however , we will talk about all that later . what be this ?
what be all those building ? quite a town ! ' she ask , to change the subject , point to the red and green roof visible above a live green wall of acacias and lilacs .
but Anna do not answer she .
' no , no ! what view do you take of my position ?
what do you think ? what ? ' she ask .
' I imagine ... ' dolly begin ; but at that moment Vasenka Veslovsky , who have get the cob to lead with the right foot , gallop past in his short jacket , bump heavily on the leather of the side - saddle .
' it go all right , Anna Arkadyevna ! ' he shout .
Anna do not even glance at he ; but it still seem to Dolly out of place to begin to discuss this big subject in the calèche , so she briefly reply :
' I do not take any view . I always love you , and if one love , one love the whole person as he or she be , and not as one might wish they to be . '
Anna , turn her eye away from her friend and screw they up ( this be a new habit of hers and unfamiliar to Dolly ) , grow thoughtful , try thoroughly to grasp the meaning of the remark .
having evidently understand it in the sense she wish , she glance at Dolly .
' if you have any sin , ' she say , ' they would all be forgive you for come here and for those word ! '
and Dolly notice that tear have start to her eye .
she silently press Anna 's hand .
' but what be those building ?
what a lot of they there be ! ' say she after a moment 's silence , repeat her question .
' they be the employee ' house , the stud farm , and the stable , ' answer Anna . ' and here the park begin .
everything have be neglect , but Alexis have have it all renovate .
he be very fond of this estate , and – a thing I never expect of he – he be quite enthusiastic in manage the place .
but of course his be such a talented nature !
whatever he take up , he do splendidly !
he be not only not bored , but passionately engrossed in his occupation .
he have grow into a first - rate , prudent landlord , as I recognize ; in farming matter he be even stingy , but only in farming .
where it be a question of thousand he do not count they , ' she say , with that joyous sly smile with which woman often speak of the secret characteristic , discover by they alone , of the man they love . ' do you see that big building ?
it be the new hospital .
I think it will cost more than a hundred thousand rouble .
that be his hobby just now .
and do you know why he start it ?
the peasant ask he to let they some meadow at a reduced rent , I think , and he refuse , and I reproach he with be stingy .
of course it be not that alone , but one thing with another cause he to start that hospital , to show , you know , that he be not stingy .
C'est une petitesse [ it be a pettiness . ] if you like , but I love he the well for it !
and now you will see the house in a moment .
it be his grandfather 's , and it have not be alter at all on the outside . '
' how fine ! ' say Dolly , look with involuntary surprise at a handsome house with a row of column stand out among the variously tint foliage of the old tree in the garden .
' it be fine , be it not ?
and from upstairs the view be wonderful . '
they drive into a gravelled courtyard surround by flower , where two man be make a border of rough porous stone round a well - fork flower - bed and stop beneath a roof portico .
' ah , they 've already arrive , ' say Anna , look at the horse that be be lead away from the front door . ' do not you think that one be a beautiful horse ?
it be a cob , my favourite ...
bring it here , and get I some sugar .
where be the Count ? ' she ask the two elegant footman who have rush out . ' ah , there he be ! ' she go on , see Vronsky and Veslovsky come out to meet she .
' in which room be you put the Princess ? ' Vronsky ask in French , address Anna , and without wait for her answer he once more welcome Dolly , and this time he kiss her hand . ' the large room with the balcony , I should think . '
' oh no ! that be too far off !
the corner room will be well , we shall see more of one another there .
well , let us go in , ' say Anna , who have give her favourite horse the sugar the footman have bring .
' Et vous oubliez votre devoir,'[And you forget your duty . ] say she to Veslovsky , who be also stand in the portico .
' Pardon ! J'en ai tout plein les poche , ' [ pardon I , my pocket be full of it . ] he answer with a smile , plunge his finger into his waistcoat pocket .
' Mais vous venez trop tard , ' [ but you have come too late . ] she say , wipe with her handkerchief the hand which the horse have wet as it take the sugar .
Anna turn to Dolly . ' how long can you stay ?
only a day !
that be impossible . ' ' I have promise ... and the child , ' answer Dolly , feel embarrassed because she have to get her bag out of the calèche and because she know her face be cover with dust .
' no , dolly darling ! ...
well , we will see .
come ! come along ! ' and Anna lead the way to Dolly 's room .
it be not the grand room that Vronsky have suggest , but one for which Anna apologize to Dolly .
and this room need an apology be full of luxury , such as Dolly have never live among , which remind she of the good hotel abroad .
' well , dearest ! how happy I be ! ' say Anna , who in her riding - habit have sit down for a moment beside Dolly .
' tell I about yourself .
I meet Steve in pass , but he can not tell I about the child .
how be my pet , Tanya ?
grown a big girl , I suppose ? '
' yes , quite big , ' answer dolly shortly , and be herself surprised that she could talk so coldly about her child . ' we be very comfortable at the Levins ' , ' she add .
' there now ! have I only know that you do not despise I ... ' say Anna , ' you should all have come to we .
you know Steve and Alexis be old and great friend , ' she add and suddenly blush .
' yes , but we be so comfortable ... ' answer Dolly with embarrassment .
' however , my joy make I talk nonsense !
but really , dear , I be so glad to see you , ' say Anna , kiss she again . ' you have not yet tell I how and what you think about I , and I want to know everything .
but I be glad that you will see I just as I be .
above all , I do not want you to think that I wish to prove anything .
I do not want to prove anything : simply I wish to live , not hurt anyone but myself .
I have a right to do that , have I not ?
however , that need a long talk , and we will talk it all well over later .
now I will go and dress and will send you the maid . '
LEFT alone , DOLLY survey the ROOM with a housewife 's eye .
all she see when drive up to the house and pass through it , and now in her room , give she the impression of abundance and elegance and of that novel european luxury which she have read about in english novel , but have never yet see in Russia in the country .
everything be new , from the new french wall - paper to the carpet which cover the whole floor .
the bed have a spring and an overlay mattress , with a specially shape bolster and small pillow with silk slip .
the marble washstand , the dressing - table , the couch , the table , the bronze clock on the mantelpiece , the curtain and door - hanging be all costly and new .
the smart lady 's maid with hair stylishly do , and wear a dress more fashionable than Dolly 's , who come to offer her service , be as new and expensive as everything else in the room .
Dolly find her politeness , tidiness , and attention pleasant , but do not feel at ease with she ; she be ashamed to let she see the patched dressing jacket , which as ill - luck would have it she have bring by mistake .
she be ashamed of the very patch and darn on which she at home pride herself .
at home it be clear that six jacket require twenty - four arshin of nainsook at sixty - five kopek , which come to more than fifteen rouble , besides the trimming and the work ; and she have save all that .
but before the maid she feel not exactly ashamed but uncomfortable .
dolly feel much relieve when Annushka , whom she have know a long time , come into the room .
the smart maid have to go to her mistress , and Annushka remain with Dolly .
Annushka be evidently very pleased that the lady have come , and chatter incessantly .
dolly notice that she want to express her opinion of her mistress 's position , and especially of the Count 's love of and devotion to Anna , but dolly carefully stop she whenever she begin to speak about that subject .
' I grow up with Anna Arkadyevna ; she be dear to I than anything .
be it for we to judge ?
and how he seem to love ... '
' well then , have this wash if possible , ' interrupt Dolly .
' yes , ma'am !
we have two woman always specially keep for wash small thing , and the clothe be all do with a machine .
the Count go into everything himself .
what a husband ... '
dolly be glad when Anna come in and thereby put an end to Annushka 's chatter .
Anna have change into a very simple lawn dress .
dolly look carefully at this simple dress .
she know what such simplicity mean and cost .
' an old acquaintance , ' say Anna , point to Annushka .
Anna be now no long embarrassed .
she be free and at her ease .
dolly see that she have quite get over the impression produce by her arrival , and have adopt a superficial tone of equanimity which seem to close the door that lead to the compartment where her feeling and intimate thought be keep .
' well , and how be your little girl , Anna ? ' ask Dolly .
' Annie ? ' ( so she call her daughter Anna ) .
' quite well .
greatly improve .
would you like to see she ?
come , I will show she to you ...
I 've have such trouble with the nurse , ' she begin .
' we have an italian wet nurse for she .
good , but so stupid !
we want to send she back , but the child be so used to she that we be still keep she . '
' well , and how have you arrange ... ? ' dolly begin , mean to ask what name the little girl would bear ; but see a sudden frown on Anna 's face she change the question and say : ' how have you arrange ? have you already wean she ? '
but Anna have understand .
' that be not what you be go to ask ? ...
you wish to ask about her name ?
be I not right ?
it trouble Alexis .
she have no name .
that is , her name be Karenina , ' say Anna , screw up her eye till only the meeting lash could be see . ' however , we will talk about all that later , ' say she , suddenly brightening .
' come ! I will show she to you .
Elle est très gentille , [ she be very sweet . ] and can crawl already . '
in the nursery the luxury noticeable in the rest of the house strike Dolly still mare strongly .
here be perambulator order from England , an apparatus to teach a baby to walk , a specially construct piece of furniture like a billiard - table for the baby to crawl on , swing , and bath of a new special kind .
all these be English , strongly make , of good quality , and evidently very expensive .
the room be large , very lofty and light .
when they enter the little girl be sit in her chemise in a little arm - chair at a table , have her dinner of broth which she be spill all over her little chest .
a russian nursemaid be feed the child and evidently herself eat also .
neither the wet nurse nor the head nurse be to be see : they be in the next room , where one could hear they talk in a peculiar French , the only tongue in which they could converse .
on hear Anna 's voice a smart tall Englishwoman with an unpleasant face and an impure look come into the room , rapidly shake her fair curl , and at once begin excuse herself , though Anna have not accuse she of anything .
to each word of Anna 's the Englishwoman quickly repeat , ' yes , my lady ! ' several time .
the dark - browe , dark - haired , rosy little girl , with her firm ruddy little body cover with goose flesh , please Dolly very much , despite the severe expression with which she regard the new visitor ; she even feel a little envious of the child 's healthy appearance .
the way the little girl crawl also greatly pleased dolly .
not one of her child have crawl like that .
the baby look wonderfully sweet when she be put down on the carpet , with her little frock tuck up behind .
glance round at the grow - up people with her large radiant black eye , like a little animal , evidently pleased that she be be admire , she smile , and turn out her foot , energetically support herself on her hand , draw her low limb forward , and then again advance her hand .
but Dolly do not at all like the general atmosphere of that nursery , especially the english nurse .
only by the fact that a nice woman would not have accept a post in such an irregular household as Anna 's could dolly explain to herself how Anna , with her knowledge of character , could have engage for her little girl such an unpleasant and fast Englishwoman .
besides that , from a few word she hear , Dolly at once understand that Anna , the wet nurse , the head nurse , and the baby do not get on with one another , and that the mother 's appearance be not a usual occurrence .
Anna wish to get the baby her toy and could not find it .
but the most astonishing thing be that when ask how many tooth the baby have , Anna make a mistake and know nothing of the two late tooth .
' I feel it hard sometimes that I be as it be superfluous here , ' say Anna on leave the nursery , lift her train to avoid the toy that lie beside the door . ' it be quite different with the first one . '
' I think – on the contrary , ' say dolly timidly .
' oh no !
you know I have see he , Serezha , ' say Anna , screw up her eye as if peer at something far off . ' however , we will talk about that afterwards .
would you believe it , I be just like a starve woman to whom a full meal have be serve , and who do not know what to begin on first ?
the full meal be you and the talk I be go to have with you , and which I could not have with anyone else , and I do not know on what to begin first !
Mais je ne vous ferai grace de rien !
[ but I shall not let you off anything ! ]
I must speak out about everything . yes , I must give you a sketch of the people you will meet here , ' she begin .
' I will begin with the woman : Princess Barbara .
you know she , and I know your and Steve 's opinion of she .
Steve say the one aim of her life be to prove her superiority to Aunt Catherine Pavlovna . that be quite true ; but she be kind , and I be very grateful to she .
there be a moment in Petersburg when I need a chaperon .
just then she turn up .
really she be kind .
she make my position much easy .
I see you do not realize all the difficulty of my position ... there in Petersburg , ' she add . ' here I be quite tranquil and happy ; but about that later on .
I must continue the list .
then there be Sviyazhsky : he be a Marshal of Nobility and a very decent fellow , but he want something from Alexis .
you see , with his mean , now that we have settle in the country , Alexis can have great influence .
then there be Tushkevich : you have meet he , he be always with Betsy .
now he have be depose and have come to we .
as Alexis say he be one of those man who be very agreeable if one take they for what they wish to appear , et puis , il est comme il faut , [ and then , he be good form . ] as the Princess Barbara say .
then there be Veslovsky ... you know he .
he be a nice boy , ' she say , and a roguish smile pucker her lip . ' what outrageous affair be that with Levin ?
Veslovsky tell Alexis , and we simply can not believe it .
Il est très gentil et naïf , ' [ he be very nice and naive . ] she add with the same smile . ' men need distraction , and Alexis need an audience ; so I value all this company .
thing must be lively and amusing here , so that Alexis shall not wish for anything new !
then you will also see our steward . he be a german , very good , and know his business .
Alexis think highly of he .
then there be the doctor , a young man , not exactly a Nihilist , but – you know , eat with his knife ... but a very good doctor .
then there be the architect ... une petite cour ! '
[ a little court ! ]
' well , here ' DOLLY for you , Princess ! you want so much to see she , ' say Anna as she and Dolly come out onto the large stone verandah where in the shade , before an embroidery frame , the Princess Barbara sat embroider a cover for an easy - chair for Count Vronsky . ' she say she will not have anything before dinner , but will you order lunch ? I will go and find Alexis and bring they all here . '
the Princess Barbara receive Dolly affectionately but rather patronisingly , and at once begin explain that she be stay with Anna because she have always love she more than do her sister Catherine Pavlovna , who have bring Anna up , and that now , when everyone have throw Anna over , she consider it her duty to help Anna through this transitional and most trying period .
' her husband will give she a divorce , and then I shall go back to my solitude ; but at present I can be of use and I fulfil my duty , however hard it may be , not like other ...
and how kind you be , and how well you have do to come !
they live like the good of married couple . it be for God to judge they , not for we .
think of Biryuzovsky and Avenyeva ...
and even Nikandrov ! and how about Vasilev with Mamanova , and Lisa Neptunova ... ?
no one say anything against they ?
and in the end they be all receive again ...
and then c'est un intérieur si joli , si comme il faut . Tout - à - fait à l'anglaise .
on se réunit le matin au breakfast et puis on se sépare .
[ it be such a pretty , such a refined home . quite in the english style .
we assemble for breakfast , and then we separate . ]
every one do what he like till dinner .
dinner be at seven . Steve do very well to send you .
he must keep in with they .
you know , through his mother and brother he can do anything .
and then they do much good .
have he not tell you about his hospital ? Ce sera admirable .
[ it will be admirable . ] everything come from Paris . '
their conversation be interrupt by Anna , who have find the man in the billiard - room and bring they back with she to the verandah .
as there be still plenty of time before dinner , and the weather be beautiful , several different way of pass the next two hour be propose .
there be a great many way of spending time at Vozdvizhensk , all differ from those at Pokrovsk .
' Une partie de [ a game of . ] lawn tennis , ' suggest Veslovsky with his pleasing smile . ' we will be partner again , Anna Arkadyevna ! '
' no , it be too hot : well let us walk through the garden and go for a row , to let Darya Alexandrovna see the bank , ' suggest Vronsky .
' I will agree to anything , ' say Sviyazhsky .
' I think Dolly will find a walk the pleasant , will not you ?
and then we can go in the boat , ' say Anna .
all agree to this .
Veslovsky and Tushkevich go to the bathing - house , promise to get the boat ready there and to wait for the other .
two couple – Anna with Sviyazhsky and Dolly with Vronsky walk down a garden path .
Dolly be somewhat embarrassed and trouble by the quite novel circle she find herself in .
in the abstract , theoretically , she not only excuse but even approve of Anna 's action .
as be frequently the case with irreproachably moral woman who become tired of the monotony of a moral life , she from a distance not only excuse a guilty love but even envy it .
besides , she love Anna from her heart .
but actually see she among these people so alien to herself , with their fashionable tone which be quite new to she , Dolly feel ill at ease .
in particular it be disagreeable to she to see the Princess Barbara , who forgave they everything for the sake of the comfort she enjoy there .
in general , in the abstract Dolly approve the step Anna have take , but it be unpleasant to she to see the man for whose sake the step have be take .
besides , she have never like Vronsky .
she consider he very proud , and see nothing in he to justify that pride ; except his wealth .
but involuntarily he , here in his own house , impose on her more than ever , and she could not feel at ease with he .
she experience the same kind of shyness in his presence that she have feel when the lady 's maid see her jacket .
as with the maid she feel not exactly ashamed but uncomfortable about the patch , so with he she feel not exactly ashamed but ill - at - ease about herself .
feel embarrassed , she try to think of something to talk about .
though she think that , be so proud , he would not be pleased to hear his house and garden admire , yet not find any other subject for conversation , she say she like his house very much .
' yes , it be a very handsome building and in a good old style , ' he say .
' I like the courtyard in front of the portico very much .
be it like that before ? '
' oh no ! ' he reply , and his face light up with pleasure . ' if you have only see that courtyard in spring ! '
and he begin , at first with reserve but more and more carry away by his subject , to draw her attention to various detail of the adornment of the house and garden .
one could see that , having devote great pain to the improvement and decoration of his place , Vronsky felt compel to boast of they to a fresh person , and be heartily pleased by Dolly 's praise .
' if you care to see the hospital and be not too tired – it be not far .
shall we go ? ' he suggest , glance at her face to assure himself that she really be not bored .
' will you come , Anna ? ' he say , turn to she .
' we will come . shall we ? ' she ask Sviyazhsky .
' Mais il ne faut pas laisser le pauvre Veslovsky et Tushkevich se morfondre là dans le bateau ! [ but we must not leave poor Veslovsky and Tushkevich to wait in vain in the boat . ]
we must send to let they know .
yes , it be a monument he be erect here , ' say Anna to Dolly , with the same sly know smile with which she have previously speak about the hospital .
' oh , it be a great undertaking ! ' say Sviyazhsky .
but , not to seem to be make up to Vronsky , he immediately add a slightly condemnatory remark . ' but I be surprised , Count , that you , who be do so much for the people from a sanitary point of view , should be so indifferent to the school ! '
' C'est devenu tellement commun , les école , ' [ school have become so common . ] answer Vronsky . ' of course that be not the reason , but I ...
I have be carry away . this be the way to the hospital , ' he say , turn to Dolly and point to a turning that lead out of the avenue .
the lady open their sunshade and enter the sidewalk .
after several turning they pass through a gate , and Dolly see on the high ground before she a large , red , nearly complete building of a fanciful shape .
the still unpainted iron roof shine dazzlingly in the sunshine .
beside the finished building another as yet surround by scaffold be be build . workman wear apron stand on the scaffold lay brick , pour water from wooden pail , or smooth the mortar .
' how quickly your work get on ! ' say Sviyazhsky . ' when I be last here there be no roof . '
' it will be finish by autumn .
the interior be nearly complete , ' say Anna .
' and what be this new building ? '
' that will be the doctor 's quarter and the dispensary , ' reply Vronsky ; and see the architect in his short jacket come toward they , he apologize to the lady and go to meet he .
avoid the pit from which the man be take mortar , he stop and begin heatedly discuss something with the architect .
' the pediment be still too low , ' he answer Anna 's question as to what it be all about .
' I say the foundation ought to be raise , ' say Anna .
' yes , of course that would have be well , Anna Arkadyevna , ' reply the architect , ' but it be do now . '
' yes , I be very much interested in it , ' say Anna to Sviyazhsky , who express surprise at her knowledge of architecture . ' the new building ought to be in line with the hospital , but it be an afterthought and be begin without a plan . '
having finish talk with the architect Vronsky rejoin the lady and lead they to the hospital .
although they be still work at the cornice outside and paint inside on the ground floor , the upper story be nearly finish .
ascend the broad cast - iron staircase to the landing , they enter the first large room .
the wall be plaster with imitation marble and the enormous plate - glass window be already in place ; only the parquet floor be not finish , and the carpenter who be plane a square of the parquet leave their work , and remove the tape that keep their hair out of the way , bow to the gentlefolk .
' this be the waiting - room , ' say Vronsky . ' there will be a desk , a table and a cupboard here : nothing more . '
' this way ! we will pass here .
do not go near the window ! ' say Anna , feel whether the paint be dry . ' Alexis , the paint be dry already , ' she add .
from the waiting - room they pass into the corridor .
here Vronsky show they the new system of ventilation which have be instal .
then he show the marble bath and the bed with peculiar spring mattress .
then he take they to one ward after another : to the store - room , the linen - room , show the stove build on a new plan , then some silent trolley to convey necessary article , and much besides .
sviyazhsky appreciate everything like one who be acquaint with all the new improvement .
dolly be simply surprised at what she have never before see , and wish to understand it all , ask for information about every detail , which evidently gratify Vronsky .
' yes , I think this will be the only quite correctly plan hospital in Russia , ' say Sviyazhsky .
' and will you have a maternity ward ? ' inquire Dolly . ' that be so much want in the country .
I often ... '
despite his courtesy , Vronsky interrupt she .
' this be not a maternity home but a hospital , and be intend for all illness , except infectious one , ' he say . ' but have a look at this ... ' and he move a chair for convalescent , just arrive from abroad , toward Dolly . ' just look ! ' he sit down in the chair and begin move it . ' a patient be unable to walk – still too weak , or have something the matter with his foot ; but he want fresh air , so he go out , take a ride ... '
everything interested Dolly and everything please she , especially Vronsky himself with his natural and naive enthusiasm .
' yes , he be a very nice , good fellow , ' she think again and again , not listen to he but look at he , understand his expression , and mentally put herself in Anna 's place .
in this animate state she like he so much that she understand Anna 's be able to fall in love with he .
' no , I think the PRINCESS DARYA ALEXANDROVNA be TIRED and horse do not interest she , ' say Vronsky to Anna , who be suggest that they should go to the stud farm where Sviyazhsky want to look at a new stallion . ' you go , and I will see the Princess back to the house and will have a talk with she – if you do not mind ? ' he add , turn to Dolly .
' I do not understand anything about horse , and shall be very pleased to , ' answer Dolly , take rather by surprise .
she see by Vronsky 's face that he want something of she .
she be not mistaken .
as soon as they have pass through the gate back into the garden , he glance in the direction Anna have take , and having assure himself that she could not hear or see they , he begin .
' you have guess that I want to talk to you , ' he say , look at she with laughter in his eye . ' I know that you be a friend of Anna 's . ' he take off his hat , and with his handkerchief mop his head , which be get bald .
dolly do not reply and only look at he with alarm .
alone with he she suddenly feel frightened : his laugh eye and stern expression scare she .
many diverse supposition as to what he be about to say flit through her brain . ' he will ask I to come and stay with they and bring the child , and I shall have to refuse ; or to get together a circle for Anna in Moscow ...
or maybe it be about Vasenka Veslovsky and his relation with Anna ?
or possibly about Kitty , and that he feel guilty toward she ? '
everything she surmise be unpleasant , but she do not hit on what he actually wish to speak about .
' you have so much influence over Anna and she be so fond of you , ' he say . ' help I ! '
dolly look with timid inquiry at his energetic face , which be now wholly and now partly in the sunlight that fall between the lime tree , and then be again darken by their shadow . she wait for what more he would say ; but he walk by her side in silence , prod the gravel with his stick as he go .
' as you have come to see we and you be the only one of Anna 's former friend who have ( I do not count the Princess Barbara ) – I feel you have do so not because you consider our position normal , but because , realize all the hardship of that position , you love she as before and wish to help she .
have I understand you rightly ? ' he ask , turn toward she .
' oh , yes ! ' answer Dolly , close her sunshade , ' but ... '
' no , ' he interrupt ; and forget that he be place his companion in an awkward position , he stop , so that she be oblige to stop also . ' no one feel all the hardship of Anna 's position more than I do ; and that be naturally so , if you do I the honour of regard I as a man with a heart .
I be the cause of that position and therefore I feel it . '
' I understand , ' say Dolly , involuntarily admire he for the frank and firm way in which he say it . ' but just because you feel you have cause it , I be afraid you exaggerate it , ' she say . ' I understand that her position in Society be a hard one . '
' in Society it be hell ! ' he say quickly with a dark frown . ' it be impossible to imagine great moral torment than those she endure for two week in Petersburg ... I beg you to believe I ! '
' yes , but here , so long as neither Anna nor you ... feel that you need Society ... '
' Society ! ' he exclaim with contempt . ' what need can I have of Society ? '
' till then , and that may be always , you be happy and tranquil .
I see that Anna be happy , quite happy , she have already tell I so , ' said dolly smile ; and involuntarily while say it she doubt whether Anna be really happy .
but Vronsky , it seem , do not doubt it .
' yes , yes , ' he say . ' I know that she have revive after all her suffering ; she be happy ; she be happy in the present .
but I ? ...
I be afraid of what be before we ... I beg your pardon !
you want to move on ? '
' no , I do not mind . '
' well then , let we sit down here . '
Dolly sit down on a seat at the turn of the avenue .
he stand before she .
' I see she be happy , ' he repeat , and the doubt as to whether Anna be really happy strike Dolly yet more strongly . ' but can it continue ?
whether we act rightly or wrongly be another question ; the die be cast , ' he say , change from Russian into French , ' and we be bind together for life .
we be unite by what be for we the holy bond of love .
we have a child , we may have other child .
yet the law and the circumstance of our position be such that thousand of complication appear which at present , while rest after all her suffering and trial , she neither see nor wish to see .
that be natural .
but I can not help see they .
my daughter be not mine by law , but Karenin 's .
I hate this falsehood ! ' he say with an energetic gesture of denial , and look at Dolly with a gloomily question expression .
she make no answer , but only look at he .
he continue :
' some day a son may be bear , my son , and he will by law be a Karenin , and not heir either to my name or my property , and however happy we may be in our family life , and whatever child we may have , there will be no legal bond between they and I .
they will be Karenin 's !
imagine the hardship and horror of this situation !
I have try to speak to Anna about it , but it irritate she .
she do not understand and I can not speak out about it to she .
now look at the other side of it .
I be happy , happy in her love , but I need an occupation .
I have find one . I be proud of it , and consider it more honourable than the occupation of my former comrade at Court or in the Service .
I certainly would not exchange my work for theirs .
I be work here , remain on the spot , and I be happy and content , and we need nothing more for our happiness .
I like my activity .
Cela n'est pas un pis aller , [ it be not a last shift . ] on the contrary ... '
Dolly observe that at this point his explanation be confused , and she could not quite understand why he have wander from the point , but she feel that having once begin to speak of his intimate affair , of which he could not speak to Anna , he be now tell she everything , and that the question of his work in the country belong to the same category of intimate thought as the question of his relation with Anna .
' well , to continue ! ' he say , recover himself . ' the principal thing be that when work I want the assurance that the work will not die with I , that I shall have heir ; and that I have not get .
imagine the situation of a man who know in advance that child bear of he and of the woman he love will not be his , but some one else 's – some one who will hate they and will have nothing to do with they !
you know it be dreadful ! '
he pause , evidently greatly excited .
' yes , of course , I quite understand .
but what can Anna do ? ' ask Dolly .
' well , this bring I to the point of my talk , ' he go on , calm himself with an effort . ' Anna can do it ; . it depend on she ...
even to be able to petition the Emperor for permission to adopt the child , a divorce will be necessary , and that depend on Anna .
her husband be willing to have a divorce – your husband have almost arrange it – and I know he would not refuse now .
it be only necessary to write to he .
he then reply definitely that if she express the wish , he would not refuse .
of course , ' he say gloomily , ' that be one of those Pharasaic cruelty of which only heartless people be capable .
he know what torture every recollection of he cause she , and know she he still demand a letter from she .
I understand that it be painful for she , but the reason be so important that one must passer pardessus tout ces finesses de sentiment .
Il y va du bonheur et de l'existence d'Anne et de ses enfant ! [ one must act out all these refinement of sentiment .
the happiness and existence of Anna and her child depend on it . ]
I do not speak of myself , though it be very hard on I , very hard , ' he say with a look as if he be menace some one for make it so hard on he . ' and so , Princess , I shamelessly cling to you as an anchor of salvation !
help I to persuade she to write to he and demand a divorce ! '
' yes , certainly , ' say dolly thoughtfully , vividly remember her last conversation with Karenin . ' yes certainly , ' she repeat resolutely , remember Anna .
' use your influence with she , get she to write , I do not wish and be almost unable to speak to she about it . '
' very well , I will speak to she .
but how be it she herself do not think of it ? ' ask Dolly , suddenly remember that strange new habit Anna have of screw up her eye .
and she remember that it be just when the intimate side of life be in question that Anna screw up her eye .
' as if she be blink at her life so as not to see it all , ' think dolly . ' certainly I will speak to she , for my own sake and for hers , ' she say in reply to his expression of gratitude .
they get up and go back to the house .
finding DOLLY already RETURNED , Anna look attentively into her eye as if ask about the talk she have have with Vronsky , but she do not ask in word .
' I think it be nearly dinner - time , ' she say . ' we have not yet see anything of one another ...
I be count on this evening .
now I must go and dress , and you too , I suppose .
we have dirty ourselves on the building . '
dolly go to her room , feel amused .
she have nothing to change into as she be already wear her good dress ; but to give some sign that she have prepare for dinner , she ask the maid to brush her dress , and she put on clean cuff , pin a fresh bow to her dress and place some lace in her hair .
' this be all I be able to do , ' she smilingly say to Anna , who come to she in a third dress , again extremely simple .
' yes , we be very formal here , ' Anna remark , as if excuse her own smartness . ' Alexis be seldom so pleased about anything as he be at your having come .
he be decidedly in love with you , ' she add . ' but be not you tired ? '
there be no time to discuss anything before dinner .
when they enter the drawing room the Princess Barbara and the man be already there .
the man wear frock coat , except the architect , who be in a dress suit .
Vronsky introduce the doctor and the steward to his visitor ; the architect have already be present at the hospital .
the fat butler – his round , clean - shaven face and starch white tie shine – announce dinner .
the lady rise ; Vronsky ask Sviyazhsky to take in Anna , and himself go up to Dolly .
Veslovsky offer his arm to the Princess Barbara before Tushkevich could do so , so that the latter , the steward , and the doctor go in by themselves .
the dinner , the dining - room , the dinner - service , the servant and the wine and the food be not merely in keep with the general tone of modern luxury in the house , but seem even more luxurious and more modern than the rest .
Dolly observe all this luxury , which be new to she , and , as a housewife herself control a household , she could not help note the detail ( though she have no hope of put what she observe to practical use in her own home , so far be such luxury above her way of life ) and ask herself how it be all do and by whom .
Vasenka Veslovsky , her husband , and even Sviyazhsky and many other whom she know , never think about these thing , and readily believe , what every decent host wish his guest to feel , that all that be so well arrange at his house have cost he no trouble but have come about of itself .
dolly , however , know that not even a milk pudding for the child 's lunch come of itself , and that therefore so complicated and splendid an organization must have need some one 's careful attention ; and from the way Vronsky survey the table , give a sign with his head to the butler , and ask she whether she would take fish - broth or soup , she conclude that it have all be do by , and depend on , the master 's care .
it be evident that it depend no more on Anna than on Veslovsky .
Anna , Sviyazhsky , the Princess , and Veslovsky be all equally guest , gaily make use of what be provide for they .
Anna be the hostess only in what concern the conversation .
and that difficult task for the mistress of a house with a small circle which include such people as the steward and the architect – people of quite a different world , who try not to be abash by the unfamiliar luxury and be unable to take any sustained part in the general conversation – Anna manage that task with her usual tact , naturally and even with pleasure , as Dolly observe .
reference be make to Tushkevich and Veslovsky having be for a row by themselves , and Tushkevich begin to tell about the last boat race at the Petersburg Yacht Club .
but at the first pause Anna turn to the architect , to draw he into the conversation .
' Nicholas Ivanich , ' she say ( refer to Sviyazhsky ) , ' be strike by the way the new building have grow since his last visit ; even I , who go there every day , be always surprised how quickly it get on . '
' it be pleasant to work with his Excellency , ' answer the architect with a smile . he be a dignified , respectful and quiet man .
' it be not like have to do with the Local Authorities , ' say he . ' where they would scribble over a whole ream of paper , I merely report to the Count ; we talk it over , and three word settle the matter . '
' american method ! ' say Sviyazhsky with a smile .
' yes . there they erect building rationally ... '
the conversation pass on to the abuse in the government of the United States , but Anna quickly turn it to another theme so as to draw the steward out of his silence .
' have you ever see a reap machine ? ' she ask Dolly . ' we have be to look at they when we meet you .
I see they myself for the first time . '
' how do they act ? ' ask Dolly .
' just like scissor .
it be a board and a lot of little scissor .
like this ... '
Anna take a knife and a fork in her beautiful white hand , sparkle with ring , and begin to demonstrate .
she be obviously aware that her explanation would not be understand , but as she know that she speak pleasantly and that her hand be beautiful , she go on explain .
' rather like penknife ! ' say Veslovsky playfully , never take his eye from she .
Anna smile slightly , but do not answer he .
' be it not true , Karl Fedorich , that it be like scissor ? she ask , turn to the steward .
' oh , ja ! ' answer the German . ' Es ist ein ganz einfaches Ding , ' [ oh , yes ! it be quite a simple thing . ] and he begin to explain the construction of the machine .
' it be a pity it do not bind the sheaf .
I see one at the Vienna Exhibition that bind the sheaf with wire , ' remark Sviyazhsky . ' that kind would be more profitable , '
' Es kommt darauf an ... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden , [ it all depend ... the price of the wire must be allow for . ] and the german , draw from his silence , turn to Vronsky . ' Das lässt sich ausrechnen , Erlaucht ! ' [ it can be calculate , Excellency ! ] the German be already put his hand to the pocket where he keep a notebook with a pencil in which he make all his calculation , but remember that he be at dinner , and notice Vronsky 's cold look , he desist . ' Zu complicirt , macht zu viel Klopot , ' [ too complicated , too much trouble . ] he conclude .
' Wünscht man Dokhots , so hat man auch Klopots , [ if one want income one must also have trouble . ( the russian word for income be dokhod . Veslovsky mispronounce it , and introduce it into a german sentence for fun . ) ] say Vasenka Veslovsky , make fun of the German . ' j'adore l'allemand . ' [ I adore German . ] say he , turn to Anna with the same smile as before .
' Cessez ! ' [ leave off ! ] say she with mock severity . ' and we think we should find you on the field , Vasily Semenich ! be you there ? ' she say to the doctor , a sickly - look man .
' I have be there , but have evaporate , ' say the doctor , with dismal jocularity .
' then you have have some good exercise ? '
' magnificent ! '
' and how be the old woman ? I hope it be not typhus ? '
' no , it be not exactly typhus , but she be not in a good state . '
' what a pity ! ' say Anna , and having thus pay the tribute of politeness to the retainer , she turn to her friend .
' all the same , it would be difficult to construct a reaper from your description , Anna Arkadyevna , ' sviyazhsky chaff she .
' oh , why not ? ' say Anna , with a smile which say that she know there have be something engage in her way of describe the reaper and that Sviyazhsky have notice it .
this new trait of youthful coquetry jar on Dolly .
' but then , Anna Arkadyevna 's knowledge of architecture be wonderful , ' remark Tushkevich .
' oh , yes ! yesterday I hear Anna Arkadyevna mention damp course and plinth , ' say Veslovsky . ' be I say it right ? '
' there be nothing to be surprised at , consider how much I hear and see of it , ' say Anna . ' and you , I be sure , do not even know what house be make of ! '
dolly notice that Anna do not like the playful tone that have arise between herself and Veslovsky , yet could not help fall in with it .
Vronsky behave in this matter quite unlike Levin .
he evidently do not attach any importance to Veslovsky 's chatter , and even encourage it .
' come , Veslovsky ! tell we what keep the brick together ! '
' cement , of course ! '
' Bravo !
and what be cement ? '
' well ... it be something like paste ... no , putty ! ' reply Veslovsky , rouse general laughter .
the conversation among the diner – except the doctor , the architect and the steward , who sit in gloomy silence – be incessant , now glide smoothly , now catch on something and touch one or other of they to the quick .
once Dolly be sting to the quick ; and so arouse that she even flush up , and afterwards wonder whether she have say anything superfluous and disagreeable .
Sviyazhsky begin talk about Levin and mention his peculiar view that machine only do harm in russian agriculture .
' I have not the pleasure of know the gentleman , ' say Vronsky with a smile , ' but probably he have never see the machine which he condemn ; or if he have see and try they , have do it just anyhow , and not with a foreign - make but with a russian machine .
and what opinion be possible on so plain a matter ? '
' turkish opinion , ' say Veslovsky , turn to Anna with a smile .
' I can not defend his opinion , ' say Dolly , flare up , ' but I can say that he be a very well - inform man , and if he be here he would be able to answer you , though I can not . '
' I be very fond of he , and we be great friend , ' say Sviyazhsky with a good - natured smile . ' Mais pardon , il est un petit peu toque ! ' [ but , excuse I , he be a little crack . ] for instance , he maintain that the Zemstvos and Magistrates be quite unnecessary , and he will not have anything to do with they . '
' that be our russian indifference , ' say Vronsky , pour water from an ice decanter into a very thin glass with a stem , ' not to realize the duty our right impose on we , and therefore to deny those duty . '
' I know no one who fulfil his duty more strictly , ' say Dolly , irritate by Vronsky 's superior tone .
' I , on the contrary , ' continue Vronsky , who be evidently for some reason touch to the quick by this conversation , ' I , on the contrary , such as I be , feel very grateful for the honour they have do I , thank to Nicholas Ivanich ' – he indicate Sviyazhsky – ' by elect I Justice of the Peace .
I consider that the duty of go to the meeting , and consider a peasant 's case about a horse , be as important as anything else I can do .
I shall consider it an honour if they elect I to the Zemstvo .
it be only so that I can make a return for the advantage I enjoy as a landowner .
unfortunately people do not understand the importance the large landowner should have in the State . '
to Dolly it sound strange to hear how assured he be of be in the right , here at his own table .
she remember how Levin , who hold the opposite opinion , be equally positive in his opinion at his own table .
but she be fond of Levin , and therefore side with he .
' then we may expect to see you at the next Session , Count ? ' ask Sviyazhsky . ' but you must come in good time , so as to be there on the eighth .
if you would only do I the honour of stop with I ... '
' and I rather agree with your brother - in - law , ' say Anna , ' though I do not go to his length , ' she add with a smile . ' I be afraid we have too many of these public obligation nowadays .
formerly we use to have so many official that there have to be an official for everything that be do , and now we have public worker for everything !
Alexis have not be here six month , and I think he be already a member of five or six different institution : Guardian of the Poor , Justice of the Peace , a Member of a Council , a juryman , and Member of some Commission on horse ...
Du train que cela va , ' [ at the rate at which it be go . ] all his time will be take up that way .
and I fear that with the multiplication of these position they become a mere form .
of how many institution be you a member , Nicholas Ivanich ? ' she ask , address Sviyazhsky ; ' more than twenty , be not it ? '
although Anna speak playfully , irritation be perceptible in her tone .
Dolly , who be attentively watch she and Vronsky , notice it at once .
she also see that at this conversation Vronsky 's face immediately assume a serious and obstinate expression .
notice these thing , and that the Princess Barbara hasten to change the subject by speak of their Petersburg acquaintance , and remember that in the garden Vronsky have speak about his activity inopportunely , she understand that with this question of public work some private difference between Anna and Vronsky be connect .
the dinner , the wine , the service be all very good but they be all such as Dolly – though she have become unused to they – have see before at dinner - party and ball , and like those function they bear a character of impersonality and strain ; therefore on an everyday occasion and in a small gathering they produce an unpleasant impression on she .
after dinner they sit awhile on the verandah .
then they play lawn - tennis .
the player , having choose their partner , take their place on the carefully level and roll croquet lawn , on the two side of a net stretch between two small gilded pillar .
dolly try to play , but be long unable to understand the game , and by the time she do understand it she be so tired that she sit down beside the Princess Barbara to watch the other .
her partner Tushkevich also give it up , but the rest play for a long time .
Sviyazhsky and Vronsky both play very well and seriously .
they intently follow the ball send to they , neither hurry nor hesitate , run toward it with agility , wait for it to bounce , and then strike it with the racket send it back across the net with good aim and precision .
Veslovsky play worse than the other .
he be too eager , but to make up for that his gaiety inspire his companion .
his laughter and shout never cease .
he , as well as the other man , have with the lady ' permission take off his coat , and his large handsome figure in white shirt - sleeve , his ruddy perspiring face and impetuous movement , stamp themselves on the memory of the onlooker .
as soon as Dolly that night have go to bed and close her eye , she see Vasenka Veslovsky rush hither and thither on the croquet lawn .
while they be play Dolly be not feel happy .
she do not like the bantering tone between Anna and Veslovsky that continue during the game , nor the unnaturalness of grow - up people when they play childish game in the absence of child .
but not to disturb the other and to while away the time , after rest she rejoin the player and pretend to like it .
all that day she feel as if she be act in a theatre with well actor than herself , and that her bad performance be spoil the whole affair .
she have come with the intention of stay two day if she could adapt herself to the life .
but that evening during the game she resolve to leave next day .
those painful maternal worry , which she have so hate on her journey , now after a day spend without they appear in quite a different light and draw she back to they .
when , after evening tea and a row in the boat at night - time , Dolly enter her bedroom alone , take off her dress and sit down to do up her thin hair for the night , she feel great relief .
even the thought that Anna would come in a moment be disagreeable to she .
she wish to be alone with her thought .
DOLLY be ready to get into bed when Anna in her nightgown come into the room .
several time during the day Anna have begin to talk about intimate matter , but after a few word she have always pause , say : ' later on when we be alone we will talk it all over .
I have so much to say to you ! '
now they be alone , but Anna do not know what to speak about .
she sit by the window , look at Dolly and mentally review all those store of intimate topic that have seem inexhaustible , and could find nothing to say .
it seem to she at that moment as if everything have already be say .
' well , and how be Kitty ? ' she ask with a deep sigh and a guilty glance at Dolly . ' tell I the truth , dolly : be she not angry with I ? '
' angry ?
no ! ' reply Dolly with a smile .
' but she hate and despise I ? '
but you know one do not forgive those thing ! '
' no , no , ' say Anna , turn away and look out of the open window . ' but it be not my fault , and whose fault be it ?
what do be in fault mean ?
could thing have be different ?
now , what do you think ?
could it have happen to you not to be Steve 's wife ? '
' I really do not know .
but I want you to tell I this ... '
' yes , yes , but we have not finish about Kitty .
be she happy ?
they say he be a fine fellow . '
' it be not enough to say he be a fine fellow ; I do not know a well man . '
' oh , I be so glad !
I be very glad !
it be not enough to say he be a fine fellow , ' she repeat .
dolly smile .
' but tell I about yourself .
I have much to talk to you about and I have be talk with ...
dolly do not know what to call he .
she do not like to call he either ' the Count ' or ' Alexis Kirilich . '
' with Alexis ? ' say Anna . ' I know you have .
but I want to ask you frankly , what do you think of I and of my life ? '
' how can I tell you all at once ?
I really do not know . '
' oh , but all the same , tell I ! ...
you see what my life be .
but do not forget that you see we in summer when you have come and we be not alone ...
but we come here in early spring and live quite alone , and we shall live alone again . I do not wish for anything well .
but imagine I live alone , without he , alone , and that will happen ... everything show that it will often happen , – that he will spend half his time from home , ' she say , rise and take a seat near to Dolly . ' of course , ' she go on , interrupt Dolly , who be about to reply , ' of course I will not keep he against his will !
I do not keep he .
one day there be race and his horse be run ; he go .
I be very glad .
but think of I , imagine my position ... but why talk of it ! '
she smile . ' well then , what do he talk about to you ? '
' he talk about what I myself want to ask you , so it be easy for I to be his advocate : about whether it be not possible ... whether it can not ... ' dolly hesitate , ' how to remedy , to improve your position ... you know my opinion ...
but all the same if it be possible you should get marry . '
' that is , get a divorce ? ' say Anna . ' do you know , the only woman who call on I in Petersburg be Betsy Tverskaya ?
you know she , of course ?
Au fond c'est la femme la plus dépravée qui existe .
[ at bottom , she be the most depraved woman in existence . ]
she have a liaison with Tushkevich , deceive her husband in the bad way , and she tell I that she do not wish to know I as long as my position be irregular ... !
do not think I be make any comparison ...
I know you , my darling ...
but I could not help remember ...
well then , what do he say to you ? ' she repeat .
' he say that he suffer on your account and on his own .
perhaps you will say it be egotism , but what legitimate and noble egotism !
he want , first of all , to legitimatize his daughter and to be your husband and have a right to you . '
' what wife , what slave could be such a slave as I be in my position ? ' Anna sullenly interrupt she .
' but the chief thing he want be that you should not suffer . '
' that be impossible !
well ? '
' and his most legitimate wish be that your child should not be nameless . '
' what child ? ' say Anna , screw up her eye and not look at Dolly .
' Annie , and those that will come ... '
' he may be at ease about that : I shall not have any more child . '
' how do you know you will not ? '
' I sha not , because I do not want they . '
and in spite of her agitation Anna smile on notice the naive expression of curiosity , surprise and terror on Dolly 's face .
' after my illness the doctor tell I ... '
' impossible ! say dolly , with wide - open eye .
to she this be one of those discovery which lead to consequence and deduction so enormous that at the first moment one only feel that it be impossible to take it all in , but that one will have to think over it again and again .
this discovery , which suddenly explain to she those hitherto incomprehensible family where there be only one or two child , awake in her so many thought , reflection and contradictory feeling that she could say nothing , and only stare at Anna with wide - open eye full of astonishment .
it be the very thing she have dream of , but now on learn that it be possible , she be horrified .
she feel that it be too simple a solution of too complex a question .
' N'est - ce pas immoral ? ' [ be not it immoral ? ] be all she say after a pause .
remember I have to choose between two thing : either to become pregnant , that be ill , or to be the friend and comrade of my husband – for he be my husband all the same , ' say Anna , in a tone of intentional levity .
' well , yes , of course , ' say Dolly , listen to the very argument which she have put to herself but not find they so convincing as before .
' for you and for other , ' say Anna , as if guess her thought , ' there may still be some doubt , but for I ...
remember , I be not a wife , he love I as long as his love last !
well , how be I to keep his love ?
in this way ? '
she curve her white arm in front of her stomach .
with unusual rapidity , as happen at time of great agitation , thought and recollection crowd into Dolly 's mind .
' I could not attract Steve , ' she think ' he leave I for other , and the first one for who he betray I do not hold he , though she be always pretty and bright !
he throw she over and take another .
be it possible that Anna will attract and keep Count Vronsky in this way ?
if he look for that sort of thing he will find woman whose dress and manner be still bright and more attractive .
and however white and shapely her bare arm may be , however beautiful her full figure and her flushed face surround by that black hair – he will find other still more beautiful , as my horrid , pitiable and dear husband look for and find they ! '
Dolly make no answer and only sigh .
Anna notice the sigh , which express dissent , and continue .
she have other argument in store , and such powerful one that they could not be answer .
' you say it be not right ?
but you must consider , ' she go on . ' you forget my position .
how can I desire child ?
I be not talk of the suffering : I be not afraid of that .
but think who my child would be !
unfortunate being , who would have to bear a stranger 's name !
by the very fact of their birth they would have to be ashamed of their mother , their father , their birth ! '
' but that be just why a divorce be necessary ! '
Anna do not listen .
she want to reproduce the argument with which she have so often convince herself .
' what be my reason give I for , if I be not to use it to avoid bring unfortunate being into the world ? '
she glance at Dolly , but not pause for a reply continue :
' I should always feel guilty toward those unhappy child , ' say she . ' if they do not exist at any rate they be not unhappy , but if they be unhappy I alone shall be to blame . '
these be the very argument dolly have put to herself , but now she listen without understand they .
' how can one be guilty toward being who do not exist ? ' think she .
and suddenly the question come into her mind , whether it could be well in any case for her favourite Grisha if he have never exist ?
this appear to her so monstrous and strange that she shake her head , to dispel the confusion of insane thought that whirl in her brain .
' well , I do not know ; but it be not right , ' she say with a look of disgust .
' yes , but do not forget what you be and what I be ...
and besides , ' add Anna , in spite of the abundance of her argument and the poverty of Dolly 's , apparently agree that it be not right , – ' do not forget the chief thing : that I be not in the same position as you !
the question for you be , whether you desire not to have any more child ; for I it be , whether I desire to have they .
and that be a great difference .
do not you see that , situate as I be , I can not desire they ? '
dolly do not reply .
she suddenly feel that she be so far away from Anna that there be question on which they could never meet , and about which it be good not to talk .
' then there be all the MORE need to regularize your position if possible , ' say Dolly .
' yes , if possible , ' Anna say , in what have suddenly become quite a different – a quiet and sad – voice .
' be a divorce not possible ?
I be tell your husband have agree ... '
' dolly , I do not want to speak about it ! '
' well then , we will not , ' dolly hasten to say , notice the look of pain on Anna 's face . ' but I see that you look at thing too dismally . '
not at all !
I be very cheerful and satisfied .
you see that je fais des passion ... [ I have love affair . ]
Veslovsky . '
' yes , to tell you the truth , I do not like Veslovsky 's manner , ' say Dolly , wish to change the subject .
' oh , not at all !
it tickle Alexis , and that be all ; he be only a boy and entirely in my hand ; you know , I manage he just as I please .
he be just the same to I as your Grisha ...
Dolly ! ' she say suddenly , change her tone , ' you say I look at thing too dismally ; you can not understand .
it be too dreadful .
I try not to look at they at all ! '
' but I think you ought to .
you must do all that be possible . '
' but what be possible ?
nothing !
you say I must marry Alexis , and that I do not consider that .
I not consider that ! ' she repeat , and flush .
she rise , draw herself up , sigh deeply , and with her light step begin pace up and down the room , pause occasionally . ' I not consider it ?
not a day , not an hour pass without my thinking about it and blame myself for what I think ... because those thought be enough to drive one mad !
to drive one mad ! ' she repeat . ' when I think of it I can not fall asleep without morphia .
well , all right .
let we discuss it quietly .
they speak of divorce .
for one thing , he would not agree now .
he be now under the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's influence . '
dolly , sit upright in her chair , with a pained expression of sympathy turn her head to follow Anna 's movement .
' one must try , ' she say gently .
' let us grant that .
but what would it mean ? ' say Anna , evidently express a thought she have consider a thousand time and know by heart . ' it mean that I , who hate he but yet acknowledge myself to blame toward he – and I do think he magnanimous – I must humiliate myself by write to he ... !
well , suppose I make that effort and do it : I shall receive either an insulting answer or his consent .
suppose I get his consent ... '
Anna at that instant have reach the other end of the room and stop there , do something to the window curtain .
' I receive his consent , and my so ... son ?
they will not give he to I .
he will grow up despise I , in the house of his father whom I have leave .
understand that I love equally , I think , and both more than myself – two being : Serezha and Alexis . '
she come back to the middle of the room and , press her chest with her arm , pause before Dolly .
in her white dressing - gown her figure appear peculiarly tall and broad .
she bend her head and , tremble all over with emotion , look from under her brow with moist , glitter eye at the thin , piteous - look little Dolly in her patch dressing - jacket and night - cap .
' I love those two being only , and the one exclude the other !
I can not unite they , yet that be the one thing I desire .
and if I can not have that , nothing matter – nothing , nothing !
it will end somehow , therefore I can not – I do not like speak about it .
so do not reproach I , do not condemn I for anything !
you in your purity can not understand all I suffer ! '
she come and sit down beside Dolly , peer into her face with a guilty look , and take she by the hand .
' what be you think ?
what be you think of I ?
do not despise I !
I do not deserve contempt .
I be simply unhappy .
if anyone be unhappy , it be I ! ' she murmur , and , turn away , she weep .
leave alone , Dolly say her prayer and get into bed .
she have pity Anna from the bottom of her heart while they be talk ; but now she could not make herself think about she .
recollection of home and of her child rise in her imagination with a new and peculiar charm .
that world of her own now seem so precious and dear that she do not wish on any account to spend another day away from it , and she decide certainly to go home on the morrow .
meanwhile Anna , return to her boudoir , take a wineglass and put into it some drop of medicine , the chief ingredient of which be morphia . having drink it and sit still for a few moment , she enter her bedroom cheerfully and merrily .
when she come in Vronsky regard she attentively .
he try to find some trace of the conversation which he know , by her having remain so long in Dolly 's room , must have take place .
but in her expression of restrained excitement , which conceal something , he detect nothing except that beauty which , though familiar , still captivate he , her consciousness of this , and her desire that it should act on he .
he do not wish to ask she what they have be talk about , but hope that she would tell he of her own accord .
however , she only say :
' I be glad you like Dolly .
you do ? '
' but I have know she a long time .
I think she be very kind , mais excessivement terre - à - terre . [ excessively matter - of - fact . ]
but all the same I be very glad she come . '
he take Anna 's hand and look inquiringly into her eye .
she , misunderstand that look , smile at he .
next morning , in spite of her host ' entreaty , Dolly prepare to go home .
Levin 's coachman in his by no mean new coat , and a hat something like a post - boy 's , with his horse that do not match and the old calèche with mended mud - guard , drive up gloomily but resolutely to the cover , sand - strew portico .
take leave of the Princess Barbara and of the man be unpleasant to Dolly .
after spend a day together both she and her host feel distinctly that they do not suit one another and that it be well for they not to associate .
only Anna feel sad .
she know that when Dolly be go no one would call up in her soul the feeling which have be arouse by their meeting .
to have those feeling awaken be painful , but still she know that they be the good part of her soul , and that that part of she be rapidly be choke by the life she be lead .
when they have drive into the field Dolly experience a pleasant feeling of relief , and she be about to ask the man how they have like the Vronskys ' place , when suddenly Philip the coachman himself remark :
' they be rich , that they be , but yet they give we only two bushel of oat .
the horse have eat every grain before cock - crow !
what be two bushel ? only a bite .
nowadays oats be forty - five kopek at the inn .
when anyone come to our place , no fear ; we give their horse as much as they will eat . '
' a stingy gentleman ... ' confirm the clerk .
' well , and do you like their horse ? ' ask Dolly .
' the horse ? Fine be the only word for they !
and the food be good too .
but it do seem so dull to I , Darya Alexandrovna ! I do not know how you find it , ' he add , turn his handsome , kindly face toward she .
' I feel the same .
well , shall we get back by evening ? '
' we ought to . '
on return home and find every one safe and extremely nice , Dolly give a very animate account of her visit , of how well she have be receive , of the luxury and good taste at the Vronskys ' , and of their amusement , and would not let anyone say a word against they .
' one must know Anna and Vronsky – I have get to know he well now – in order to understand how kind and pathetic they be , ' say she with entire sincerity , forget the indefinite feeling of dissatisfaction and embarrassment she have experience there .
VRONSKY and ANNA WENT ON living in the country in the same way , still take no step to obtain a divorce , all the summer and part of the autumn .
they have agree not to go away anywhere , but the long they live alone the more they both feel – especially in autumn when there be no visitor – that they would not be able to hold out and that a change be inevitable .
their life seem one that could not be improve upon : they have ample mean , good health , a child , and both have occupation of their own .
in the absence of visitor Anna still continue to devote attention to her person , and read a great deal – both novel and such serious book as be in fashion .
she order all the book that be praise in the foreign newspaper and magazine they receive , and read they with the attention one give only to what one read in solitude .
she study also from book and from technical paper all the subject with which Vronsky be occupy , so that he often come straight to she with question about agriculture , architecture , and sometimes even horsebreede or sport .
he be astounded at her knowledge and memory , and at first use to doubt her information and want it confirm . she would then find what he want in book and show it he .
the arrangement of the hospital also interest she .
there she not only help , but arrange and plan many thing herself .
nevertheless , her chief preoccupation be still herself – herself in so far as Vronsky hold she dear and in so far as she could compensate he for all he have give up .
Vronsky appreciate this , which have become the sole aim of her life , a desire not only to please he but also to serve he ; but at the same time he be trouble by these love - mesh in which she try to entangle he .
as time go on , the oftener he feel himself catch in these mesh the more he desire , not exactly to escape from they but to try whether they really interfere with his freedom .
have it not be for this ever - increase desire for freedom – not to have a scene each time he have to go to town to a meeting or to the race – Vronsky would have be quite content with his life .
the role he have choose , that of a rich landowner – one of those who should constitute the kernel of the russian aristocracy – be not only quite to his taste but , now that he have live so for half a year , give he ever - increase pleasure .
his affair , which occupy and absorb he more and more , progress excellently .
in spite of the tremendous sum the hospital , the machinery , the cow which he import from Switzerland , and many other thing be cost he , he be sure that he be not waste his substance but increase it .
where it be a question of income – the sale of forest land , of corn or wool , or the leasing of land – Vronsky be as hard as flint and could hold out for his price .
in all operation on a large scale , both on this and on his other estate , he keep to the simple and safe method , and be extremely economical and careful in his expenditure on small detail .
despite all the cunning and artfulness of the german steward , who try to lead he into expenditure and present all estimate in such a way that it at first appear as if much would be require , though on consideration the thing could be do more cheaply and an immediate profit obtain , Vronsky do not submit to he .
he listen to what the steward have to say and question he , but only consent when the thing to be order or build be the late , as yet unknown in Russia , and likely to astonish people .
besides , he decide on a big outlay only when he have money to spare , and when spend he go into every detail and insist on get the very good for his money .
so that from the way he manage his business it be clear that he be not waste but increase his property .
in October there be the Nobility election in the Kashin Province , in which Vronsky 's , Sviyazhsky 's , Koznyshev 's , and also a small part of Levin 's estate be situate .
various circumstance , as well as the man who take part in they , cause these election to attract public attention .
they be much discuss and preparation be make for they .
People live in Moscow and Petersburg as well as other from abroad , who have never come to any election , assemble at these .
Vronsky have long ago promise Sviyazhsky to be present .
before the election Sviyazhsky , who often visit at Vozdvizhensk , call for Vronsky .
the day before , Vronsky and Anna have almost quarrel about his propose journey .
it be autumn , the dull and most depressing time of year in the country , and so Vronsky , brace himself for a struggle , announce his departure in a sterner and cold way than he have ever before use to Anna .
but , to his surprise , Anna take the news very quietly and only ask when he would return .
he look at she attentively , not understand this calm manner .
she answer his look with a smile .
he know her capacity for withdraw into herself , and know that she only do it when she have come to some resolution in her own mind without tell he of her plan .
he fear this , but he so wish to avoid a scene that he pretend to believe , and to some extent sincerely believe , in what he wish to believe , namely , in her reasonableness .
' I hope you will not be dull ? '
' I hope not , ' reply Anna . ' I receive a box of book from Gautier 's [ a well - know Moscow bookseller . ] yesterday .
no , I sha not be dull . '
' she mean to adopt this tone – well , so much the well ! ' think he , ' or else it would be the usual thing again . '
and so , without challenge she to a frank explanation , he leave for the election .
it be the first time since their union that he have part from she without a full explanation .
on the one hand this fact disturb he , but on the other hand it seem the good way .
' at first there will be , as now , something uncertain , something conceal ; but afterwards she will get use to it .
in any case I can give she everything else , but not my independence as a man , ' he reflect .
in September Levin move to Moscow for Kitty 's confinement .
he have already be live there a whole month without occupation , when Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev , who have an estate in the Kashin Province and take a great interest in the forthcoming election , prepare to attend they .
he ask his brother , who have a vote for the Seleznev district , to accompany he .
Levin have also some very important business to attend to in Kashin for his sister who live abroad . it be in connection with a wardship and the receiving of money due to she for land transfer to the peasant .
Levin be still waver , but Kitty , who have notice that he be dull in Moscow and have advise he to go , without say anything to he order for he the uniform necessary for the occasion , which cost eighty rouble .
and it be these eighty rouble pay for the uniform which chiefly decide he .
so he go to Kashin .
Levin have be five day in Kashin , go daily to meeting and take a great deal of trouble over his sister 's business , which he be still unable to arrange .
the Marshals of the Nobility be all busy with the election , and he could not get even the simple matter in connection with the wardship settle .
the other business , that of get the money pay , also meet with obstacle .
after long effort to get an injunction remove the money be all ready to be pay out ; but the notary – a very obliging man – could not give the warrant because it need the President 's signature , and the President be engage at the Session and have not appoint a substitute .
all those worry , the go from place to place , conversation with very kind good people who quite understand the unpleasantness of the petitioner 's position but be unable to help he , and all these effort which yield no result , produce in Levin a painful feeling akin to the vexatious helplessness one experience when try to employ physical force in a dream .
he feel this frequently when talk to his very good - natured legal adviser .
this legal adviser seem to do all that be possible and to strain every nerve to get Levin out of his difficulty .
' look here ! ' he would say , ' just try this – go to so - and - so , and to so - and - so . ' and the adviser would make an elaborate plan to circumvent the fatal difficulty which be at the root of all this trouble .
but he would immediately add : ' all the same you will be put off ; however , have a try ! '
and Levin try , and go again and again .
everybody be kind and amiable , but still it turn out that what he want to circumvent start up again in another place and impede he once more .
it be specially annoying to Levin to be quite unable to understand with whom he be contend , and whom the delay in his business could profit .
no one , not even his lawyer , seem to know this .
if Levin could have understand it , as he understand the reason . for have to stand in a queue at a booking - office , he would not have feel hurt or vex ; but no one could explain to he the reason for the obstacle he encounter in these business transaction .
however , Levin have change considerably since his marriage ; he have become patient , and if he do not understand why thing be arrange thus , he tell himself that , not know everything , he could not judge , and that probably thing have to be so ; and he try not to be indignant .
and now , be present at the election and take part in they , he also try not to condemn , not to dispute , but as far as possible to understand the matter – on which good and honest man , whom he respect , be engage with so much seriousness and enthusiasm .
since his marriage so many new and serious aspect of life have be reveal to he , which owe to his superficial acquaintance with they have formerly seem unimportant , that he anticipate and look for a serious meaning in this election business also .
Koznyshev explain to he the meaning and importance of the change anticipate as a result of the election .
the Marshal of the Nobility for the Province – in whose hand the law place so much important public business : wardships ( such as the one about which Levin be now in trouble ) , the care of enormous sum of money belong to the nobility , public school for boy and girl , military school , elementary education accord to the new Law , and finally the Zemstvo – the Marshal of the Province , Snetkov , be one of the old type of noble . he have run through an enormous fortune , be a kind man , honest in his way but quite unable to understand present - day requirement .
he always side with the nobility in everything , openly oppose the spread of popular education , and give a class character to the Zemstvo , which should have such enormous importance .
it be necessary to put in his place a fresh , up - to - date , practical , and quite new man , and to manage matter so as to extract from the right grant to the nobility ( not as noble , but as an element of the Zemstvo ) all the advantage of self - government which could be obtain from they .
in the wealthy Province of Kashin , always ahead of all other , such force be now assemble that , if matter be here manage as they should be , it might serve as an example to other Provinces and to the whole of Russia .
the affair be therefore of great importance .
to replace Snetkov as Marshal , Sviyazhsky be propose , or , well still , Nevedovsky , an ex - professor , a remarkably intelligent man , and a great friend of Koznyshev 's .
the Session be open by the Governor of the Province , who in his speech to the noble tell they that in choose occupant for post they should show no partiality , but should choose accord to merit and for the welfare of the country , and that he hope the honourable nobility of Kashin would strictly fulfil its duty as it have do in previous election , and would justify their sovereign 's high confidence in they .
having finish his speech the Governor leave the hall , and the nobleman , noisily , vivaciously , some of they even rapturously , follow he out with enthusiasm , and stand around he as he be put on his fur coat and talk in a friendly way with the Marshal of the Province .
Levin , wish to enter fully into everything and not to miss anything , stand there too in the crowd , and hear the Governor say : ' please tell Mary Ivanovna that my wife be very sorry she have to go to the Orphanage . '
then the nobleman gaily scramble for their overcoat and all drive to the cathedral .
in the cathedral Levin , with the other , raise his hand , repeat the word of the priest , and swear by the most awful oath to fulfil all the thing the Governor have hope for .
church service always touch Levin and when he be utter the word , ' I kiss the cross , ' and look round at the crowd of man , young and old who be repeat the same word , he felt move .
on the second and third day matter be deal with concern the fund of the Nobility and the Girls ' High Schools , which , Koznyshev explain , be quite unimportant ; so Levin , busy go from place to place on the business he have in hand , do not trouble about they .
on the fourth day the audit of the Provincial Funds be undertake , and now for the first time there be a conflict between the new and old party .
the Commission entrust with the task of auditing report to the Assembly that the sum be all correct .
the Marshal of the Nobility rise and with tear in his eye thank the nobility for their confidence .
the noble loudly applaud he and press his hand .
but at that moment one of the noble of Koznyshev 's party say he have hear that the Commission have not audit the fund , consider that a verification would be an insult to the Marshal of the Province .
a member of the Commission imprudently confirm this .
then a small , very young - look , but very venomous man begin say that probably the Marshal of the Province would be pleased to account for the Funds , and that the excessive politeness of the member of the Commission be deprive he of that moral satisfaction .
thereupon the member of the Commission withdraw their report and Koznyshev begin very logically to prove that they must admit either that they have audit the account or that they have not do so , and to elaborate this dilemma .
a speaker of the opposite party reply to Koznyshev .
then Sviyazhsky speak , and then the venomous gentleman once more .
the debate continue . for a long time and do not come to any conclusion .
Levin be surprised that they dispute about it so long , especially as , when he ask Koznyshev whether he think that money have be misappropriate , he receive the reply :
he be an honest fellow , but this old - fashioned patriarchal and family management of the Nobility 's affair must be put a stop to ! '
on the fifth day the election of the District Marshals take place .
for some of the district the election be stormy enough ; but for the Selezensk district Sviyazhsky be elect without opposition , and he give a dinner party at his house that evening .
ON the SIXTH day the provincial election be to be hold .
the large and small hall be full of nobleman in various uniform .
many have come for that day only .
man who have long not meet – some from the crimea , some from Petersburg , and some from abroad – come together in those hall .
at the Marshal 's table , beneath the portrait of the Emperor , discussion be in full swing .
both in the large and small hall the nobleman be group together in their party , and from the hostility and suspicion of their glance , from the cessation of their conversation when a stranger approach , and from the fact that some of they even go whisper into the farther corridor , it be evident that each party have secret it keep from the other .
by their external appearance the noble be sharply divide into two sort : the old and the young .
the old , for the most part , either wear old - fashioned button - up uniform of their class and carry sword and hat , or wear the naval , cavalry , or infantry uniform to which each be individually entitle .
the uniform of the old nobleman be cut in the old - fashioned way , with puff at the shoulder , and be clearly too small for they , be short - waisted and narrow as if their wearer have grow out of they .
the young man wear long - waisted loose uniform wide across the shoulder with white waistcoat , or else be in uniform with black collar embroider with laurel leave – the emblem of the Ministry of Justice .
to the young party also belong the Court uniform , which here and there ornament the crowd .
but the division into young and old do not coincide with the separation into party .
some of the young one , as Levin observe , belong to the old party , and on the other hand some very aged nobleman converse in whisper with Sviyazhsky and evidently be warm partisan of the new party .
Levin stand with his own group in the Small Hall , which be use as a refreshment and smoking room , listen to what be be say and vainly strain his mental power to understand it all .
Koznyshev be the centre around whom the rest be group .
he be now listen to Sviyazhsky and Hlyustov , the Marshal of another district , who also belong to their party .
Hlyustov be unwilling to go with the member for his district to invite Snetkov to stand again for election . Sviyazhsky be persuade he to do so and Koznyshev approve of this .
Levin do not see why his party should ask the Marshal to stand , when they wish to defeat he .
Oblonsky , who have just have something to eat and drink , come toward they in his Chamberlain 's uniform , wipe his mouth with his scented and border lawn handkerchief .
' we be hold the position , Sergius Ivanich ! ' say he , smooth back his whisker .
and after listen to the conversation he back Sviyazhsky 's opinion .
' one district be sufficient , and Sviyazhsky evidently belong to the opposition , ' he say , and every one but Levin understand he .
' well , Kostya ! you too seem to have get a taste for it ? ' he say , turn to Levin and take he by the arm .
Levin would have be glad to get a taste for it but could not understand what the point be , and , step aside from the group , he tell Oblonsky of his perplexity as to why the Marshal of the Province should be ask to stand again .
' o sancta simplicita ! ' say Oblonsky , and briefly and clearly explain the matter to Levin .
' if , as in former election , all the district nominate the Provincial Marshal , he would be elect , receive white ball from every one .
this we do not want .
now eight district be willing to invite he to stand again ; if two district refuse to do so , Snetkov may decline to stand and then the old party might choose another of their member , and then all calculation would be upset .
but if only Sviyazhsky 's district do not invite he , Snetkov will stand .
he will even get a good number of vote , so that the opposition will be mislead , and when a candidate of our stand they will give he some vote . '
Levin understand , but not fully , and wish to put some further question when suddenly every one begin talk at once , and move noisily toward the Large Hall . ' what be it ? what ? who ? an authorization ? to whom ? what ? reject ! no authorization ! Flerov be not admit ! what if he be be prosecute ? in that way they can exclude anybody ! it be mean ! the law ! ' Levin heard shout from various side , and he go toward the Large Hall with all the other , who be hasten on apparently afraid of miss something or other . hem in by a crowd of nobleman , he approach the provincial table , at which the Provincial Marshal , Sviyazhsky , and the other leader be have a heated dispute .
levin be stand some way OFF .
he could not hear distinctly because of the stertorous and hoarse breathing of one nobleman near he and the creaking of the stout shoe of another .
he could hear only the distant soft voice of the Marshal , then the shrill voice of the venomous nobleman , and then Sviyazhsky 's voice .
they be dispute , as far as he could make out , about a paragraph of the law and the meaning of the word : ' against whom legal proceeding be take . '
the crowd separate to make way for Koznyshev to approach the table .
he wait for the venomous nobleman to conclude , and then say he consider the proper course would be to consult the wording of the Act and request the Secretary to look it up .
the Act provide that in case of a difference of opinion the question should be ballot upon .
Koznyshev read the Act aloud , and begin to explain its meaning , but a tall , thick - set , round - shoulder landowner with a dye moustache , wear a tight uniform the high collar of which squeeze up his neck at the back , interrupt he .
advance to the table he strike his ring against it , shout in a loud voice :
' vote !
put it to the ballot !
enough talk !
vote ! '
at this several voice be hear , and the tall landowner with the ring , grow more and more spiteful , shout louder and louder ; but it be impossible to make out what he be say .
he be demand the very thing Koznyshev be propose ; but he evidently hate Koznyshev and his party , and this hatred communicate itself to all those on his side , and in turn evoke a similar , though more decently express , feeling of conflict anger from the oppose party .
shout arise , and for a moment there be such confusion that the Marshal have to call for order .
' vote ! vote !
every one who be a nobleman will understand ...
we shed our blood ...
the Emperor 's confidence ...
do not audit the Marshal ; he be not a shop assistant ! ...
but that be not the point ! ...
kindly ballot ! ...
abominable ! ' be hear shout by spiteful furious voice from every side .
the look and expression on the face be yet more spiteful and furious than the word .
they express implacable hatred .
Levin could not at all understand what be the matter , and be astounded at the ardour with which they discuss the question whether Flerov 's case should be put to the ballot or not .
he forget , as Koznyshev afterwards explain to he , the syllogism that for the common welfare it be necessary to displace the Marshal of the Province , but to defeat the Marshal it be necessary to have a majority of vote ; to obtain that majority it be necessary to secure for Flerov the right to vote ; and to secure Flerov 's eligibility it be necessary to explain the meaning of the Law .
' a single vote may decide the whole matter , and one must be serious and consistent if one wish to be of public service , ' Koznyshev have say in conclusion .
but Levin have forget that , and it pain he to see these good man , whom he respect , in such an unpleasant , malevolent state of excitement .
to free himself from this feeling he go , without wait to hear the end of the discussion , into the refreshment room , where there be no one except the waiter at the buffet .
when he see the waiter busily wipe crockery and arrange plate and wine - glass , and see their calm yet animated face , he experience an unexpected feeling of relief , as if he have come out of a close room into fresh air .
he begin pace up and down the room , watch the waiter with pleasure .
he be particularly pleased by one old man with grey whisker , who while evince contempt for the young man who be make fun of he be teach they how to fold napkin .
Levin be just prepare to start a conversation with the old waiter when the Secretary of the Court of Nobility , an old man whose speciality it be to know all the noble of the Province by name and patronymic , divert his attention .
' please come , Constantine Dmitrich ! ' say he . ' your brother be look for you .
the vote be be take . '
Levin enter the Hall , be give a white ball , and , follow his brother , Sergius Ivanich , approach the table at which Sviyazhsky stand with an ironical and impressive look on his face , gather his beard into his fist and smell at it .
Koznyshev insert his hand in the ballot - box and place his ball somewhere , and make way for Levin pause beside he .
Levin come up , but having entirely forget how the matter stand and be confused he turn to Koznyshev with the inquiry , ' where be I to put it ? '
he speak in a low voice at a time when people near by be talk , so he hope his question would not be hear .
but the talk stop and his improper question be hear .
Koznyshev frown .
' that depend on each man 's conviction , ' he say severely .
several person smile .
Levin blush , hastily thrust his hand under the cloth that cover the box , and , as the ball be in his right hand , drop it on the right side .
when he have do so he recollect that he ought to have put in his left hand also , and thrust it in , but it be too late ; and feel still more confused he hurry away to the very back of the room .
' one hundred and twenty - six for ' !
ninety - eight against ! ' come the Secretary 's voice , drop his r 's .
then follow a sound of laughter ; a button and two nut have be find in the ballot box .
Flerov be qualified and the new party have score .
but the old party do not consider itself defeat .
Levin hear Snetkov be ask to stand ; and he see that a crowd of noble surround the Marshal , who be speak .
Levin draw near .
reply to the noble , Snetkov speak of the confidence and affection of the Nobility , of which he be not worthy , his merit consist only in his loyalty to the Nobility , to whom he have devote twenty year of service .
several time he repeat the word : ' have serve to the extent of my power – faithfully and truly – I appreciate and thank ... ' then suddenly choke by tear , he stop , and leave the room .
whether those tear result from a consciousness of injustice do he , or from love for the Nobility , or from the strained situation in which he find himself , surround by enemy , at any rate his emotion communicate itself . the majority of the noble be touch and Levin feel a tenderness for Snetkov .
in the doorway the Marshal come into collision with Levin .
' sorry ! please excuse I ! ' he say , speak as to a stranger ; but , recognize Levin , he smile timidly .
it seem to Levin that Snetkov wish to say something but could not speak from agitation .
the expression of his face and his whole figure , in uniform with crosse and white trouser trim with gold lace , as he go hurriedly along , remind Levin of a hunted animal conscious that thing be go badly with he .
this expression on the Marshal 's face touch Levin , particularly because , just the day before , he have be to his house about the wardship and have there see he in all the dignity of a kind - hearted family man .
the large house with the old family furniture ; the old footman by no mean smart , rather shabby , but respectful – evidently former serf who have remain with their master ; the stout , good - natured wife , in a lace cap and turkish shawl , caress her pretty granddaughter ( a daughter 's daughter ) , the manly young son in the sixth form of the High School , who have just come home and who kiss his father 's large hand in greeting ; the impressive kindly word and gesture of the host – all this have yesterday awaken Levin 's involuntary respect and sympathy .
now the old man seem touching and pathetic to Levin and he wish to say something pleasant to he .
' so you be to be our Marshal again , ' say he .
' hardly ! ' reply the Marshal , look round with a frightened expression . ' I be tired and old .
there be other worthy and young than I , let they serve . '
and the Marshal disappear through a side - door .
the most solemn moment have arrive .
the election be about to begin .
the leader of both party be make estimate and calculate on their finger the white and black ball they could reckon on .
the debate about Flerov have give the new party not merely his vote but also a gain in time , so that they have have a chance to bring up three more noble who , by the machination of the old party , be to be prevent from take part in the election .
two of these nobleman , who have a weakness for wine , have be make drunk by Snetkov 's agent , and the uniform of the third have be carry off .
the new party , having hear of this , have have time while Flerov 's case be be discuss to send two of their man in a carriage to supply that nobleman with a uniform and to bring one of the tipsy one to the Assembly .
' I have bring one . I souse he , ' say the landowner who have be to fetch he , approach Sviyazhsky . ' he will do . '
' he be not very drunk – he will not fall down ? ' ask Sviyazhsky , sway his head .
' no , he be fine .
if only they do not give he anything here ...
I tell the man at the bar on no account to let he have anything ! '
the . narrow ROOM in which they be eat arid smoking be full of nobleman .
the excitement be ever increase and anxiety be noticeable on all the face .
especially excited be the leader , who know all the detail and the estimate of vote .
they be director of the impending battle .
the other , like the rank and file before a battle , though prepare for the fight , seek distraction meanwhile .
some of they eat , stand or hastily sit down at the table , other smoke cigarette , pace up and down the long room , and talk to friend they have not see for a long time .
Levin do not want to eat and do not smoke ; he do not wish to join his own set – Koznyshev , Oblonsky , Sviyazhsky and the other – because among they , in animated conversation , stand Vronsky , wear his uniform as an equerry .
Levin have notice he at the election the day before and have carefully avoid meet he .
he go to the window and sit down , look at the different group and listen to what be be say around he .
he feel sad , chiefly because he see that every one else be animate , preoccupy , and busy while only he and a mumbling , toothless , quite old man in naval uniform who have sit down beside he be uninterested and inactive .
' he be such a rascal !
I tell he not to !
really !
in three year he could not collect it , ' – a short , round - shoulder landowner with pomaded hair that hang down on the embroider collar of his uniform be say energetically , stamp loudly with the heel of the new boot he have evidently put on specially for this occasion .
and cast a discontent glance at Levin , he suddenly turn away .
' yes , it be a dirty business , say what you will , ' remark an undersized man with a feeble voice .
follow those two a whole crowd of landowner surround a stout General , hastily approach Levin .
obviously they be seek a place where they could talk without be overhear .
' how dare he say I give order to steal his trouser ?
I expect he drink they .
I snap my finger at he and his princely title !
he have no right to say it : it be mean ! '
' but excuse I !
they rely on the statute , ' some one in another group be say . ' the wife ought to be register as belong to the Nobility . '
' what the devil do I care about the statute ?
I speak frankly .
that be what the nobility be for .
one must have confidence . '
' come , your Excellency ! a glass of fine champagne ! '
another group follow close on the heel of a nobleman who be shout loudly . he be one of those who have be make drunk .
' I always advise Mary Semenovna to let her estate , because she will never make it pay , ' say a pleasant - voice landowner with a grey moustache , wear the uniform of Colonel of the former General Staff .
it be the landowner Levin have meet at Sviyazhsky 's house .
he know he at once .
the landowner also recognize Levin and they shake hand .
' very pleased to see you !
of course I remember you very well .
last year , at Sviyazhsky the Marshal 's house . '
' well , how be your husbandry get on ? ' Levin inquire .
' oh , still the same – with a loss , ' reply the landowner as he stop beside Levin , with a resign smile and a look of calm conviction that it must be so . ' and how do you come to be in our Province ? ' he ask . ' have you come to take part in our coup d'état ? ' he go on , pronounce the french word firmly but badly . ' all Russia have assemble here : chamberlain and almost Ministers . ' he point to the portly figure of Oblonsky in his Chamberlain 's uniform with white trouser , walk beside a General .
' I must confess to you that I only imperfectly understand the meaning of these nobility election , ' say Levin .
the landowner look at he .
' but what be there to understand ?
it have no meaning whatever .
the Nobility be an obsolete institution which continue to act through inertia .
look at the uniform ! they tell the tale : this be an assembly of Justices of the Peace , permanent official , and so on , but not of noble ! '
' then why do you come ? ask Levin .
' from habit , for one thing .
then one must keep up one 's connection .
it be a sort of moral obligation .
and then , to tell the truth , I have a private reason .
my son - in - law wish to stand for a permanent membership : they be not well off and I want he to get it .
but why do such gentleman come ? ' he go on , indicate the venomous gentleman who have speak at the provincial table .
' he be one of the new Nobility . '
' new if you like , but not the Nobility .
they be landowner ; we be country squire .
they , as nobleman , be commit suicide . '
' but you say it be an obsolete institution ! '
' it be obsolete certainly ; but all the same one should treat it more respectfully .
take Snetkov ...
whether we be good or bad , we have be grow for a thousand year .
you know , if we have to make a garden in front of our house , we should plan it out , and if a century - old tree be grow on that spot – though it may be rugged and old , yet you will not cut it down for the sake of a flower - bed , but will plan your bed so as to make use of the old tree !
it can not be grow in a year , ' he remark cautiously , immediately change the subject . ' well , and how be your husbandry get on ? '
' oh , not well .
I get about five per cent . '
' yes , but you do not reckon your own work .
you know you too be worth something !
now , take I .
before I take to farming I be get three thousand rouble a year in the Service .
now I work hard than I do in the Service , and like yourself I clear about five per cent . , and that only with luck .
and my own labour go for nothing . '
' then why do you go on with it , if it be a clear loss ? '
' well , you see ... one go on !
what would you have ?
it be a habit , and one know that it be necessary !
I will tell you , moreover , ' and lean his elbow on the window and having start talk , the landowner go on : ' my son have no taste at all for husbandry .
it be clear he will be a scholar , so that there will be no one to continue my work , and yet I go on !
just now , you know , I have plant an orchard . '
' yes , yes , ' say Levin , ' that be quite so !
I always feel that I be get no real profit out of my estate and yet I go on ...
one feel a sort of duty toward the land . '
' I will tell you something , ' continue the landowner . ' my neighbour , a merchant , call on I , and we go over the farm and garden together .
he say , " everything be go as it should , only your garden be neglect , " though my garden be quite in order .
" if I be you , I should cut down those lime , but it must be do when the sap rise .
you must have a thousand lime here , and each one of they would yield a good lot of bast , and at present bast fetch a good price .
and the trunk could be cut up for log hut ! " '
' yes , and with that money he would buy cattle , or a piece of land for a mere song , and would lease it to the peasant , ' add Levin with a smile , have evidently more than once come across such calculation .
' and he will make a fortune , while you and I must be thankful if we can keep what we have and leave it to our child . '
' you be married , I hear ? ' say the landowner .
' yes , ' reply Levin with proud satisfaction . ' yes , it be curious , ' he continue . ' we live without gain anything , as if we be appoint , like the vestal of old , to guard some fire or other . '
the landowner smile under his grey moustache .
' there be those among we too ... for example our friend Sviyazhsky , or Count Vronsky , who have now settle here , who want to turn agriculture into an industry ; but as yet that lead only to loss of capital . '
' but why do not we do like the merchant ?
why do not we cut down our lime for bast ? ' say Levin , return to the thought that have strike he .
' why , as you have say , we guard the fire !
the other be not work for the Nobility .
our work be not do here , at the election , but at our home .
we have a class instinct as to what should not be do .
I see it in the peasant too sometimes : a proper peasant always try to get hold of as much land as possible .
however bad the land , still he plough it .
it bring he also no profit , but pure loss . '
' just like we , ' say Levin . ' very , very glad to have meet you , ' he add , see sviyazhsky approach .
' we two have meet for the first time since we be at your house , ' say the landowner , ' and have indulge in a chat . '
' yes , and have you be abuse the new order ? ' ask Sviyazhsky with a smile .
' we will not deny it . '
' unburden our soul ! '
sviyazhsky TOOK Levin 's arm and lead he back to his own group .
this time it be impossible to avoid Vronsky .
he be stand with Oblonsky and Koznyshev , and look straight at Levin as he come up .
' very pleased !
I think I have the pleasure of meet you ... at the Princess Shcherbatsky 's ? ' say he , hold out his hand to Levin .
' yes , I well remember our meeting , ' say Levin , and blush scarlet immediately turn and speak to his brother .
smile slightly , Vronsky continue his conversation with Sviyazhsky , evidently have no desire to start a conversation with Levin ; but Levin , while talk to his brother , keep look round at Vronsky , try to think of something to say to he , in order to mitigate his rudeness .
' what be delay matter now ? ' ask Levin glance at Sviyazhsky and Vronsky .
' Snetkov .
he must either decline or accept , ' reply Sviyazhsky .
' well , and have he agree or not ? '
' that be just it : neither the one nor the other , ' answer Vronsky .
' and if he should refuse , who will stand ? ' ask Levin , look at Vronsky .
' whoever like , ' reply Sviyazhsky .
' will you ? ' ask Levin .
' certainly not I , ' say Sviyazhsky , become embarrassed and cast an alarmed glance at the venomous gentleman , who be stand beside Koznyshev .
' who then ?
Nevedovsky ? ' say Levin , feel that he have put his foot in it somehow .
but this be still bad .
Nevedovsky and Sviyazhsky be the two prospective candidate .
' not I , not on any account ! ' say the venomous gentleman .
so this be Nevedovsky !
Sviyazhsky introduce he to Levin .
' well , have it touch you to the quick too ? ' say Oblonsky , wink at Vronsky . ' it be like the race .
it make one inclined to bet on the result . '
' yes , it do touch one to the quick , ' reply Vronsky , ' and having once take the matter up , one want to carry it through .
it be a struggle ! ' he say frown , and close his powerful jaw .
' what a capable man Sviyazhsky be !
how clearly he put everything ! '
' oh yes , ' reply Vronsky absent - mindedly .
there be a pause , during which Vronsky , since he have to look at something , look at Levin : at his foot , his uniform ; and then his face , and notice the sombre eye fix upon he he remark , just to say something :
' and how be it that you , live constantly in the country ; be not a Justice of the Peace ?
you be not in the uniform of a justice ? '
' because I consider that the Magistracy be an idiotic institution , ' morosely reply Levin , who have all the time be look for an opportunity of speak to Vronsky , to atone for his rudeness at their first encounter .
' I do not think so ; on the contrary ... ' say Vronsky with calm surprise .
' it be a game , ' Levin interrupt . ' we do not need any Justices of the Peace .
I have not have a single case in eight year , and when I do have one it be decide wrongly .
the Justice 's Court be forty verst from my house .
to settle a matter worth two rouble I should have to send an attorney who cost I fifteen . '
and he relate how a peasant steal some flour from a miller , and how when the miller speak to he about it the peasant sue he for libel .
all this be untimely and foolish , and Levin himself be conscious of it even while he speak .
' oh , he be such a crank ! ' say Oblonsky with his smooth and most almondy smile . ' but come ! I think the ballot have begin ... '
and they separate .
' I do not understand , ' say Koznyshev , who have observe his brother 's awkward sally , ' I do not understand how one can be so entirely devoid of political tact !
that be what we Russians lack .
the Marshal of the Province be our opponent , and you be ami cochon [ you be quite thick with he . ] with he and ask he to stand .
but Count Vronsky ... I do not make a friend of he ; he invite I to dinner and I sha not go ; but he be one of our party , so why make an enemy of he ?
then you ask Nevedovsky whether he will stand .
that kind of thing be not do ! '
' oh , I understand nothing about it !
it be all trifle , ' say Levin , gloomily .
' there , you say it be all trifling , but when you begin on it you make a mess of everything . '
Levin remain silent and they enter the Large Hall together .
the Marshal of the Province , though he feel in the air that there be a plot prepare against he , and though he have not be unanimously ask to stand , have still decide to do so .
there be silence in the hall , and the Secretary loudly announce that Michael Stepanich Snetkov , captain of the Guards , be nominate for the post of Provincial Marshal , and that the ballot would now be take .
the District Marshals carry little plate fill with ballot ball from their own table to the provincial table , and the election begin .
' put it on the right , ' whisper Oblonsky to Levin as the latter , with his brother , follow the Marshal to the table .
but Levin have forget the plan which have be explain to he , and be afraid that Oblonsky be make a mistake when he say ' right . '
surely Snetkov be their opponent !
while approach the box he have the ball in his right hand , but , think it be a mistake , he shift it to his left hand just as he reach the box , and evidently place it to the left .
an expert stand beside the box , who by the mere motion of an elbow could tell where every ball be put , make a wry face .
there be nothing for he to exercise his penetration upon this time .
all become silent again , and one hear the ball be count .
then a solitary voice proclaim the number for and against .
the Marshal have receive a considerable majority .
a clamour arise and every one rush to the door .
Snetkov enter and the nobleman throng around he with congratulation .
' well , be it over now ? ' Levin ask his brother .
' it be only begin ! ' sviyazhsky smilingly answer for Koznyshev . ' the other candidate may get still more vote . '
Levin have again forget about that .
he only now remember that there be some subtlety in it , but he be too bored to recollect what it be .
he be overcome by depression and want to get out of that crowd .
as no one be pay any attention to he , and he apparently be not want by anybody , he go quietly to the small refreshment - room and again feel great relief when he see the waiter .
the old waiter offer he something to eat and Levin accept .
having eat a cutlet and bean , and talk with the old man about his former master , Levin , not wish to return to the hall where he have feel so out of his element , go up into the gallery .
the gallery be crowd with smartly - dress woman who lean over the balustrade and try not to miss a single word of what be be say below .
beside the woman sit or stand elegant lawyer , spectacled High School teacher , and officer .
every one be talk about the election and how tired out the Marshal be and how interesting the debate have be . in one group Levin hear they praise his brother .
a lady be say to a lawyer :
' how glad I be to have hear Koznyshev !
it be worth while go a little hungry .
delightful !
so clear and audible !
there now , no one speak like that in your Court – except perhaps Maydel , and even he be far less eloquent ! '
having find a vacant place at the balustrade , Levin lean over and begin to look and listen .
the nobleman be sit behind partition , arrange accord to their district .
in the centre of the room stand a man in uniform , who announce in a loud shrill voice :
' as candidate for the post of Provincial Marshal , Captain Eugene Ivanich Apukhtin will now be ballot for . '
then follow a dead silence , and a feeble voice be hear say :
' decline ! '
' Court Councillor Peter Petrovich Bol will now be ballot for , ' cry the voice of the man in uniform .
' decline , ' shout a youthful squeaky voice .
a similar announcement be make , and again follow by ' decline . '
so it go on for about an hour .
Levin , lean over the balustrade , look on and listen .
at first he be surprised and want to understand what it mean ; then , come to the conclusion that he could not understand it , he grow bored .
then , remember the agitation and anger he have witness on all face , he feel sad , and with the intention of leave the place go downstairs .
as he be pass through the corridor behind the gallery he come across a dispirited High School pupil with bloodshot eye pace up and down .
on the stair he meet a couple : a lady run up swiftly in her high - heeled shoe , and the Assistant Public Prosecutor .
' I say you would be in time , ' the Assistant say , as Levin step aside to let the lady pass .
Levin be already descend the stair to the exit and get out his cloakroom ticket when the Secretary catch he . ' please come , Constantine Dmitrich ! they be vote ! '
the candidate who be stand be Nevedovsky , who have so decidedly decline .
Levin go up to the door of the hall : it be lock .
the Secretary knock , the door open and two landowner with flushed face plunge out past Levin .
' I can not stand it ! ' cry one of the red - faced landowner .
then the head of the Provincial Marshal be thrust out at the doorway .
his face be dreadful from its expression of exhaustion and fear .
' I tell you to let no one out ! ' he shout to the doorkeeper . ' I be let people in , your Excellency ! '
' oh , Lord ! ' say the Marshal of the Province with a deep sigh ; and with his weary leg in the white trouser drag , and hang his head , he go down the middle of the hall to the chief table .
Nevedovsky have a majority as they have expect and he be now Marshal of the Province .
many be cheerful , many contented and happy , many be in ecstasy and many dissatisfied and miserable .
the old Marshal be in despair and could not hide it .
when Nevedovsky leave the hall the crowd surround he and follow he enthusiastically as it have follow the Governor of the Province on the first day , when he open the meeting , and as it have follow Snetkov when he be successful .
the NEWLY - elect MARSHAL , of the Province and many of the victorious new party dine that evening at Vronsky 's .
Vronsky have come to the election because he feel dull in the country , in order to proclaim to Anna his right to freedom , to repay Sviyazhsky by support he at these election for all the trouble he have take for Vronsky at the Zemstvo election , and most of all to perform strictly all the duty of the position he have take up as nobleman and landowner .
but he have not at all expect that the election business would interest he so much and so touch he to the quick , or that he could do it so well .
he be quite a new man in this circle of noble landowner , but he evidently be a success ; and he be not mistaken in think that he have already gain influence among they .
this influence be promote by his wealth , by his title , by the splendid house in the town which have be lend he by his old acquaintance Shirkov , a financier who have found a flourish bank in Kashin ; by the excellent chef whom he have bring from his estate ; by his friendship with the Governor , who have be a former comrade and one whom Vronsky have even protect ; but above all by his simple behaviour in treat every one alike which have quickly induce most of the nobleman to change their opinion as to his suppose pride .
he himself feel that , except that crazy fellow marry to Kitty Shcherbatsky , who , à propos de botte [ quite irrelevantly . ] have with rabid virulence tell he a lot of pointless nonsense , every nobleman whose acquaintance he have make have become his partisan .
he see clearly , and other acknowledge , that he have contribute very much to Nevedovsky 's success .
now , at his own table , celebrate Nevedovsky 's election , Vronsky experience a pleasant feeling of triumph .
the election themselves interest he so much that he begin to think that if he be marry by the next triennial election he would himself put up , just as , when a jockey have win he a prize , he have wish to ride a race himself .
they be now celebrate the jockey 's victory .
Vronsky sit at the head of the table ; on his right be the young Governor , a General of the Emperor 's suite .
for everybody else the General be the master of the Province , who have solemnly open the session and make a speech , and , as Vronsky see , arouse both respect and servility in many present , but for Vronsky he be ' Maslov Katka ' – the nickname he have have in the Corps des Pages – who feel embarrassed in his presence and whom Vronsky try to mettre à son aise . [ to put at his ease . ]
on Vronsky 's leave sit Nevedovsky with his youthful , dog , and venomous look .
toward he Vronsky be simple and courteous .
Sviyazhsky bear his failure cheerfully .
it be not even a failure for he ; as he himself say to Nevedovsky , champagne glass in hand , no well representative of the new course which the nobility ought to follow could have be find .
and therefore all that be honest , as he remark , be on the side of to - day 's success and triumph in it .
Oblonsky too be pleased that he have spend his time merrily and that every one be satisfied .
at the excellent dinner the episode of the election be discuss .
Sviyazhsky comically mimic the old Marshal 's tearful speech and , turn to Nevedovsky , remark that his Excellency would have to adopt a different and more complex method of audit the fund than tear !
another witty nobleman narrate how footman with knee - breech and stocking have be import to wait at the ball which the Marshal of the Province have intend to give and that they would now have to be send back , unless the new Marshal would give a ball with stockinged footman .
during the dinner they continually speak of Nevedovsky as ' our Provincial Marshal ' and address he as ' your Excellency . '
this be utter with the same pleasure with which a newly - married woman be address as Madame and call by her husband 's name .
Nevedovsky pretend not merely to be indifferent to but to despise this title ; but it be evident that he feel happy and exercise self - control to avoid betray a delight ill - suit to the new liberal circle in which they find themselves .
during the dinner several telegram be send to person interested in the election .
Oblonsky , who be feel very jolly , send one to Dolly which run as follow : ' Nevedovsky elect by majority of twenty .
congratulation .
tell news . '
he dictate it aloud , say , ' I must cheer they up ! '
but dolly , on receive the telegram , only sigh over the rouble it have cost , and understand that it have be send toward the end of a dinner .
she know that Steve have a weakness at the end of a dinner - party faire jouer le télégraphe . [ to set the telegraph go . ]
everything , include the splendid dinner and the wine – which do not come from russian merchant but be import ready - bottled from abroad – be very distinguished , simple , and gay .
the company of twenty man have be select by Sviyazhsky from adherent of the new movement and from Liberals , man who be also witty and respectable .
health be drunk , also half in jest , to the new Provincial Marshal , to the Governor , to the Bank Director , and to ' our amiable host . '
Vronsky be satisfied .
he have not at all expect to find such a pleasant tone in the province .
when dinner be over thing become still merrier .
the Governor ask Vronsky to accompany he to a concert in aid of a ' Brotherhood , ' which be be arrange by his wife , who wish to make Vronsky 's acquaintance .
' there will be a ball afterwards and you will see our Society beauty !
really , she be quite remarkable . '
' not in my line , ' answer Vronsky , who be fond of that english expression , but he smile and promise to come .
when they have already quit the table and have all begin smoking , Vronsky 's valet come up to he with a letter on a salver .
' from Vozdvizhensk , by express messenger , ' he say with a significant glance .
' it be extraordinary how much he resemble the Public Prosecutor Sventitsky , ' remark one of the guest in French of the valet , while Vronsky , frown , read his letter .
the letter be from Anna .
even before he read it he know its content .
expect the election to end in five day , he have promise to return on the Friday .
it be now Saturday , and he know that the letter contain reproach for his not having return punctually .
the letter he have send off the evening before have probably not yet reach she .
the content of the letter be just what he expect , but its form be unexpected and particularly unpleasant to he .
' Annie be very ill . the doctor say it may be inflammation .
I lose my head when alone .
the Princess Barbara be not a help but a hindrance .
I expect you the day before yesterday , and yesterday , and be now send to find out where you be and what the matter be .
I wish to come myself , but change my mind know that you would not like it .
give I some reply that I may know what to do . '
Baby be ill , and she wish to come herself ?
their child ill , and this hostile tone !
the innocent mirth of the election and this dismal burdensome love to which he must return strike Vronsky by their contrast .
but he have to go , and he take the first train that night for his home .
before vronsky went to the election Anna , having consider that the scene which take place between they every time he go away could only tend to estrange they instead of bind they close , resolve to make every possible effort to bear the separation calmly .
but the cold , stern look on his face when he come to tell she he be go offend she , and even before he have go her composure be upset .
later on , meditate in solitude on that look – which express his right to freedom – she , as usual , come only to a consciousness of her own humiliation .
' he have the right to go when and where he please .
not only to go away , but to leave I .
he have every right and I have none at all .
but , know this , he ought not to do it !
but really what have he do ...
he have look at I coldly and severely .
of course it be indefinable , intangible , but it be not so formerly , and that look mean much , ' she think . ' that look show that he be begin to grow cold . '
though she be convince that this be the case , she could not do anything , could not in any way change her relation to he .
just as heretofore , she could hold he only by mean of her love and attractiveness ; and just as heretofore , only by occupation by day and morphia by night could she stifle the terrible thought of what would happen if he cease to love she .
true , there be one mean , not of hold he – for that purpose she wish for nothing except his love – but of put herself in such a position that he could not abandon she .
that mean be divorce and marriage .
she begin to wish for this , and decide to agree the first time he or Steve should mention it to she .
with these thought in her mind she spend five day , the day she expect he to be away .
walk , talk with the Princess Barbara , visit to the hospital , and above all reading , read one book after another , fill her time .
but on the sixth day , when the coachman return from the station without he , she feel that she be no long able to stifle the thought of he and of what he be do .
just then her little girl fall ill .
Anna nurse she , but this do not divert her thought especially as the illness be not dangerous .
try as she might she could not love that child and she could not make a pretence of love .
toward the evening of that day , be alone , Anna feel such terror on Vronsky 's account that she decide to go to town , but after careful consideration she write that contradictory letter which Vronsky receive , and without read it over she send it by express messenger .
next morning she receive his letter and regret her own .
she anticipate with horror a repetition of that stern look he have throw at she when leave , especially when he should learn that the little girl be not dangerously ill .
but still she be glad she have write .
Anna now acknowledge to herself that he be weary of she and would regret give up his freedom to return to she ; yet in spite of this she be glad that he would come .
let he feel weary , but let he be here with she so that she might see he and know his every movement .
she be sit in the drawing - room , read by lamplight a new book by Taine , listen to the wind outside , and expect every moment the arrival of the carriage .
several time she have think she hear the sound of wheel but have be mistaken ; at last she hear not only the wheel but also the coachman 's voice and a dull rumble in the portico .
even the Princess Barbara , who be play patience , confirm this , and Anna , flush , rise , but instead of go downstairs , as she have already do twice , she stand still .
she suddenly feel ashamed of having deceive he and still more afraid of how he might treat she .
the feeling of injury have already pass , and she only fear the expression of his displeasure .
she remember that the child have be quite well since yesterday .
she be even vex with she for having recover as soon as the letter have be send .
then she recollect that he be here , all of he , his hand , his eye .
she hear his voice , and forget everything else run joyfully to meet he .
' well , how be Annie ? ' he ask timidly , look up at Anna as she run down to he .
he be sit on a chair , and the footman be pull off his warm boot .
' oh , it be nothing ! she be well . '
' and you ? ' he ask , give himself a shake .
she take his hand in both hers and draw it to her waist , not take her eye off he .
' well , I be very glad , ' he say , coldly survey her coiffure and the dress which , he know , she have put on for he .
all this please he , but it have already please he so often !
and the stern and stony look , which she so dread , settle on his face .
' well , I be very glad .
and you be well ? ' say he , wipe his wet beard with his handkerchief , and kiss her hand .
' no matter , ' she think , ' if only he be here . when he be here he can not and dare not fail to love I ! '
the evening pass happily and cheerfully in the company of the Princess Barbara , who complain to he that in his absence Anna have be take morphia .
' what be I to do ?
I could not sleep ...
my thought keep I awake .
when he be here I never take it , or hardly ever . '
he tell she about the election , and Anna know how by question to lead he on to just what please he – his success .
she tell he about everything that interest he at home , and all her news be most cheerful .
but late at night , when they be alone , Anna , see that she have regain full mastery of he , want to efface the depressing impression of the look he give she apropos of the letter , and say :
' but confes that you be vex to get my letter , and do not believe I ? '
as soon as she have say this she know that , however lovingly disposed he might be to she , he have not forgive she for that letter .
' yes , ' he answer . ' it be such a strange letter .
Annie be ill , yet you wish to come yourself ! '
' that be all true . '
' I do not doubt it . '
' yes , you do doubt it !
I see you be displeased . '
' not for a moment .
I be only displeased , really , that you seem not to wish to admit that there be duty ... '
' duty to go to a concert ... '
' do not let we talk about it , ' he say .
' why should we not talk about it ? ' she reply .
' I only wish to say that one may have unavoidable business .
now , for instance , I shall have to go to Moscow about the house ...
oh , Anna , why be you so irritable ?
do not you know that I can not live without you ? '
' if that be so , ' reply Anna in a suddenly change voice , ' it must be that you be weary of this life ...
yes , you will come for a day and go away again , as man do ... '
' Anna , that be cruel .
I be ready to give my whole life ... '
but she do not listen to he .
' if you go to Moscow , I shall go too !
I will not stop here .
either we must separate or live together . '
' you know that that be my desire !
but for that ... '
' a divorce be necessary ?
I will write to he !
I see I can not live like this ...
but I will go to Moscow with you . '
' you speak as if you be threaten I !
why , I do not wish for anything so much as not to be separate from you , ' say Vronsky , smilingly .
but not a cold look only but the angry look of a hunted and exasperated man flash in his eye as he speak those tender word .
she see that look and rightly guess its meaning .
the look say , ' if so , this be a misfortune ! '
it be a momentary impression , but she never forget it .
Anna write to her husband ask he for a divorce and at the end of November , having part from the Princess Barbara , who have to go to Petersburg , she move to Moscow with Vronsky .
Daily expect Karenin 's reply , to be follow by a divorce , they now establish themselves like a married couple .
PART VII
the levin had be MORE than two month in MOSCOW .
the date on which , accord to the most exact calculation of person experience in such matter , Kitty should have be confine have long pass ; but she have not yet be deliver , nor be there any sign that the time be near now than it have be two month previously .
the doctor , the midwife , Dolly , her mother , and especially Levin ( who could not think without horror of what be come ) , begin to experience impatience and anxiety ; Kitty alone be perfectly calm and happy .
she now distinctly realize the awakening of a new sense of tenderness for the come ( and for she to some extent already exist ) child , and she yield with pleasure to that feeling .
it be no long entirely part of herself , but now and then live its own independent life .
sometimes this occasion her pain , but at the same time she want to laugh because of this strange new joy .
all whom she love be with she , and all be so kind to she and so attentive , and everything be present to she in so pleasant an aspect , that have she not know it must soon come to an end she could not have desire a well or pleasanter life .
the only thing that mar the charm of this life be that her husband be not as she love he well , not as he use to be in the country .
she love his quiet , kindly and hospitable manner on his estate .
in town he always seem restless and on his guard , as if afraid lest some one should insult he or , bad still , she .
there , on his estate , feel that he be in his right place , he be never in a hurry to go anywhere and be always occupy .
here in town he be always in a hurry , as if fear to miss something , and yet he have nothing to do .
she be sorry for he .
she know that to other he do not appear to need pity . on the contrary , when Kitty watch he in company – as one sometimes watch a person one love , try to see he from a stranger 's point of view , so as to realize the impression he make on other – she see , even with some jealous fear , that far from need pity he be very attractive , by his good breeding , his rather old - fashioned and timid politeness to woman , his powerful figure , and , as she think , his uncommonly expressive face .
but she understand he not from without but from within and see that in town he be not himself ; she could not otherwise define his condition .
sometimes in her heart she reproach he for not know how to live in town ; at other time she confess that it be really hard for he to arrange his life here satisfactorily .
indeed , what could he do ?
he do not care for card .
he do not go to the club .
she know now what consort with gay people of Oblonsky 's sort mean – it mean drinking and then drive somewhere ...
she could not think without horror of where man drive to in such case .
go into Society ?
but she know that to do so he would have to find pleasure in be with young woman and she could not wish that .
stay at home with she and her mother and sister ?
but , agreeable and amusing as the same oft - repeat conversation might be to she – talk about ' Alines and Nadines , ' as the old Prince call those talk between the sister – she know they must bore he .
then what be leave for he to do ?
continue to write his book ?
he do try to do it , and begin by go to a public library to take note and look up reference he require ; but , as he explain to she , the less he do the less time he seem to have .
and he also complain that he have talk too much about his book here , so that all his idea have become confused and he have lose interest in they .
the one advantage of this town - life be that here they never quarrel .
whether it be that the condition of town - life be different , or that they have both grow more careful and reasonable in this respect – at any rate in Moscow they never have quarrel result from jealousy such as they have fear when they move to town .
an event even occur of great importance to they both in this respect , namely , Kitty 's meeting with Vronsky .
the old Princess , Mary Borisovna , Kitty 's godmother , who have always be very fond of she , particularly wish to see she .
though Kitty be not go out anywhere because of her condition , yet she go with her father to see the venerable old lady , and there meet Vronsky .
the only thing Kitty could reproach herself with when that visit be over be that for an instant , on recognize Vronsky 's once so familiar figure in his civilian clothe , she grow breathless , the blood rush to her heart , and she feel a deep flush suffuse her face .
but this last only a few second .
her father , purposely address Vronsky in a loud voice , have not finish what he be say before she be quite ready to face Vronsky , and if need be to converse with he just as she converse with the Princess Mary Borisovna ; especially so that everything down to the light intonation and smile might be approve by her husband , whose unseen presence she seem to feel above she at that moment .
she exchange a few word with Vronsky , and even smile at a joke he make about the election , to which he allude as ' our parliament . '
( she have to smile to show that she understand the joke . )
but she at once turn to the Princess Mary Borisovna and do not once look round at Vronsky till he rise to go . then she look at he , but evidently only because it be impolite not to look at a man when he be bow to you .
she be grateful to her father for not say anything to she about this encounter with Vronsky ; but , by his peculiar tenderness to she during their daily walk after the visit , she see that he be pleased with she .
she be pleased with herself .
she have not at all expect to find strength to shut down somewhere deep in her heart all memory of her former feeling for this man , and not merely to appear but really to be quite tranquil and calm in his presence .
Levin blush much more than she have do when she tell he she have meet Vronsky at the Princess Mary Borisovna 's .
it be very difficult for she to tell he this , and still more difficult to go on give he detail of the meeting , as he do not ask anything , but only frown and look at she .
' I be very sorry you be not there , ' she say ; ' I do not mean present in the room ... I should not have behave so naturally with you there ...
I be now blush much more – much , much more , ' she add , blush to tear , ' but I be sorry you could not look through a crack . '
her truthful eye tell Levin that she be satisfied with herself , and in spite of her blush he grow calm at once and begin question she , which be just what she want .
when he have hear all , down to the fact that just for the first second she could not help blush , but that afterwards she have feel as natural and easy as with anyone she might happen to meet , he become quite happy and say he be very glad it have happen and in future he would not behave as stupidly as he have do at the election , but would try to be as friendly as possible with Vronsky next time he meet he .
' it be so painful to think that there be a man who be almost my enemy , – whom I dislike to meet , ' say Levin . ' I be very , very glad ! '
' well then , please call ON the bols , ' say Kitty to her husband when , at about eleven o'clock in the morning he come to her room before go out . ' I know you be dine at the club .
Papa put your name down . but what be you go to do this morning ? '
' only go to see Katavasov , ' answer Levin .
' why so early ? '
' he promise to introduce I to Metrov .
I want to have a talk with he about my work . he be a celebrated Petersburg scholar , ' reply Levin .
' oh yes ! it be his article you praise so ?
well , and then ? ' inquire Kitty .
' then I may call round at the Courts about my sister 's case . '
' and the concert ? '
' oh , what be the good of my go alone ? '
' oh yes , do go ! they be give those new piece ...
it use to interest you so .
I should certainly go . '
' well , in any case I will come back before dinner , ' he say , glance at his watch .
' but put on a morning coat , so that you can call on the Countess Bol on the way . '
' be it absolutely necessary then ? '
' yes , absolutely !
he call on we .
why , where be the difficulty ?
you will call on your way , you will sit down , talk about the weather for five minute , and then get up and go away . '
' well , will you believe it ? I have get so out of the habit that it make I feel ashamed .
a stranger arrive , sit down , remain a while do nothing , disturb they , upset himself , and go away again . '
Kitty laugh :
' but as a bachelor you use to pay call ? ' she say .
' I do , but I always feel ashamed , and now I be so out of the habit of it that , seriously , I would rather go without dinner for two day than pay that call !
it be so embarrassing !
I feel the whole time that they will be offend and will say , " why have you come when you have no business here ? " '
' no , they will not be offend .
I will vouch for that ! ' say Kitty , look laughingly into his face .
she take his hand . ' well , good - bye ! ...
please call on they ! '
he be about to go after kiss her hand , when she stop he .
' Kostya , do you know I have only fifty rouble leave ? '
' well , what of that ? I will call at the bank and get some ...
how much ? ' he ask , with a dissatisfied look familiar to she .
' no , wait a moment . ' she hold he by the hand .
' let us talk it over , it bother I . I do not think I spend on anything superfluous , and yet the money simply fly away !
there be something we do not do right . '
' not at all , ' he say , cough and look at she from under his brow .
she know that cough .
with he it be a sign of great displeasure , not with she but with himself .
he be really dissatisfied , not because they have spend so much but because he have be remind of a matter which , well know that something be wrong , he wish to forget .
' I have tell Sokolov to sell the wheat and draw the money for the mill in advance .
we shall have money in any case . '
' yes , but I be afraid that in general too much ... '
' not at all , not at all ! ' he repeat . ' well , good - bye , darling ! '
' but , really , sometimes I be sorry I listen to Mama !
how nice it would have be in the country !
as it be I have wear you all out , and we be waste money ... '
' not at all , not at all !
not once since our marriage have I say to myself that thing might have be well than they be ... '
' be that true ? ' she say , look into his eye .
he have say it without think , to comfort she .
but when he look and see those dear , truthful eye questioningly fix on he , he repeat the word from the bottom of his heart .
' decidedly I be forget she , ' he think , remember what be so soon await they .
' will it be soon ?
how do you feel ? ' he whisper , take both her hand in his .
' I have so often think so , that now I have give up thinking . '
' and you be not afraid ? '
she smile contemptuously .
' not an atom ! ' she answer .
' well , should there be anything – I shall be at Katavasov 's . '
' no , there will not be anything : do not imagine it .
I shall go for a walk on the boulevard with Papa .
we will call at Dolly 's .
I will expect you before dinner ...
oh , yes !
do you know , Dolly 's situation be become quite impossible !
she be deep in debt , and have no money .
Mama and I be talk about it with Arseny ' ( so she call her sister 's , the Princess Lvova 's , husband ) , ' and we decide to set you and he at Steve .
it be quite impossible .
we can not speak to Papa about it ...
but if you and he ... '
' but what can we do ? ' say Levin .
' well , anyhow , you will see Arseny . have a talk with he , and he will tell you what we decide . '
' I be ready to agree with Arseny beforehand .
well , I will call on he then ...
by the way , if I go to the concert , I will go with Nataly .
well , good - bye ! '
at the porch Kuzma , an old servant of his bachelor day , who be now manage the household in town , stop Levin .
' Krasavchik ' ( one of the pair of carriage horse bring from the country ) ' have be re - shod but still go lame , ' say he . ' what be your order ? '
on first come to Moscow Levin have take an interest in the horse they bring from the country .
he want to arrange the matter as well and as cheaply as possible ; but it turn out that their own horse cost they more than hire one would have do , and they hire horse as well .
' send for the vet , maybe it be a bruise . '
' yes , and what will Catherine Alexandrovna do ? ' ask Kuzma .
Levin no long think it strange , as he have do when he first come to Moscow , that to go from the Vozdvizhenka Street to Sivtsev - Vrazhek it be necessary to harness a pair of strong horse to a heavy carriage to drive through the snowy slush a quarter of a verst , to keep the carriage wait there for four hour , and to pay five rouble for it .
now all this seem quite natural .
' hire a pair of horse , to be harness to our carriage . '
' yes , sir ! '
and , thank to the condition of town life , having thus simply and easily solve a difficulty which in the country would have require much exertion and personal attention , Levin go out , call an izvoshchik , and drive to the Nikitskaya .
on his way he think no more about money , but consider how he could make the acquaintance of the Petersburg scholar , who be study sociology , and how he would talk to he about his book .
only during the very first day in Moscow have the unproductive but inevitable expenditure , so strange to country folk , yet demand on all side , startle Levin .
now he be use to it .
in this respect the thing have happen to he which be say to happen to drunkard . ' the first glass you drive in like a stake , the second fly like a crake , and after the third they fly like wee little bird . '
when he have change the first hundred - rouble note to buy livery for the footman and hall porter , he have involuntarily calculate that those useless livery – which , however , be absolutely necessary , judge by the surprise of the old Princess and Kitty at his hint that one could do without livery – would cost as much as the hire of two labourer for the summer month , that is , of one for about three hundred working day between Easter and Advent – and each a day of heavy labour from early morning till late in the evening .
he part with that hundred - rouble note not without a struggle . the next such note he change to buy provision for a family dinner , cost twenty - eight rouble ; and though he remember that twenty - eight rouble be the price of nine chetvert of oats mow , bind into sheaf , thresh , winnow , sift , and shovel with sweat and groan , nevertheless it go more easily than the first .
the note he now change no long evoke such calculation , but fly away like wee bird .
whether the pleasure afford by what it purchase correspond to the labour expend in acquire the money be a consideration long since lose sight of .
his farming calculation that there be a price below which certain grain must not be sell be forget too .
the rye – after he have so long hold out for a certain price – be sell fifty kopeks a chetvert cheap than have be offer he a month ago .
even the calculation that it would be impossible to live for a year at that rate of expenditure without run into debt – even that calculation have lose its meaning .
the one thing needful be to have money in the bank , without ask whence it come , so as to be always sure of the wherewithal to get to - morrow 's beef .
till now he have always observe that rule ; he have always have money in the bank .
but now he have no money remain there , and do not quite know where to get any .
it be this that have upset he for a moment when Kitty remind he about money ; however , he have no time to think about it .
while drive he think of Katavasov and of make Metrov 's acquaintance .
during his stay in Moscow Levin have renew his intimacy with his fellow - student of university day , now Professor Katavasov , whom he have not see since his marriage .
he like Katavasov because of his clear and simple outlook on life .
Levin think Katavasov 's clear outlook result from the poverty of his nature and Katavasov think Levin 's inconsequential opinion result from a lack of mental discipline ; but Katavasov 's clarity please Levin , and the abundance of Levin 's undisciplined thought please Katavasov , so they like to meet and argue .
Levin have read some part of his book to Katavasov , who like it .
happen to meet Levin at a public lecture the previous day , Katavasov have tell he that the celebrated Metrov , whose article have so pleased Levin , be in Moscow and be much interested in what Katavasov have tell he of Levin 's work , that he would be at his house next day about eleven in the morning and would be very pleased to make Levin 's acquaintance .
' decidedly you be improve – quite a pleasure to see it , ' say Katavasov as he welcome Levin in the little drawing - room . ' I hear the bell and think " it be impossible he can have come punctually . " ...
well , what d'you think of the Montenegrins ?
they be bear warrior ! '
' what be happen ? ' ask Levin .
Katavasov in a few word tell he the late news , and , take he into the study , introduce Levin to a tall , sturdy , and very agreeable - look man .
it be Metrov .
the conversation rest for a time on politic and on how the high circle in Petersburg regard the late event .
Metrov quote word an the subject attribute to the Emperor and one of the Ministers , which he have from a reliable source .
Katavasov , however , have hear with equal definiteness that the Emperor say something quite different .
Levin try to imagine a situation in which both utterance might have be make , and the subject be drop .
' he have write almost a book on the natural condition of the labourer in relation to the land , ' say Katavasov . ' I be not a specialist , but as a naturalist I like his not take humanity as something outside zoological law but on the contrary regard it as dependent on its surrounding , and search in this dependence for the law of its development . '
' that be very interesting , ' say Metrov .
' I really begin to write a book on agriculture , but be occupy with the chief instrument in agriculture , the labourer , ' say Levin with a blush , ' I involuntarily arrive at quite unexpected result . ' and Levin begin carefully , as if feel his way , to expound his view . he know that Metrov have write an article run counter to the generally accept teaching of political economy ,
but how far he could hope for his sympathy with his own novel view Levin do not know , and could not gather from the expression of the Professor 's quiet and intelligent face .
' but in what do you perceive the peculiar quality of the russian worker ? ' ask Metrov . ' in his zoological quality , so to say , or in the condition in which he be place ? '
Levin detect in this very question a thought with which he do not agree ; but he continue to expound his view , which be that the russian labourer 's view of the land be quite different from that of other nation .
to illustrate this theory he hasten to add that , in his opinion , the russian people view result from their consciousness of a vocation to populate the vast unoccupied tract in the East .
' it be easy to be lead astray when draw conclusion as to the general vocation of a people , ' say Metrov , interrupt Levin . ' the condition of the labourer will always depend on his relation to land and capital . '
and without let Levin finish explain his idea , Metrov begin expound to he the peculiarity of his own teaching .
what that peculiarity consist in Levin do not understand , because he do not even try to do so . he see that Metrov , like the other , despite the article in which he refuse the teaching of the economist , still regard the position of the russian labourer merely from the standpoint of capital , wage , and rent .
though he have to admit that in the eastern and great part of Russia rent be still nil , that wage – for nine - tenth of the eighty million of the russian population – represent only sustenance for themselves , and that capital do not yet exist except in the form of most primitive tool yet he regard every labourer merely from that one point of view , though on many point he disagree with the economist and have his own theory of wage , which he explain to Levin .
Levin listen reluctantly and at first make objection .
he want to interrupt Metrov and to state his own idea , which he consider would render a further statement of Metrov 's view superfluous .
but afterwards , having convince himself that they look at the question so differently that they would never understand one another , he cease make objection and merely listen .
though what Metrov be say now no long interest he at all , he feel some pleasure all the same in hear he .
his vanity be flatter by the fact that so learn a man should explain his opinion to he so willingly , so carefully , and with such faith in Levin 's knowledge of the subject that he sometimes by a mere hint indicate a whole aspect of the matter .
Levin attribute this to his own worth , not know that Metrov , who have exhaust the matter with all his intimate , be particularly pleased to speak about it to any fresh person , and , in general , willingly speak to everybody about the subject with which he be occupy and which be not yet clear to himself .
' I be afraid we shall be late , ' say Katavasov , glance at the clock as soon as Metrov have finish his disquisition .
' yes , there be a meeting of the Society of Amateurs in honour of Svintich 's jubilee , ' Katavasov go on , in answer to Levin 's inquiry . ' Peter Ivanovich ' ( Metrov ) ' and I have arrange to go .
I have promise to read a paper on his work on Zoology .
come with we , it will be very interesting . '
it be quite time , ' remark Metrov . ' come with we , and then , if you care to , come home with I .
I should very much like to hear your work . '
' oh no , it be still so unfinished !
but I shall be pleased to go to the meeting . '
' and have you hear ?
I give in a separate report , ' Katavasov call out from the next room , where he be change his coat .
they begin a conversation about a controversy in the university , which be one of the most important event in Moscow that winter .
three old professor on the Council have not accept the opinion of the young one ; the young one present a separate resolution .
this resolution be , in the opinion of some people , a dreadful one , while accord to other it be very simple and just . the professor be divide into two camp .
the side to which Katavasov belong accuse their opponent of mean treachery and deception ; while the other impute youthfulness and disrespect for authority .
Levin , though he do not belong to the university , have since his arrival in Moscow more than once hear and converse about this affair , and have form his own opinion on the subject ; and he take part in the conversation which be continue in the street until they all three arrive at the old university building .
the meeting have already begin .
at the table cover with a cloth at which Katavasov and Metrov take their seat six man be sit , and one of they , with his head bent close over a manuscript , be read something .
Levin take one of the vacant chair which be stand round the table , and in a whisper ask a student who be sit there what be be read .
with a displeased look at Levin the student reply :
' the biography ! '
though the biography of the scientist do not interest Levin , he listen involuntarily and learn a few interesting fact about the celebrated man 's life .
when the reader have finish , the chairman thank he and read aloud some verse for the jubilee send by the poet Ment , add a few word of thank to the poet .
then Katavasov , in his loud strident voice , read his paper on the scientific work of the man whose jubilee it be .
when Katavasov have finish , Levin look at his watch , see that it be get on for two , and think that there would be no time to read his manuscript to Metrov before the concert , and besides , he no long feel inclined to do so .
during the reading he have also be think about the talk they have have .
it be now clear to he that though Metrov 's view might perhaps be of importance , his own idea be of importance too , and these view could be formulate and lead to result only if each of they work separately along the line he have select , but communicate they to one another could not lead to any result .
make up his mind to decline Metrov 's invitation , therefore , Levin approach he as soon as the meeting end .
Metrov introduce he to the chairman , with whom he be discuss the political news .
in this connection Metrov tell the chairman the same thing that he have already tell Levin , and Levin make the same remark as he have make in the morning , but for the sake of diversity express also a new view of his own – which have but just enter his head .
after that they begin talk about the university question .
as Levin have already hear all that , he hasten to tell Metrov that he regret he be unable to accept his invitation , shake hand , and drive off to the Lvovs ' .
LVOV , who be married to Kitty 's sister Nataly , have pass all his life in the capital and abroad , where he have be educate and where he have be in the diplomatic service .
the year before , he have quit the diplomatic service , not because of any unpleasantness ( he never have unpleasantness with anyone ) , but have exchange into the Moscow Court Ministry in order to be able to give his boy the good education .
despite very acute difference in their habit and opinion , and the fact that Lvov be old than Levin , they become very intimate and attach to one another that winter .
Levin find Lvov at home , and enter unannounced .
wear an indoor jacket with a belt , morocco leather shoe , and with a pince - nez of blue glass on his nose , Lvov sit in an easy - chair read a book lie on a lectern before he , and carefully hold at a distance in his shapely hand a cigar half turn to ashe .
his handsome , refine , and still young - look face , to which the curly , glossy , silver hair give a still more well - breed appearance , light up with a smile when he see Levin .
' good !
and I be just go to send to you . well , and how be Kitty ?
take this chair , it be more comfortable . '
he rise and push forward a rocking - chair . ' have you read the last circular in the Journal de St Petersbourg ?
I think it splendid , ' say he with a slightly french accent .
Levin tell he what he have hear from Katavasov of what be say in Petersburg , and , after some talk on politic , Levin recount how he have make Metrov 's acquaintance and have go to the meeting .
this interested Lvov very much .
' there now ! I envy you for have the entrance to that interesting scientific world , ' he say , and having start talk he change , as he usually do , into French , which he speak more easily .
' it be true I have no time to spare , my work and occupation with the child deprive I of that ; besides , I be not ashamed to confess that my education be far too insufficient . '
' I do not think so , ' say Levin with a smile , feel , as usual , touch by the other 's low opinion of himself , which be not in the least affected from desire to appear , or even to be , modest , but be quite sincere .
' oh , yes !
I now feel how little educate I be !
even for the child 's lesson I often have to refresh my memory , or even simply to learn thing .
for it be not enough to have master , one must have a supervisor as well , just as you have both labourer and an overseer on your estate .
I be just read , ' and he show Levin Buslaev 's grammar which lie on the lectern . ' they expect Misha to know this , and it be so difficult ...
will you explain this to I ?
he say here ... '
Levin try to explain that it be impossible to understand it and that it must just be learn by heart ; but Lvov do not agree with he .
' yes ! you laugh at it ! '
' on the contrary ! you have no idea how , when I see you , I be always learn what await I – the education of my child . '
' oh , come ! you 've nothing to learn from I ! ' say Lvov .
' all I know be that I never see well bring up child than yours , ' say Levin , ' and do not wish for well child . '
Lvov evidently try to restrain the expression of his delight , but a radiant smile light up his face .
' if only they turn out well than I !
that be all I desire .
you do not yet know all the difficulty one have with boy who , like mine , have be neglect through our life abroad , ' say he .
' they will catch it all up .
they be such gifted child !
the chief thing be the moral training .
that be what I learn by watch your child . '
' you talk of moral training !
you can not imagine how difficult that be !
you have hardly master one fault when another crop up and there be a fresh struggle .
one must have the support of religion – you remember our talk about that ? ... no father rely on his own strength , without that support , could educate a child . '
this conversation , on a topic that always interested Levin , be cut short by the entrance of the beautiful Nataly Alexandrovna , who come in dressed to go out .
' oh , I do not know you be here , ' she say , evidently not at all sorry but rather pleased at having interrupt a conversation which she have hear long ago , and of which she be weary . ' and how be Kitty ?
I be dine with you to - day .
look here , Arseny , ' she say , turn to her husband , ' you will take the carriage ... '
and husband and wife begin discuss what they would do that day . as the husband have to go and meet some one officially , and the wife be go to the concert and then to a public meeting of the South - Eastern Committee , there be much to decide and arrange .
Levin , as one of the family , have to take part in the deliberation .
it be settle that Levin would drive with Nataly to the concert and to the public meeting , and from there they would send the carriage to the office to fetch Arseny , who would call for his wife and take she on to Kitty 's , or if he be detain by business he would send the carriage back , and Levin would accompany she .
' he spoil I , you know , ' say Lvov to his wife , indicate Levin . ' he assure I that our child be splendid , though I see so much that be bad in they . '
' Arseny go to extreme , as I always tell he , ' say his wife . ' if you look for perfection , you will never be satisfied .
what Papa say be perfectly true ; when we be bring up they go to one extreme , and keep we child in the attic while our parent live on the first floor ; but now it be just the reverse – the lumber room for the parent and the first floor for the child !
nowadays parent be hardly allow to live , and everything be for the child . '
' why not , if that be pleasanter ? ' say Lvov with his handsome smile , touch her hand . ' those who do not know you would think you be not a mother but a stepmother ! '
' no , extreme be not right in any case , ' say Nataly quietly , put his paper - knife in its right place on the table .
' ah ! come here , you perfect child ! ' say Lvov to two little boy , who , after bow to Levin , approach their father , evidently wish to ask he something .
Levin want to talk to they and hear what they would say to their father , but Nataly speak to he , and then Makhotin , a fellow official of Lvov 's , come in Court uniform to fetch Lvov to meet some one ; and an unending conversation begin about Herzegovina , the Princess Korzinskaya , the Duma , and the Countess Apraxina 's sudden death .
Levin have forget the commission he have be charge with and only remember it when on his way to the ante - room .
' oh , Kitty wish I to have a talk with you about Oblonsky , ' he say , when Lvov pause on the stair as he be see his wife and Levin down .
' yes , yes . Maman wish we , les beaux frères , [ the brother - in - law . ] to come down on he , ' say Lvov , blushing . but why should I ?
' well then , I will be down on he ! ' say his wife smile , as she stand in her white fur - line cloak wait for they to finish their talk . ' come , let we go ! '
at the MATINÉE concert there be two very interesting item .
one be King Lear on the Heath , a fantasia , and the other be a quartet dedicate to the memory of Bach .
both piece be new and in the new style , and Levin be lead to form an opinion on they .
when he have conduct his sister - in - law to her seat , he take his station behind a pillar , resolve to listen as attentively and as conscientiously as possible .
he try not to let his mind wander nor to let his impression of the music be mar by look at the white - tie conductor 's arm - waving , which always so unpleasantly distract one 's attention from the music ; nor by the lady with their bonnet , the ribbon of which be so carefully tie over their ear for the concert , nor by all those other person who be either not interested in anything or be interested in all sort of thing other than music .
he carefully avoid the musical expert and great talker , and stand with lower eye gaze straight before he , listen .
but the long he listen to the King Lear fantasia , the far he feel from the possibility of form any definite opinion .
the musical expression of some emotion seem perpetually on the point of beginning , when it suddenly break into fragment of the expression of other emotion or even into unrelated sound which , elaborate though they be , be only connect by the whim of the composer .
even these fragment of musical expression , though some of they be good , be unpleasing because they be quite unexpected and unprepared for .
mirth , sadness , despair , tenderness , triumph come forth without any cause , like the thought of a madman .
and , as in the mind of a madman , these emotion vanish just as unexpectedly .
throughout the performance Levin feel like a deaf person watch a dance .
he be quite perplexed when the music stop and feel very tired as a result of strained attention quite unrewarded .
from all side come loud applause .
every one rise , begin to walk about , and to talk .
wish to clear up his own perplexity by hear other people 's impression , Levin go to look for the expert , and be pleased to find a celebrated one chat with his own acquaintance , Pestsov .
' wonderful ! ' Pestsov be say in his deep bass .
' how do you do , Constantine Dmitrich ? ... especially shapely , plastic , and rich in colour , if one may say so , be the passage where you feel the approach of Cordelia , the woman , da ewige Weibliche , [ the eternal feminine . ] and she enter upon a struggle with fate . '
' why , what have Cordelia to do with it ? ' Levin ask timidly , having quite forget that the fantasia present King Lear on the heath .
' cordelia appear ... here ! ' say Pestsov , tap with his finger the glossy programme he be hold , and hand it to Levin .
only then do Levin recollect the title of the fantasia , and hasten to read the russian translation of a passage from Shakespeare , which be print on the back .
' you can not follow without it , ' say Pestsov turning to Levin , as the man he have be talk to have go away and he have no one else to talk to .
during the interval Levin and Pestsov begin a discussion on the merit and defect of the wagnerian tendency in music .
Levin maintain that the mistake of Wagner and of all his follower lie in try to make music enter the domain of another art , and that poetry commit the same error when it depict the feature of a face , which should be do by painting , and , as an example of this kind of error , he mention a sculptor who try to chisel the shadow of poetic image arise round the pedestal of his statue of a poet .
' the sculptor 's shadow so little resemble shadow that they even cling to a ladder , ' say Levin .
he like this phrase , but could not remember whether he have not use it before , and to Pestsov himself , and after say it he grow embarrassed .
Pestsov argue that art be all one , and that it can only reach its high manifestation by unite all the different kind of art .
Levin could not listen to the second part of the concert , for Pestsov , who stand beside he , talk all the while and find fault with the piece because of its unnecessary and sickly affectation of simplicity , compare it with the simplicity of the pre - raphaelite school of painting .
on go out Levin meet several other acquaintance with whom he talk about politic , music , and mutual friend ; among other he meet Count Bol . he have quite forget his intend visit to he .
' well then , go at once , ' say the Princess Lvova , to whom he mention the matter . ' perhaps they will not receive you , and then call for I at the meeting .
you have time enough . '
' perhaps they don't receive to - DAY ? ' say Levin as he enter the hall of Countess Bol 's house .
' they do ; please walk in , ' say the hall - porter , determinedly help he off with his overcoat .
' what a nuisance ! ' think Levin with a sigh , as he pull off one glove and smooth his hat . ' what be the good of my go in ? and what on earth be I to say to they ? '
as he enter the first drawing - room he meet in the doorway the Countess Bol , who with an anxious and stern expression be give order to a servant .
when she see Levin she smile and ask he into the next room , a small drawing - room , whence come the sound of voice .
in that room , seat in arm - chair , be the Countess 's two daughter and a Moscow Colonel with whom Levin be acquaint .
Levin go up to they , say ' how - do - you - do , ' and sit down on a chair beside the sofa , hold his hat in his hand .
' how be your wife ?
have you be to the concert ?
we could not go .
Mama have to attend the funeral . '
' yes , I have hear ...
how sudden it be ! ' say Levin .
the Countess come in and sit down on the sofa , and she too inquire about his wife and about the concert .
Levin answer , and repeat his remark about the suddenness of the Countess Apraxina 's death .
' but she always be delicate . '
' be you at the opera last night ? '
' yes , I be . '
' be not Lucca splendid ? '
' yes , splendid , ' he reply , and as he be quite indifferent to what they might think of he , he repeat what they have hear hundred of time about the peculiarity of that singer 's talent .
the Countess Bol pretend to be listen .
when he have say enough and pause , the Colonel , who till then have keep silent , begin also to talk about the opera and about the lighting of the opera - house .
at length , having mention the folle journée [ Mad fête . ] that be be get up at Tyurin 's , he laugh , rise noisily , and go away .
Levin rise too , but see by the Countess 's face that it be not yet time for he to leave .
he have to endure another minute or two , so he sit down again .
as , however , he keep on think how silly it be he find nothing to speak about and remain silent .
' you be not go to the public meeting ?
they say it will be very interesting , ' begin the Countess .
' no , but I promise my sister - in - law to call for she there , ' say Levin .
there be a pause , and the mother exchange glance with her daughter .
' well , I expect it be time now , ' think Levin , and rise .
the lady shake hand with he and ask he to tell his wife mille chose [ to give his wife their love . ] from they .
the hall - porter as he help he on with his overcoat ask where he be stay , and at once enter his address in a large well - bind book .
' of course it be all the same to I , but still it make one ashamed , and it be awfully stupid , ' think Levin , comfort himself with the reflection that everybody do it ; and he go on to the meeting of the committee where he have to meet his sister - in - law in order to accompany she to his own home .
at the meeting of the committee there be a great many people and almost the whole of Society .
Levin be in time to hear a summary which everybody say be very interesting .
when that have be read the Society folk gather into a group , and Levin meet Sviyazhsky , who ask he to be sure and come that evening to a meeting of the Agricultural Society where an important report be to be read . he also meet Oblonsky , who have just come from the race , and many other person he know .
Levin again express , and hear , various opinion about the meeting , the new fantasia , and a trial .
but probably as a result of the mental fatigue he be begin to feel , he make a slip when talk of the trial , and he afterwards remember that slip with vexation several time . speak of the punishment await a foreigner , who be be try in Russia , and of how unjust it would be to banish he from the country , Levin repeat what he have hear say the day before by a man he know .
' it seem to I that to send he abroad would be like punish a pike by throw it into the water , ' say Levin ; and only afterwards remember that that thought , apparently give out as his own , and which he have hear from his acquaintance , be take from one of Krylov 's fable , and that his acquaintance have repeat it from a feuilleton .
having conduct his sister - in - law to his house , where he find Kitty cheerful and quite all right , Levin go off to the club .
LEVIN ARRIVED at the club in good TIME .
member and visitor be drive up as he get there .
he have long not be there – not since the day when after leave the university he have live in Moscow and go out into Society .
he remember the club and the external detail of its room , but have quite forget the impression it then make upon he .
but as soon as he enter the semi - circular courtyard , get out of his sledge and enter the porch , where he be meet by a hall - porter with a shoulder - belt who noiselessly open the door and bow to he ; as soon as he see in the hall the coat and golosh of those of the member who realize that it be easy to take off their golosh downstairs than to go up in they ; and as soon as he hear the mysterious ring of the bell that announce his ascent ; and while mount the shallow step of the carpet stair perceive the statue on the landing , and see upstairs the third hall - porter in club livery – whom he recognize , though the man have age – who open the door for he without haste or delay , gaze at the new arrival directly he see all this , Levin be envelop in the old familiar atmosphere of the place , an atmosphere of repose , ease , and propriety .
' let I have your hat , sir , ' say the porter to Levin , who have forget the club rule that hat must be leave at the entrance . ' it be a long time since you be here !
the Prince enter your name yesterday .
Prince Oblonsky be not here yet . '
this hall - porter not only know Levin but know all his connection and relative as well , and at once mention some of his intimate friend .
pass first through a room in which be several screen , and then a room on the right in which be a partition and a fruit - stall , Levin , having overtake and pass an old man who be walk slowly , enter the noisy and crowded dining - room .
he pass among the table , which be nearly all occupy , survey the guest .
here and there he come across all sort of people he know : old and young , some whom he only just know and some with whom he be intimate .
there be not one angry or anxious face among they .
all seem to have leave their care and anxiety behind they in the hall with their hat , and to be prepare to enjoy the material blessing of life at their leisure .
Sviyazhsky and Shcherbatsky , Nevedovsky and the old Prince , Vronsky and Koznyshev , all be there .
' why be you so late ? ' ask the old Prince with a smile , hold out his hand over his shoulder . ' how be Kitty ? ' he add , smooth the table - napkin , which he have tuck in behind a button of his waistcoat .
' she be all right : they be all three dine together . '
' ah ! Alines - Nadines !
well , there be no room at our table .
go to that table , and be quick and secure a seat , ' say the old Prince , and turn away he carefully take a plate of fish soup that be hand to he .
' levin ! here ! ' shout some one a little far off , in a kindly voice .
it be Turovtsin .
he sit beside a young military man , and two chair be tilt against their table .
Levin join they with pleasure .
he always like that good - natured spendthrift Turovtsin ; with he be associate the memory of his proposal to Kitty ; but to - day , after all those strained intellectual conversation , Turovtsin 's good - natured face be particularly welcome .
' these be for you and Oblonsky .
he will be here in a minute . '
the military man , with merry , ever - laugh eye , who hold himself very erect , be Gagin , from Petersburg .
Turovtsin introduce he .
' Oblonsky be always late . '
' ah , here he be ! '
' have you just come ? ' ask Oblonsky , hasten toward they . ' how do you do ?
have any vodka ?
well then , come ! '
Levin rise and go with he to a large table on which stand various kind of vodka and a very varied assortment of hor d'oeuvre .
it might have be think that from a score of different hor d'oeuvre it would be possible to select one to any taste , but Oblonsky order something special , and one of the liveried footman bring it at once .
they drink a glass of vodka each and return to their table .
while they be still at their soup Gagin order a bottle of champagne and have four glass fill .
Levin do not refuse the proffer wine , and order another bottle .
he be hungry , and eat and drink with great pleasure , and with still great pleasure take part in the simple merry talk of his companion .
Gagin , lower his voice , relate a new Petersburg anecdote which , though it be indecent and stupid , be so funny that Levin burst into loud laughter and people turn to look at he .
' that be in the style of the story , " that be just what I can not bear " ; do you know it ? ' ask Oblonsky . ' oh , it be delightful !
bring another bottle ! ... ' he call to the waiter , and immediately begin tell the story .
' with Peter Ilyich Vinovsky 's compliment , ' interrupt an old waiter , bring two delicate glass of still sparkle champagne on a tray , and address Oblonsky and Levin .
Oblonsky take a glass , and exchange a look with a bald , red - haired man with a moustache who sit at the other end of their table , smilingly nod to he .
' who be that ? ' inquire Levin .
' you once meet he at my house , do you remember ?
a nice fellow ! ' .
Levin follow Oblonsky 's example and take the glass .
Oblonsky 's anecdote be very amusing too .
then Levin tell one , which also be appreciate .
then they talk about horse , about that day 's race , and how gallantly Vronsky 's Atlasny have win the first prize .
Levin hardly notice how the dinner pass .
' ah , here they be ! ' say Oblonsky , just as they be finish , lean back in his chair and stretch out his hand to Vronsky , who be approach with a tall Colonel of the Guards .
Vronsky 's face too be light up by the general pleasant good - humour of the club .
Gaily lean his arm on Oblonsky 's shoulder , he whisper something to he , and with the same merry smile hold out a hand to Levin .
' very glad to meet you , ' he say . ' I look for you that day at the election , but be tell you have already leave . '
' yes , I leave that same day .
we be just speak about your horse .
I congratulate you ! ' say Levin . ' that be quick running ! '
' oh yes ; you keep racehorse too ? '
' no ; my father do , and I remember they and know something about they . '
' where do you dine ? ' ask Oblonsky .
' at the second table , behind the pillar . '
' he have be congratulate ! ' remark the Colonel . ' it be the second time he be win the imperial prize . if only I have the luck at card that he have with horse ! ...
but why waste the golden moment ?
I be off to the " infernal region , " add he , and walk away .
' that be Yashvin , ' say Vronsky in reply to Turovtsin 's question , as he take a vacant chair beside they .
he drink a glass of champagne they offer he , and order another bottle .
whether influence by the club or by the wine he have drunk , Levin chat with Vronsky about the good breed of cattle , and be very pleased to find that he have not the least animosity toward the man .
he even tell Vronsky among other thing that he have hear from his wife that she have meet he at the Princess Mary Borisovna 's .
' oh , the Princess Mary Borisovna ! be not she charming ? ' cry Oblonsky , and relate an anecdote about she which make they all laugh .
Vronsky especially burst into such good - natured laughter that Levin feel quite reconcile to he .
' well , have you finish ? ' ask Oblonsky , rise and smile . ' let us go ! '
ON leave the table Levin , feel that as he go his arm swing with unusual regularity and ease , pass with Gagin through the lofty apartment to the billiard - room .
when they have traverse the Large Hall he meet his father - in - law .
' well , and how do you like our Temple of Idleness ? ' say the Prince , give he his arm . ' come , let us walk about a little . '
' yes , a walk be just what I want , and to have a look round .
it interest I . '
' yes , it interest you , but my interest be different to yours .
you look at those old man , ' say the Prince , indicate a round - shoulder member with a hang nether lip , hardly able to shuffle along in his soft boot , who meet and pass they , ' and you imagine they be bear shlyupiks ? '
' Shlyupiks ! what be that ? '
' you see , you do not even know the word !
it be a club term .
you know the game of egg - rolling ? well , an egg that have be roll very often become a shlyupik .
[ a hard - boil egg that have be repeatedly crack till it have become soft and useless for the game . ]
and so it be with ourselves : we keep come and come to the club until we turn into shlyupiks . there !
now you be laugh , but we be already think of how we shall become shlyupiks ... ! you know Prince Chechensky ? ' ask the Prince , and Levin see by his face that he be go to say something droll .
' no , I do not . '
' you do not ?
what , the well - know Prince Chechensky ?
he be always play billiard , you know .
three year ago he be not yet among the shlyupiks and he show a bold front , call other shlyupiks .
well , one day he arrive , and our hall - porter ...
you know vasily ? ...
oh yes , that fat one ; he be a great wit .
well , Prince Chechensky ask he : " I say , vasily , who be here ?
any of the shlyupiks ? "
and vasily reply : " well , yes : you be the third one ! "
yes , my lad ! that be how it be ! '
chat and exchange greeting with acquaintance they chance to meet , Levin and the Prince pass through all the room : the large one , in which card - table be already arrange and habitual partner be play for small stake ; the sofa - room , where they be play chess and where Koznyshev sat talk to some one ; the billiard - room , where by a sofa in a recess a merry party , which include Gagin , be drink champagne . they look in at the ' infernal region ' too , where round a table , at which Yashvin have already take his seat , crowd a number of backer .
take care not to make a noise they enter the dim reading - room , where , under shaded lamp , a young man with an angry countenance sat turn over one newspaper after another , and a bald General be engrossed in what he be read .
they also go into the room which the Prince term ' the wise room . '
there three gentleman be argue about the late political news .
' will you come , Prince ? everything be ready , ' say one of his habitual partner , find he there , and the Prince go away .
Levin sit down for a while and listen , but remember all the conversation he have that day hear , he suddenly feel terribly bored .
he rise hastily and go to look for Oblonsky and Turovtsin , with whom he have feel merry .
Turovtsin , with a tankard of something to drink , be sit on the high sofa in the billiard - room , and Oblonsky be talk to Vronsky by the door in the far corner .
' she be not exactly dull , but that indefinite , unsettled position ... ' Levin overhear , and be hasten away when Oblonsky call he .
' Levin ! ' say he ; and Levin notice that though in Oblonsky 's eye there be not actually tear , they be moist , as they always be when he have be drink or when he felt touch .
to - day it be both . ' levin , do not go , ' he say , hold he tightly by the elbow , evidently not wish to let he go on any account .
' this be my true , almost my good friend , ' he say to Vronsky . ' you too be even more near and dear to I ; and I want you to be friend , and I know that you will be friendly and intimate because you be both good fellow . '
' well , then there be nothing for it but to kiss and be friend ! ' say Vronsky , good - naturedly jest and hold out his hand .
he quickly grasp Levin 's outstretched hand and press it .
' I be very , very glad , ' say Levin , press Vronsky 's hand . ' waiter ! bring a bottle of champagne , ' say Oblonsky .
' and I be glad too , ' say Vronsky .
but in spite of Oblonsky 's wish and theirs they have nothing to say to one another , and both know it .
' you know , he be not acquaint with Anna , ' say Oblonsky to Vronsky . ' and I particularly wish to take he to see she .
let us go , Levin . '
' really ? ' say Vronsky . ' she will be very glad .
I would go home at once , but I be anxious about Yashvin and want to stay here till he have finish . '
' oh , be he in a bad way ? '
' he keep on lose and I alone can restrain he . '
' then what do you say to pyramid ?
Levin , will you play ?
oh , capital , ' say Oblonsky . ' place the ball for pyramid , ' he add , turn to the billiard - marker .
' they have be ready a long time , ' reply the marker , who have already place the ball in a triangle and be roll the red ball about to pass the time .
' well , come along ! '
after the game Vronsky and Levin join Gagin at his table , and at Oblonsky 's invitation Levin begin bet on ace .
Vronsky sit beside the table , surround by friend who be continually come to he , or else go to the ' infernal region ' to see what Yashvin be up to .
Levin experience an agreeable sense of relief from the mental weariness of the morning .
he be glad the hostility between Vronsky and himself be end , and the impression of tranquillity , decorum , and pleasure do not leave he .
when they have finish their play Oblonsky take Levin 's arm .
' well then , let we go to Anna 's .
now , at once !
she will be at home .
I promise she long ago to bring you .
where be you go to - night ? '
' nowhere in particular .
I have promise Sviyazhsky to go to the Agricultural Society 's meeting , but I will come with you if you like , ' reply Levin .
' capital ! let us go ! ...
find out whether my carriage have come , ' say Oblonsky to a footman .
Levin go to the table , pay the forty rouble he have lose bet on the ace , pay the club bill to an old footman who stand by the door and who seem in some miraculous way to know what it come to , and , swinge his arm in a peculiar way , pass through the whole suite of room to the exit .
' the OBLONSKY CARRIAGE ! ' shout the hall - porter in a stern bass .
the carriage drive up and they get in .
only for the first few moment , while they be leave the courtyard of the club , do Levin retain that sense of club calm , pleasure , and undoubted decorum in his surrounding ; but as soon as the carriage have pass out into the street and he feel it jolt on the uneven road , hear the angry shout of an izvoshchik they meet , see in the ill - light street the red signboard of a vodka dealer and of a small shop , that sense be dissipate , and he begin to consider his action and to ask himself whether he be do right in go to see Anna .
' what would Kitty say ? '
but Oblonsky would not let he reflect , and as if guess his doubt try to dispel they .
' how glad I be that you will make her acquaintance , ' say he .
' do you know , Dolly have long wish it : and Lvov call on she and go to see she .
though she be my sister , ' Oblonsky continue , ' I may safely say that she be a remarkable woman .
well , you will see !
her position be a very try one , especially just now . '
' why especially just now ? '
' we be negotiate with her husband about a divorce .
he agree ; but there be difficulty about their son , and the affair , which should have be end long ago , have already be drag on for three month .
as soon as she get the divorce she will marry Vronsky .
how stupid that old ceremony be , walk round and round singing , " rejoice , Isaiah ! " – a ceremony in which nobody believe and which stand in the way of people 's happiness ! ' interpolate Oblonsky . ' well , and then their position will be as definite as mine or yours . '
' what be the difficulty ? ' ask Levin .
' oh , that be a long and tiresome story !
everything be so indefinite in this country .
but the point be that she have be live for several week in Moscow , where everybody know she and he , await the divorce , without go out anywhere or see any woman except Dolly , because , you understand , she do not want people to come and see she as a charity . even that fool Princess Barbara have leave she , consider it improper !
well , you see , any other woman in her position might fail to find resource in herself . but she ... you will see how she have arrange her life , how quiet and dignified she be ! ...
to the left , in the side street opposite the church ! ' shout Oblonsky , lean out of the carriage window .
' Faugh ! how hot ! ' he say , throw his already unfastened overcoat still wider open in spite of 12 degree of frost .
' but she have a child ; I suppose she be occupy with she ? ' say Levin ..
' I think you see in every woman only a female , une couveuse ! [ a broody hen . ] necessarily occupy with child if at all ! ' say Oblonsky .
' no ! I believe Anna be bring she up splendidly , but one do not hear about she .
her occupation be , firstly , write .
I can see you smile sarcastically , but you be wrong !
she be write a child 's book and do not speak of it to anyone , but she read it to I and I show the manuscript to Vorkuyev ... you know , the publisher ... he write himself , I think .
he be an expert , and say it be a remarkable work .
but you think she be a woman author ?
she be first of all a woman with a heart , you will see !
she now have a little english girl , and a whole family she be interested in . '
' why , be it a philanthropic undertaking ? '
' there you be ! at once look out for something bad !
it be not philanthropy , it be kind - heartedness .
they have – I mean , Vronsky have – an english trainer , a master in his own line , but a drunkard .
he take completely to drink , get delirium tremen , and have desert his family .
she see they , help they , and become interested in they , and now the whole family be on her hand – and she do not do it patronizingly , just with money , but she herself coach the boy in Russian for the High School , and she have take the girl into the house .
but you will see she . '
the carriage drive into the courtyard , and Oblonsky ring loudly at the front door , before which a sledge be stand .
without ask the porter who open the door whether Anna be in , Oblonsky enter the hall .
Levin follow , more and more in doubt as to whether he be act well or badly .
glance in the mirror , Levin see that he be red in the face , but he be sure he be not tipsy , and he follow Oblonsky up the carpet stair .
on the top landing a footman bow to Oblonsky as to some one he know well , and Oblonsky , ask who be with Anna Arkadyevna , receive the answer that it be Mr. Vorkuyev .
' where be they ? '
' in the study . '
pass through a small dining - room , panel in dark wood , Oblonsky and Levin enter the study across the soft carpet . it be light by a lamp with a large dark shade .
another reflector - lamp fix to the wall illuminate a large full - length portrait of a woman which attract Levin 's involuntary attention .
it be Anna 's portrait paint in Italy by Mikhaylov .
while Oblonsky pass behind a screen of trellis - work – and the man 's voice that have be speak become silent – Levin look at the portrait , which in the bright illumination seem to step out of its frame , and he could not tear himself away from it .
he forget where he be , and without listen to what be be say gaze fixedly at the wonderful portrait .
it be not a picture , but a living and charming woman with curly black hair , bare shoulder and arm , and a dreamy half - smile on lip cover with elegant down , look at he victoriously and tenderly with eye that trouble he .
the only thing that show she be not alive be that she be more beautiful than a live woman could be .
' I be so glad , ' he hear a voice say near by , evidently address he , the voice of the very woman whom he have admire in the portrait .
Anna have come out from behind the screen to meet he , and Levin see in the dim light of the study the woman of the portrait , in a dark dress of different shade of blue , not in the same attitude , not with the same expression , but on the same height of beauty as that on which the artist have catch she in the portrait .
in reality she be less brilliant , but there be something about her new and attractive which be not in the portrait .
she have RISEN to greet HIM , not conceal her pleasure at see he .
the tranquillity with which she extend to he her energetic little hand , introduce he to Vorkuyev and , indicate a pretty red - haired child who sit in the same room do needlework , speak of she as her ward , show the manner ( familiar and pleasant to Levin ) of a woman of good society , always self - possess and natural .
' I be very , very pleased , ' she repeat , and from her lip these simple word seem to Levin to possess a peculiar meaning . ' I have long know and like you , both for your friendship to Steve and for your wife 's sake ...
I only know she for a very short time , but she leave on I the impression of a lovely flower ... just a flower ! and she will soon be a mother ! '
she speak easily and without haste , occasionally turn her eye from Levin to her brother . Levin feel that the impression he be create be a good one and immediately become at ease and as natural and comfortable with she as if he have know she from childhood .
' we come into Alexis 's room to have a smoke , ' she say in reply to Oblonsky 's question whether he might smoke ; and glance at Levin , instead of ask he whether he smoke , she draw a tortoise - shell cigar - case near and take from it a straw cigarette .
' how be you to - day ? ' ask her brother .
' pretty well .
nerve as usual ! '
' be not it wonderfully good ? ' say Oblonsky , notice that Levin keep look at the portrait .
' I have never see a well portrait . '
' and it be a wonderful likeness , be not it ? ' ask Vorkuyev .
Levin glance from the portrait to the original .
a special brightness light up Anna 's face when she feel his eye on she .
Levin flush , and to hide his confusion be about to ask she if it be long since she have see Dolly , but at that instant Anna herself begin to speak .
' we be just talk with Ivan Petrovich [ Vorkuyev . ] about Vashchenko 's last picture .
have you see they ? '
' yes , I have , ' reply Levin .
' but excuse I , I interrupt you ? you be go to say ... '
Levin ask whether she have see Dolly lately .
' she be here yesterday . she be very angry with the High School because of Grisha .
the latin master , it seem , have be unjust to he . '
' yes , I have see the picture and do not like they very much , ' Levin say , return to the subject she have start .
Levin do not now speak at all in the matter - of - fact way in which he have talk that morning .
every word of his conversation with she assume a special importance .
it be pleasant to speak to she and yet more pleasant to listen to she ,
Anna not only talk naturally and cleverly , but cleverly and carelessly , not attribute any value to her own idea , but attribute great value to those of her interlocutor .
the conversation touch on the new direction take by art and the new illustration of the Bible by a french artist .
Vorkuyev accuse the artist of realism push to coarseness .
Levin say the French have carry conventionality in art far than anyone else , and therefore attribute special merit to a return to realism .
in the fact that they have leave off lie they perceive poetry .
never have any clever thought utter by Levin give he so much satisfaction as this .
Anna 's face brighten all over when she suddenly appreciate the remark .
she laugh .
' I be laugh as one laugh on see a very striking likeness !
what you have say quite characterize present - day french art , painting and even literature : Zola , Daudet .
but perhaps it be always like that – they form their conception from imaginary conventional figure , and when they have make every possible combination of these , they tire of the conventional figure and begin to devise more natural and correct one . '
' yes ; that be it exactly , ' say Vorkuyev .
' so you have be to the club ? ' she say , address her brother .
' what a woman ! ' think Levin , and , quite forget himself , he gaze fixedly at her beautiful mobile face , which have now suddenly quite change .
Levin do not hear what she be speak about while she lean toward her brother but be strike by the change in her expression .
after be so lovely in its tranquillity , her face suddenly express a strange curiosity , anger , and pride .
but this last only a moment .
she screw up her eye , as if she be remember something .
' however , that will not interest anyone , ' she say ; and turn to the little english girl , she add in English , ' please order tea in the drawing - room . '
the child rise and go out .
' well , have she pass her examination ? ' inquire Oblonsky .
' splendidly !
she be a very capable girl , and have a sweet nature . '
' you will finish by be fonder of she than of your own . '
' how like a man !
there be no more or less in love .
I love my child with one kind of love and she with another . '
' I be just say to Anna Arkadyevna , ' remark Vorkuyev , ' that if she be to devote to the general business of educate russian child a hundredth part of the energy she bestow on this english child she would be do a great and useful work . '
' yes , but , say what you like , I can not do it . Count Alexis urge I very much . '
as she speak the word ' Count Alexis ' she turn a timidly petition glance toward Levin and he involuntarily reply with a respectful and confirmatory glance . ' he urge I to take an interest in the village school .
I go several time .
they be very nice child , but I could not attach myself to the work .
you mention energy ...
energy be base on love ; and where be one to get the love ? one can not order it !
I 've become fond of this girl , you see , without know why . '
again she glance at Levin .
and her smile and glance tell he that she be speak for he alone , value his opinion and know in advance that they would understand one another .
' yes , I quite understand , ' Levin reply . ' it be impossible to put one 's heart into a school or an institution of that kind , and I think that be just why philanthropic establishment always give such poor result . '
after a pause she smile and say , ' yes , yes , I never could do it .
Je n'ai pas le coeur assez large [ my heart be not big enough ] to love a whole orphanage - full of unpleasant little girl . Cela ne m'a jamais reussi !
[ I never could succeed with that . ]
there be so many woman who have create for themselves a social position in that way .
and now especially , ' she go on with a sad , confide expression , as though address her brother but evidently speak to Levin , ' now when I so need some occupation , I can not do it ! ' and with a sudden frown ( Levin understand that she be frown at herself for having speak about herself ) she change the subject .
' how do you defend I ? '
' that varied with the attack .
however , will not you come and have some tea ? ' she rise and take up a book bind in morocco - leather .
' let I have it , Anna Arkadyevna , ' say Vorkuyev , point to the book . ' it be well worth it . '
' oh no , it be so unfinished ! '
' I have tell he about it , ' remark Oblonsky to his sister , indicate Levin .
' you should not have do so .
my writing be something like those little basket and carving make in prison , which Lisa Merkalova use to sell to I .
she use to preside over the prison department of a Society , ' she add , turn to Levin . ' and those unfortunate people achieve miracle of patience . '
and Levin perceive yet another feature in this woman whom he already like so much .
in addition to her intelligence , grace , and beauty , she also possess sincerity .
she do not wish to hide from he the hardship of her position .
when she have finish speak she sigh , and all at once her face assume a stern expression and become rigid .
with that expression her face seem even more beautiful than before ; but it be a novel look ; it be outside the circle of expression , radiate happiness and create happiness , which the artist have catch when paint her portrait .
Levin again look at the portrait and at her figure as , arm - in - arm with her brother , she pass through the lofty doorway , and he feel a tenderness and pity for she which surprise he .
she ask Levin and Vorkuyev to pass on into the drawing - room , and herself remain behind to speak to her brother . ' about the divorce ?
about Vronsky ? about what he be do at the club ?
about I ? ' Levin wonder ; and he be so excited about what she might be say to Oblonsky that he hardly listen to what Vorkuyev be tell he about the merit of Anna 's story for child .
over their tea they continue the same kind of pleasant and interesting talk .
there be not a single moment when it be necessary to seek for a subject of conversation ; on the contrary one feel that there be not time enough to say what one want to say , but willingly refrain in order to hear what she be say .
it seem to Levin that all that be say , not only by she , but also by Vorkuyev and Oblonsky , assume a special importance owe to her attention and remark .
while follow this interesting conversation Levin all the time continue to admire she : her beauty , her cleverness ; her good education , together with her simplicity and sincerity .
he listen and talk , and all the time thought of she , of her inner life , try to guess her feeling .
and he , who have formerly judge she so severely , now by some strange process of reasoning justify she and at the same time pity she and fear that Vronsky do not fully understand she .
toward eleven , when Oblonsky rise to leave ( Vorkuyev have already go ) , Levin feel as if he have only just arrive .
he get up regretfully .
' good - bye ! ' she say , retain his hand and gaze at he with a look that draw he to she . ' I be very pleased que la glace est rompue . ' [ that the ice be break . ]
she let go his hand and screw up her eye .
' tell your wife that I be just as fond of she as ever and that if she can not forgive I my situation , I wish she never to forgive I .
to forgive , she would have to live through what I have live through , and may God preserve she from that ! '
' certainly , yes , I will tell she ... ' say Levin , blushing .
' what a wonderful , SWEET , PATHETIC WOMAN ! ' he think as he and Oblonsky go out into the frosty air .
do not I tell you ? ' say Oblonsky , who see that Levin have be entirely vanquish .
' yes , ' respond Levin pensively , ' an extraordinary woman !
not on account of her intellect , but her wonderful sincerity ...
I be dreadfully sorry for she . '
' God willing , everything will now soon be settle !
well , another time , do not judge in advance , ' say Oblonsky , open the door of his carriage . ' good - bye !
without cease to think of Anna and of all the word – simple in the extreme – which they have interchange , recall every detail of the expression of her face , enter more and more into her situation and feel more and more sorry for she , Levin reach home .
at home he hear from Kuzma that Kitty be well and that her sister have not long be go , and he be give two letter .
these he read in the ante - room , so as not to let they divert his attention later on .
one be from his steward , Sokolov , who write that the wheat could not be sell , because only five - and - a - half rouble a chetvert be bid , and add that there be no other source from which to get money .
the other letter be from his sister , who reproach he for not having settle her business yet .
' well , we will sell it at five - and - a - half , if they will not give more . ' Levin promptly settle the first matter with great ease , though it have previously appear to he so difficult .
' it be surprising how all one 's time gets take up here , ' he think with reference to the second letter .
he feel himself to blame because he have not yet do what his sister ask of he .
' to - day again I do not go to the Court , but to - day I really have no time . '
and resolve that he would attend to it next day without fail , he go to his wife .
on his way he run over in his mind the whole of the past day .
all the event have consist of conversation : conversation to which he have listen or in which he have take part .
all these conversation be about matter he would never have occupy himself with have he be in the country , but here they be very interesting .
all of they have be good , and only two thing be not quite pleasant .
one be what he have say about the pike , and the other be that there be something not quite right about his tender pity for Anna .
Levin find his wife sad and depressed .
the three sister ' dinner - party would have go off very well , except that he do not come in as they expect and they all become dull . then the sister leave , and she remain alone .
' well , and what have you be do ? ' she ask , look he in the eye , which have a suspicious glitter in they .
but , not to hinder his relate everything , she mask her observation and listen with an appreciative smile while he tell she how he have spend the evening .
' I be very pleased to meet Vronsky .
I feel quite at ease and quite natural with he .
you see , I shall now try to avoid meet he again , but the constraint will no long exist ... ' say he , and remember that whilst ' try to avoid meet he again ' he have go straight to Anna 's , he blush . ' there now !
but Kitty be not interested in the question of how the people drink ; she have see his blush and want to know the reason .
' well , and where do you go then ? '
' Steve particularly beg I to call on Anna Arkadyevna . '
on say this Levin blush still more , and his doubt as to whether he have do right or wrong in go to see Anna be finally solve .
he now know that he should not have go there .
Kitty 's eye open in a peculiar manner and flash at the mention of Anna 's name , but make an effort she hide her agitation and so deceive he .
' ah ! ' be all she say ..
' I be sure you will not be angry with I for go .
Steve ask I to , and Dolly wish it , ' continue Levin .
' oh no ! ' she say , but he see by her eye the effort she make to control herself , and it bode he no good .
' she be very charming , very , very much to be pity , and a good woman , ' he say , tell she about Anna and her occupation and the message she have send .
' yes , of course she be much to be pity , ' say Kitty when he have finish . ' from whom be your letter ? '
he tell she , and mislead by her quiet manner go to undress .
when he return he find Kitty still sit in the chair where he have leave she .
when he draw near she look at he and burst into sob .
' what be it ? what be it ? ' he ask , well aware what it be .
' you have fall in love with that horrid woman ! she have bewitch you !
I see it in your eye .
yes , yes !
what can come of it ?
you be at the club drinking and drinking , and gambling , and then you go ... to whom ?
no , let us go away ! ...
I will leave to - morrow ! '
it be long before Levin could pacify his wife .
at last he manage it , but only by acknowledge that a sense of pity , after the wine he have drink , have mislead he , that he have yield to Anna 's artful influence , and that he would avoid she in future .
one thing that he sincerely confess be that , live so long in Moscow with nothing but talk and food and drink , he be go silly .
they talk till three in the morning , and only then be they sufficiently reconcile to fall asleep .
when she visitor had taken their LEAVE Anna do not sit down , but begin pace up and down the room .
though she have involuntarily do all in her power to awaken love in Levin ( as at that time she always do to all the young man she meet ) , and though she know she have succeed in as far as be possible with an honourable married man in one evening , and though she have like he very much ( despite the marked difference between Vronsky and Levin from a man 's point of view , she , as a woman , see in they that common trait which have cause Kitty to fall in love with they both ) , yet as soon as he have leave the room she cease to think about he .
one think , and one only , pursue she remorselessly in different form .
' if I produce such an effect on other , on this married man who love his wife , why be he so cold toward I ... and it be not coldness , for I know he love I , but something fresh now divide we .
why have he be away all the evening ?
he send word by Steve that he could not leave Yashvin , but must keep an eye on his play .
be Yashvin such a child ?
but admit that it be true – he never tell lie – then behind that truth there be something else .
he be glad of a chance to show I that he have other obligation .
I know he have , I agree to that .
but why prove it to I ?
he wish to give I proof that his love of I must not interfere with his freedom .
but I do not need proof ; I need love !
he ought to understand the hardship of my life here in Moscow .
be it life ?
I do not live , but only wait for a solution which be defer and still defer .
again no answer !
and Steve say he can not go to see Alexis Alexandrovich ; and I can not write again .
I can not do anything , begin anything , change anything !
I restrain myself , wait , invent occupation for myself , – the english family , writing , reading , but all that be only deception , it be all a kind of morphia .
he ought to pity I , ' say she , feel tear of self - compassion rise to her eye .
she hear Vronsky 's vehement ring at the front door and quickly dry her eye . she even sit down near the lamp and open a book , pretend to be tranquil .
she must let he see that she be displeased that he have not return when he have promise – displease , that should be all ; she would on no account show he her grief , and still less her self - compassion .
she might pity herself , but he must not pity she .
she do not want strife and blame he for want to fight , but yet she involuntarily take up a fighting attitude .
' well , you 've not be dull ? ' he ask cheerfully and with animation , come up to she . ' what a terrible passion gambling be ! '
' no , I have not be dull , I have long ago learn not to feel dull .
Steve and Levin be here . '
' yes , I know they be come to see you .
and how do you like Levin ? ' he ask , take a seat beside she .
' very much .
they only leave a short while ago .
what do Yashvin do ? '
' he be lucky and win seventeen thousand .
I call he away and very nearly get he to come .
but he go back and now have lose more than he have win . '
' then what be the good of your stay with he ? ' she say , suddenly raise her eye to his face .
her look be cold and hostile . ' you tell Steve you be stay to bring Yashvin away , but you have leave he . '
a similar cold expression of readiness for strife appear on his face .
' for one thing , I do not give he any message for you ; and for another I never say what be not true . but chiefly , I want to stay , so I stay , ' he reply with a frown . ' Anna ! why ? why ? ... ' he ask after a short pause , bend toward she and open his hand , hope that she would place hers in it .
she be pleased by this appeal to tenderness .
but some strange evil power prevent she from yield to her impulse , as if the condition of the struggle do not allow she to submit .
' of course you wish to stay , and stay .
you always do what you wish .
but why tell I ?
why ? ' she say , become more and more agitated . ' do anyone dispute your right ?
but you want to be in the right , so in the right you must be ! '
his hand close , he lean back , and his face assume a still more stubborn look .
' for you it be a matter of obstinacy , ' she say , after gaze intently at he and suddenly find a name for that look that irritate she so . ' just obstinacy ! for you it be a question whether you will conquer I , and for I ... ' again she feel sorry for herself and nearly burst into tear . ' if you only know what it mean to I ! when I feel as I do now , that you be hostile toward I – hostile be the right word – if you only know what that mean to I ! if you know how near I be to a catastrophe at such moment ... how afraid I be ! afraid of myself ! ' and she turn away to hide her sob .
' but what be it all about ? ' he say , horrify at her expression of despair , and again lean toward she he take her hand and kiss it . ' what have I do ?
do I seek amusement outside our home ?
do I not avoid the society of woman ? '
' I should hope so ! ' she say .
' well then , tell I what I should do to make you easy ?
I be ready to do anything to make you happy , ' he go on , touch by her despair . ' what would I not do to spare you such grief as this , about I know not what !
' nothing , nothing ! ' she reply . ' I do not know myself whether it be this lonely life , or nerve ...
but do not let us talk about it !
what about the race ? you have not tell I about they , ' and she try to hide her triumph at her victory , for the victory be hers after all .
he ask for supper , and begin tell she about the race ; but by his tone and by his look , which grow cold and cold , she see that he have not forgive she her victory , and that the obstinacy , against which she have fight , have again take possession of he .
he be cold to she than before , as if he repent of having submit ; and remember the word which have give she the victory – ' I be near a catastrophe and afraid of myself ' – she realize that they be a dangerous weapon and must not be use a second time .
she feel that side by side with the love that unite they there have grow up some evil spirit of strife , which she could not cast out of his heart and still less out of her own .
there be no condition of LIFE to which a man can not accustom himself , especially if he see that every one around he live in the same way .
three month previously Levin would not have believe that he could quietly fall asleep under the circumstance in which he now find himself : that while lead an aimless , senseless life , one moreover that be above his mean , after tippling ( he could call what have happen in the club by no other name ) , after show unsuitable friendship to the man with whom his wife have once be in love , and after a still more unsuitable visit to a woman who could only be call a fall woman , and after be allure by she and having grieve his wife – that in such circumstance he could quietly fall asleep .
but under the influence of weariness , a sleepless night , and the wine he have drink , he sleep soundly and peacefully .
at five in the morning the creak of an open door awake he .
he jump up and look round .
Kitty be not in the bed beside he .
but on the other side of the partition a light be move , and he hear her step .
' what be it ? what be it ? ... ' he mutter , not yet quite awake . ' Kitty , what be it ? '
' nothing , ' say she , come candle in hand from beyond the partition . ' I only feel a little unwell , ' she add with a peculiarly sweet and significant smile .
' what ? have it begin ? have it ? ' he ask in a frightened voice . ' we must send ... ' and he begin to dress hurriedly .
' no , no , ' she say smile , hold he back with her hand .
' I be sure it be nothing .
I only feel slightly unwell ; but it be over now . '
she come back to her bed , put out the candle , lie down , and remain quiet .
though that quietness , as if she be hold her breath , and especially the peculiar tenderness and animation with which , return from the other side of the partition , she have say : ' it be nothing ! ' seem to he suspicious , yet he be so sleepy that he fall asleep at once .
only afterwards he remember that bate breath , and realize all that have pass in her dear sweet soul while she lie motionless by his side , await the great event of a woman 's life .
at seven o'clock he be awaken by her touch on his shoulder and a soft whisper .
she seem to hesitate between regret at wake he and a desire to speak to he .
' Kostya , do not be frightened .
it be nothing , but I think ...
we must send for Mary Vlasevna . '
the candle be burn again .
she be sit on the bed hold in her hand some knitting she have lately be do .
' please do not be frightened ! it be nothing .
I be not a bit afraid , ' she say on see his alarmed face , and she press his hand to her breast and then to her lip .
he jump up hastily , hardly aware of himself and without take his eye off she , put on his dressing - gown and stand still , gaze at she .
it be necessary for he to go , but he could not tear himself away from the sight of she : he have love that face and know all its expression and look , but he have never see she as she be now .
how vile and despicable he appear to himself before she as she now be , when he recollect the grief he have cause she yesterday !
her flushed face surround with soft hair that have escape from beneath her night - cap shine with joy and resolution .
little as there be of affectation and conventionality in Kitty 's general character , yet Levin be astonish at what be reveal to he now that every veil have fall and the very kernel of her soul shine through her eye .
and in this simplicity , this nakedness of soul , she whom he love be more apparent than ever .
she look at he smilingly , but suddenly her eyebrow twitch , she raise her head , and come quickly to he she take hold of his hand and cling close she envelop he in her hot breath .
she be suffer and seem to be complain to he of her pain .
and for a moment from force of habit he feel as if he be in fault .
but her look express a tenderness which tell he that she not only do not blame he , but love he because of those suffering .
' if I be not to blame for it , who be ? ' he think , involuntarily seek a culprit to punish for these suffering ; but there be no culprit .
she suffer , complain , triumph in her suffering , rejoice in they and love they .
he see that something beautiful be take place in her soul but what it be he could not understand .
it be above his comprehension .
' I have send for Mama .
and you , go quickly and fetch Mary Vlasevna ...
Kostya ! ...
no , it be nothing . it be past . '
she move away from he and ring .
' well , go now . Pasha be come .
I be all right . '
and Levin see with amazement that she again take up the knitting which she have fetch in the night , and recommence work .
as Levin go out at one door he hear the maid enter at the other .
he stop at the door and hear Kitty give detailed instruction to the maid , and with she help herself move the bed .
he dress , and while the horse be be harness – for it be early , and no izvoshchiks be about yet – he run back to the bedroom not on tiptoe but , as it seem to he , on wing .
two maid be busy move something in the bedroom .
Kitty be walk up and down and knit , rapidly throw the thread over the needle and give order .
' I be go straight to the doctor 's .
they have already go for Mary Vlasevna , but I will call there too .
be anything else want ?
oh yes , to Dolly ! '
she look at he , evidently not listen to what he be say .
' yes , yes ! go , ' she say rapidly , frown and motion he away with her hand .
he be already on his way through the drawing - room when suddenly a piteous moan , that last only a moment , reach he from the bedroom .
he stop and for a moment could not understand it .
' yes , it be she , ' he say and , clasp his head with his hand , he run downstairs .
' Lord have mercy ! pardon and help we ! ' he repeat the word . that suddenly and unexpectedly spring to his lip .
and he , an unbeliever , repeat those word not with his lip only .
at that instant he know that neither his doubt nor the impossibility of believe with his reason – of which he be conscious – all prevent his appealing to God .
it all fly off like dust .
to whom should he appeal , if not to he in whose hand he feel himself , his soul , and his love , to be ?
the horse be not yet ready , but feel particularly energetic , physically strong and alert to meet what lay before he , so as not to lose a moment he do not wait for it but start off on foot , tell Kuzma to catch he up .
at the corner he encounter a night izvoshchik hurry along .
in the little sledge sit Mary Vlasevna in a velvet cloak with a shawl over her head .
' thank God ! ' he mutter , recognize with delight her little blonde face , which now wear a particularly serious and even severe expression .
without stop the izvoshchik he run back beside she .
' so it begin about two hour ago , not more ? ' she ask . ' you will find the doctor , but do not hurry he .
and get some opium at the chemist 's . '
' so you think it may go all right ?
God have mercy and help we ! ' say Levin as he see his horse come out of the gateway .
jump into the sledge beside Kuzma , he order he to drive to the doctor 's .
the doctor be not yet up , and his footman say he have go to bed late and give order that he be not to be call , but the footman add that he would be up soon .
the man be clean lamp - glass and seem quite absorb in his task .
this attention to his glass and indifference to what be take place at the Levins ' astonish Levin at first , but he immediately recollect himself and realize that no one know or be bind to know his feeling , and that it be therefore all the more necessary to act calmly , deliberately , and firmly in order to break through this wall of indifference and to attain his aim .
' do not hurry and do not omit anything , ' he say to himself , conscious of an increase uplift of his physical power and of his attention to all that lay before he .
having learn that the doctor be not up yet , Levin , out of the many plan that occur to he , decide on the follow : Kuzma should go with a note to another doctor , while he himself would go to the chemist for the opium ; and if the doctor be not up when he return he would bribe the footman – or if that be impossible , he would enter by force and wake the doctor at all cost .
at the chemist 's a skinny dispenser , with the same indifference with which the footman have clean his lamp - glass , close with a wafer a packet of powder for which a coachman be wait , and refuse to let Levin have any opium .
try not to hurry and not to get excited , Levin give the name of the doctor and of the midwife , explain why the opium be want and try to persuade the dispenser to let he have it .
the dispenser ask in German whether he might sell it and receive permission from some one behind a screen take out a bottle and a funnel , slowly pour it from a large bottle into a small one , stick on a label , and in spite of Levin 's request that he should not do so seal up the bottle , and be about to wrap it up .
this be more than Levin could stand ; he resolutely snatch the bottle out of the man 's hand and rush out at the big glass door .
the doctor be not up yet , and the footman , now busy put down a carpet , refuse to wake he .
Levin deliberately take out a ten - rouble note , and speak slowly but without lose time , hand he the note and explain that Dr Peter Dmitrich ( how great and important this Peter Dmitrich , formerly so insignificant , now appear to Levin ! ) have promise to come at any time , and that he would certainly not be angry and must therefore be call at once .
the footman consent and go upstairs , ask Levin to step into the waiting - room .
Levin could hear the doctor at the other side of the door cough , walk about , washing , and speak .
some three minute elapse ; to Levin they seem more than an hour .
he could not wait any long .
' Peter Dmitrich ! Peter Dmitrich ! ' he call out in a tone of entreaty through the open door .
' for heaven 's sake forgive I ! ...
receive I as you be ! it be over two hour ... '
' immediately ! immediately ! ' answer a voice , and Levin be astounded to detect that the doctor be smile as he say it .
' just for one moment ! '
' immediately ! '
two minute more pass while the doctor put on his boot and two more while he put on his clothe and brush his hair .
' Peter Dmitrich ! ' Levin again begin in a piteous voice , but at that instant the doctor come out , dress and with his hair brush .
' these people have no conscience , ' think Levin . ' brush their hair while we be perish . '
' good morning ! ' say the doctor , hold out his hand and , as it seem to Levin , tease he by his calm manner . ' do not hurry !
well ? '
try to be as exact as possible , Levin begin recount every unnecessary detail of his wife 's position , continually interrupt himself to beg the doctor to accompany he at once .
' do not be in such a hurry .
you see you be inexperienced , I be sure I shall not be need , but I promise , and if you like I will come .
but there be no hurry .
please sit down . will not you have a cup of coffee ? '
Levin give the doctor a look which ask whether he be not laugh at he .
but the doctor have no idea of laugh .
' I know , I know , ' he say with a smile . ' I be a family man myself .
we husband be the most miserable of creature at those time . I have a patient whose husband always run away into the stable on such occasion ! '
' but what be your opinion , Peter Dmitrich ?
do you think it may go all right ? '
' all the symptom be favourable . '
' then you will come at once ? ' say Levin , look angrily at the servant who bring in the coffee .
' in an hour 's time . '
' no , for heaven 's sake ... ! '
' well , only let I finish my coffee . '
the doctor begin on his coffee .
both keep silence .
' well , the Turks be be seriously beat !
do you read yesterday 's telegram ? ' ask the doctor , chew a piece of roll .
' no , I can not stand it ! ' say Levin , jump up . ' so you will come in a quarter of an hour ? '
' in half an hour . '
' on your honour ? '
Levin get home just as the Princess arrive , and they meet at the bedroom door .
there be tear in the Princess 's eye and her hand shake .
when she see Levin she embrace he and begin to cry .
' well , Mary Vlasevna , darling ? ' she ask , seize the hand of the midwife who come toward they with a beaming but preoccupied expression .
' it be go all right , ' she say . ' persuade she to lie down ; it will be easy for she . '
from the moment when he wake up and understand what be the matter Levin have brace himself to endure what might await he , without reasoning and without anticipate anything – firmly suppress all his thought and feeling , determine not to upset his wife but on the contrary to calm and support she .
not allow himself even to think of what be about to happen and how it would end , judge by inquiry he have make as to the time such affair usually last , Levin mentally prepare himself to endure and to keep his heart under restraint for something like five hour , which seem to he within his power .
but when he return from the doctor 's and again see her suffering , he begin repeat more and more often : ' God , pardon and help we ! ' sigh and lift his head , afraid lest he should not be able to bear the strain and should either burst into tear or run away , so torment be it for he .
and only one hour have pass !
but after that hour another pass , a second , a third , and all the five hour that he have set himself as the long term of possible endurance , and still the situation be unchanged ; and he go on enduring , for there be nothing else to do but to endure – think every moment that he have reach the utmost limit of endurance and that in a moment his heart would burst with pity .
but the minute go by , and the hour , and other hour , and his suffering and terror and strain grow tenser .
the ordinary condition of life , without which nothing can be imagine , no long exist for Levin .
he lose the sense of time .
sometimes minute – those minute when she call he to she and he hold her moist hand , now press his with extraordinary strength and now push he away – seem to he like hour ; and then again hour seem but minute .
he be surprised when Mary Vlasevna ask he to light a candle behind the partition , and he learn that it be already five o'clock in the evening .
have he be tell it be ten in the morning he would not have be more astonished .
he have just as little idea of where he be at that time as he have of when it all take place .
he see her burning face , now bewildered and full of suffering , and now smile and soothe he .
he see the Princess red , overwrought , her grey hair out of curl , and with tear which she energetically swallow , bite her lip . he see Dolly , he see the doctor smoke thick cigarette , and Mary Vlasevna with a firm , resolute , and tranquillizing look on her face , and the old Prince pace up and down the ballroom and frowning .
but he do not know how they come and go , nor where they be .
the Princess be one moment in the bedroom with the doctor , and the next in the study , where a table lay for a meal have make its appearance ; and next it be not the Princess , but dolly .
afterwards Levin remember be send somewhere .
once he be tell to fetch a table and a sofa .
he do it with zeal , believe that it be necessary for her sake , and only later discover that he have be prepare a sleeping - place for himself .
then he be send to the study to ask the doctor about something .
the doctor answer he , and then begin talk about the scene in the city Duma .
then he be send to fetch an icon with silver - gilt mount from the Princess 's bedroom , and he and the Princess 's old lady 's maid climb on a cupboard to get down the icon , and he break the little lamp that burn before it , and the old servant try to comfort he about his wife and about the lamp . he bring the icon back with he , and put it at the head of Kitty 's bed , carefully push it in behind the pillow .
but where , when , and why all this be do he do not know .
nor do he understand why the Princess take his hand , and look pitifully at he , entreat he to be calm ; nor why Dolly try to persuade he to eat something and lead he out of the room ; nor why even the doctor look seriously and sympathizingly at he , offer he some drop .
he only know and feel that what be happen be similar to what have happen the year before in the hotel of the provincial town on the deathbed of his brother Nicholas .
only that be sorrow and this be joy .
but that sorrow and this joy be equally beyond the usual condition of life : they be like opening in that usual life through which something high become visible .
and , as in that case , what be now be accomplish come harshly , painfully , incomprehensibly ; and while watch it , the soul soar , as then , to height it have never know before , at which reason could not keep up with it .
' Lord , pardon and help we ! ' he keep repeat incessantly to himself , appeal to God , in spite of a long period of apparently complete estrangement , just as trustingly and simply as in the day of childhood and early youth .
during the whole of that time he be alternately in two different mood .
one mood when not in her presence : when with the doctor , who smoke one thick cigarette after another and extinguish they against the rim of the overflowing ashpan ; when with Dolly and the Prince , where they talk about dinner , politic , or Mary Petrovna 's illness , and when Levin suddenly quite forgot for an instant what be happen and feel just as if he be wake up ; and the other be in her presence , by her pillow , where his heart be ready to burst with pity and yet do not burst , and there he pray unceasingly to God .
and every time when the scream that come from the bedroom rouse he from momentary forgetfulness he succumb to the same strange error that have possess he in the first moment : every time , on hear the scream , he jump up and run to justify himself , but recollect on the way that he be not to blame and that he long to protect and help she .
but when , look at she , he again see that to help be impossible ; he be seize with horror and say , ' Lord , pardon and help we ! '
and the long it last the strong grow both his mood : out of her presence he become calm , quite forget she , and at the same time both her suffering and his feeling of the impossibility of help she become more and more poignant .
he would jump up , wish to run away somewhere , but run to she instead .
sometimes when she have call he again and again , he be half - inclined to blame she .
but see her meek smile face and hear she say , ' I have wear you out , ' he blame God ; but the thought of God make he at once pray for forgiveness and mercy .
he do not know whether it be late or early .
the candle be all burn low .
Dolly have just enter the study and suggest that the doctor should lie down .
Levin sit listen to the doctor 's story of a quack magnetizer and stare at the ash of the doctor 's cigarette .
it be an interval of rest and oblivion .
he have quite forget what be go on .
he listen to the doctor 's tale and understand it .
suddenly there be a scream unlike anything he have ever hear .
the scream be so terrible that Levin do not even jump up , but look breathlessly with a frightened and inquire glance at the doctor , who bend his head on one side to listen and smile approvingly .
everything be so out of the ordinary that nothing any long surprise Levin .
' probably it have to be so , ' think he and remain sit still .
' but who be it scream ? '
he jump up and rush into the bedroom on tiptoe , past Mary Vlasevna and the Princess , and stop at his place at the head of the bed .
the screaming have cease , but there be a change ; what it be he could not make out or understand , nor do he want to understand it but he read it in Mary Vlasevna 's face . she look pale and stern , and as resolute as before though her jaw tremble a little and her eye be fix intently on Kitty .
Kitty 's burn face , wear with suffering , with a lock of hair cling to her clammy forehead , be turn toward he try to catch his eye .
her raise hand ask for his .
seize his cold hand in her perspiring one she press they to her face .
' do not go ! do not go !
I be not afraid , I be not afraid ! ' she say rapidly . ' Mama !
' take off my earring , they be in the way !
you be not afraid ?
soon , Mary Vlasevna , soon ... ! '
she speak very rapidly and try to smile , but all at once her face become distorted and she push he away .
' no , this be awful !
I shall die ... die ! ...
go ! go ! ' she cry , and again he hear that scream unlike any other cry .
Levin clasp his head in his hand and run out of the room .
' it be all right , it be all right ! all go well ! ' dolly call after he .
but say what they might , he know that now all be lose .
lean his head against the door - post he stand in the next room , and hear some one shriek and moan in a way he have never hear till then , and he know that these sound be produce by what once be Kitty .
he have long cease wish for a child , and now he hate that child .
he do not now even wish she to live , but only long that these terrible suffering should end .
' doctor , what be it ?
what be it ?
oh , my God ! ' he cry , grasp the hand of the doctor who have just enter .
' it be come to an end , ' say the doctor , with a face so serious that Levin think that end mean death .
quite beside himself , he rush into her room .
the first thing he see be Mary Vlasevna 's face .
it be still more frowning and stern .
Kitty 's face do not exist .
in its place be something terrible , both because of its strained expression and because of the sound which proceed from it .
he let his head drop upon the wood of the bedstead , feel that his heart be break .
the terrible screaming do not cease , but grow yet more awful until , as if it have reach the utmost limit of horror , it suddenly cease .
Levin could scarcely believe his ear , but there be no room for doubt . the screaming have cease , and he hear a sound of movement , of rustle , of accelerated breathing , and her voice , falter , living , tender , and happy , as it say , ' it be over . '
he raise his head .
with her arm helplessly outstretche upon the quilt , unusually beautiful and calm she lay , gaze silently at he , try unsuccessfully to smile .
and suddenly , out of the mysterious , terrible , and unearthly world in which he have be live for the last twenty - two hour , Levin feel himself instantaneously transport back to the old everyday world , but now radiant with the light of such new joy that it be insupportable .
the taut string snap , and sobs and tear of joy that he have not in the least anticipate arise within he , with such force that they shake his whole body and long prevent his speaking .
fall on his knee by her bedside he hold his wife 's hand to his lip , kiss it , and that hand , by a feeble movement of the finger , reply to the kiss .
and meanwhile at the foot of the bed , like a flame above a lamp , flicker in Mary Vlasevna 's skilful hand the life of a human being who have never before exist : a human being who , with the same right and the same importance to himself , would live and would procreate other like himself .
' alive !
alive !
and a boy !
do not be anxious , ' Levin hear Mary Vlasevna say , as she slap the baby 's back with a shake hand .
' Mama , be it true ? ' ask Kitty .
the Princess could only sob in reply .
and amid the silence , as a positive answer to the mother 's question , a voice quite unlike all the restrained voice that have be speak in the room make itself hear .
it be a bold , insolent voice that have no consideration for anything , it be the cry of the new human being who have so incomprehensibly appear from some unknown realm .
before that , if Levin have be tell that Kitty be dead , and that he have die with she , that they have angel child , and that God be there present with they – he would not have be astonish . but now , having return to the world of actuality , he have to make great effort to understand that she be alive and well , and that the creature that be yell so desperately be his son .
Kitty be alive , her suffering be over ; and he be full of unspeakable bliss .
this he comprehend , and it render he entirely happy .
but the child ?
whence and why have he come ?
who be he ? ... he could not at all accustom himself to the idea .
it seem something superfluous , something overflowing , and for a long time he be unable to get use to it .
TOWARD TEN o'clock the old Prince , Koznyshev , and Oblonsky be with Levin , and having talk about the young mother they have begin discuss other matter .
Levin listen to they and at the same time involuntarily think of the past and of what have be go on before that morning , remember himself as he have be yesterday before this event .
a hundred year seem to have elapse since then .
he feel as if he be on some unattainable height , from which he painstakingly descend in order not to hurt the feeling of those with whom he be converse .
he talk but never cease think of his wife , of the detail of her present condition , and of his son – to the idea of whose existence he painstakingly try to accustom himself .
that feminine world which since his marriage have receive a new and unsuspected significance for he now rise so high in his estimation that his imagination could not grasp it .
he hear a conversation about yesterday 's dinner at the club and think , ' what be happen to she now ? be she asleep ?
how be she ?
what be she think about ?
be our son , Dmitry , cry ? '
and in the middle of the conversation , in the middle of a phrase , he suddenly jump up and leave the room .
' send and let I know whether I may see she , ' say the old Prince .
' all right , directly ! ' answer Levin , and , without pause , go to her room .
she be not asleep , but be talk quietly with her mother , make plan for the christening .
make neat , her hair brush , a smart cap trim with something blue on her head , she lie on her back with her arm outside the quilt , and meet his look with a look which draw he toward she .
that look , already bright , grow still bright as he approach .
on her face be the same change from the earthly to that which be beyond earth , as be see on the face of the dead ; but in their case it be a farewell , in hers it be a welcome .
again an agitation , similar to that which he have feel at the moment of the birth , grip his heart .
she take his hand and ask whether he have sleep .
he could not answer and , conscious of his weakness , turn away .
' and I have be doze , Kostya ! ' she say . ' and now I feel so comfortable . '
she be gaze at he , but suddenly her face change .
' let I have he , ' say she , hear the baby 's cry . ' let I have he , Mary Vlasevna , and he will see he too ! '
' well then , we will let Papa have a look , ' say Mary Vlasevna , lift something red , strange , and quiver and bring it near . ' but wait a bit , let us first get dress , ' and Mary Vlasevna put the quiver red object on the bed , and begin unwrap it and then swaddle it again , raise and turn it with one finger , and powder it with something .
Levin , gaze at this tiny piteous being , vainly search his soul for some indication of paternal feeling .
he feel nothing for it but repulsion .
but when it be strip and he catch a glimpse of thin , thin little arm and leg saffron - colour , but with finger and toe , and even with thumb distinguishable from the rest ; and when he see how , as though they be soft spring , Mary Vlasevna bend those little arm which stick up , and encase they in linen garment , he be so fill with pity for that being , and so alarmed lest she should hurt it , that he try to restrain her hand .
Mary Vlasevna laugh .
' do not be afraid , do not be afraid ! '
when the baby have be swaddle and make into a firm doll , Mary Vlasevna turn it over as if proud of her work , and step aside that Levin might see his son in all his beauty .
Kitty turn her eye and gaze fixedly in the same direction . ' let I have he , let I have he ! ' she say , and be even go to raise herself .
' what be you do , Catherine Alexandrovna ? you must not move like that !
wait a moment , I will give he to you .
let us show Papa what a fine fellow we be ! '
and Mary Vlasevna hold out to Levin on one hand ( the other merely support the nape of the shaky head ) this strange , limp , red creature , that hide its head in its swaddle clothe .
but there be also a nose , blink eye , and smack lip .
' a beautiful baby ! ' say Mary Vlasevna .
Levin sigh bitterly .
this beautiful baby only inspire he with a sense of repulsion and pity .
these be not at all the feeling he have expect .
he turn away while Mary Vlasevna lay the child to the unaccustomed breast .
suddenly a laugh make he lift his head .
it be Kitty laugh .
the baby have take the breast .
' well , that be enough ! that be enough ! ' say Mary Vlasevna ; but Kitty would not part with the baby .
he fall asleep in her arm .
' now look at he , ' say Kitty , turn he so that Levin could see he .
the old - looking little face wrinkle up still more and the baby sneeze .
smile , and hardly able to keep back tear of tenderness , Levin kiss his wife and quit the darken room .
what he feel toward this little creature be not at all what he have anticipate .
there be nothing merry or joyful in it ; on the contrary , there be a new and distressing sense of fear .
it be the consciousness of another vulnerable region .
and this consciousness be at first so painful , the fear lest that helpless be should suffer be so strong , that it quite hide the strange feeling of unreasoning joy and even pride which he experience when the baby sneeze .
OBLONSKY 's affair be in a BAD state .
two - third of the money for the forest have already be spend , and by allow a discount of ten per cent he have obtain from the merchant almost the whole of the last third .
but the latter would not advance any more of the money , especially as Dolly , who have that winter for the first time plainly claim a right to her own property , have refuse to endorse the contract with a receipt for the last third of the payment . Oblonsky 's whole salary go for household expense and the liquidation of small press bill .
he have no money at all . this be unpleasant , inconvenient , and , in Oblonsky 's opinion , ought not to continue .
the cause , as he understand it , be that he receive too small a salary .
the position have certainly be a very good one a few year ago , but it be so no long .
Petrov , the Bank director , get Rs.12,ooo .
Sventitsky , Director of a company , get Rs.17,ooo ; and Mitin , having found a bank , get Rs.5o , ooo .
' evidently I have be asleep and have be forget ! ' think Oblonsky .
and he begin prick up his ear and look around , and by the end of the winter he have discover a very good post and begin an attack on it , first from Moscow through aunt , uncle , and friend ; and then in spring , when the matter have ripen , he himself go to Petersburg .
this post be one of those , now far more numerous than formerly , carry salary from one thousand to fifty thousand rouble a year : soft profitable job . it be a membership of the Committee of the Joint Agency of the Mutual Credit Balance of Southern Railways and Banking Houses .
like all such post it require such immense knowledge and activity as could hardly be unite in one man .
and as there be no one find who unite those quality , it be at any rate well for the post to be fill by an honest rather than a dishonest man .
Oblonsky be not only an honest man – place no special emphasis on the word – but he be an honest man with an emphasis , in the special sense attach to the word in Moscow , where they say : ' an honest worker , an honest writer , an honest journalist , an honest institution , an honest tendency , ' mean not only that the man or the institution be not dishonest , but also that they be capable , on occasion , of be objectionable to the government .
Oblonsky move in those Moscow circle where that word be use , and be there consider an honest man , so that he have a well claim to the post than other people .
the post carry a salary of from seven to ten thousand rouble a year , and Oblonsky could hold it without resign his official position .
it depend on two minister , one lady , and two Jews ; and though they have already be prepare it be necessary for Oblonsky to see all these people in Petersburg .
moreover , he have promise his sister Anna to obtain a decisive answer about the divorce from Karenin .
so , having get fifty rouble from Dolly , he go to Petersburg .
sit in Karenin 's study and listen to his article on ' the Causes of the Bad State of Russian Finance , ' Oblonsky only wait for he to conclude to speak about his own affair and about Anna .
' yes , it be very true , ' Oblonsky agree when Karenin , take off the pince - nez without which he could no long read , look up inquiringly at his former brother - in - law . ' it be very true in detail , but all the same the principle of to - day be Freedom . '
' yes , but I bring forward another principle which embrace the principle of freedom , ' say Karenin , accentuate the word ' embrace , ' and put his pince - nez on again to re - read the part where this be say .
turn over the beautifully write , very broad - margine manuscript , Karenin re - read the convincing passage :
' I do not want protection for the benefit of private individual , but for the common good – for the low and for the high class equally , ' he say , look at Oblonsky over his pince - nez . ' but they can not understand this , they be concern only with their private interest and be carry away by phrase . '
Oblonsky know that when Karenin begin talk about what they do and think – they be those who do not wish to accept his project , and be the cause of all the evil in Russia – the end of the subject be near at hand , and he therefore willingly abandon the principle of Freedom and agree entirely .
Karenin be silent , thoughtfully turn over the leave of his manuscript .
' oh , by the way ! ' say Oblonsky , ' I want to ask you to take an opportunity , when you see Pomorsky , to put in a word for I , and to tell he that I should very much like to get the vacant post of Member of the Committee of the Joint Agency of the Mutual Credit Balance of Southern Railways . '
the name of the post that be so near his heart be already familiar to Oblonsky and he pronounce it rapidly without any blunder .
Karenin inquire what be the work of this new Committee , and ponder .
he be consider whether in the activity of this Committee there be not something at variance with his own project .
but as the work of the new institution be very complicated and his project cover a very extensive domain , he could not decide this immediately , and take off his pince - nez say :
' certainly I could speak to he ; but , really , why do you want the post ? '
' the salary be good , up to nine thousand , and my mean ... ' ' nine thousand , ' repeat Karenin , and frown .
the large figure of the salary remind he that , in that respect , the post Oblonsky be aspire to be oppose to the main idea of his project , which always tend toward economy .
' I consider , and I have write an article on the point , that the enormous salary pay nowadays be a symptom of the false economic position of our administration . '
' yes , but what would you have ? ' say Oblonsky . ' let us say a bank director get ten thousand , – he be worth it , you know !
or an engineer get twenty thousand .
it be a live business , anyway . '
' I consider that a salary be payment for value receive and should be subject to the law of supply and demand .
if that law be ignore when fix a salary , as for instance when I see that , of two engineer who have pass through the same Institute and be equally well instruct and capable , one receive forty thousand and the other be satisfied with two thousand ; or when lawyer or hussar who have no special knowledge be appoint director of bank or company and receive gigantic salary , I conclude that these salary be not fix by the law of supply and demand but by personal influence .
this be an abuse important in itself , which have a bad effect on the State service .
I consider ... '
Oblonsky hasten to interrupt his brother - in - law .
' yes , ' say he , ' but you will agree that a new and unquestionably useful institution be be start .
anyway , it be a live business !
it be particularly desire that the work should be manage honestly , ' conclude Oblonsky , with an emphasis on the word .
but the Moscow meaning of ' honest ' be unintelligible to Karenin .
' honesty be only a negative quality , ' say he .
' but you would greatly oblige I , all the same , if you would put in a word – when you happen to see Pomorsky , ' say Oblonsky
' but it depend chiefly on Bolgarinov , I think , ' say Karenin .
' Bolgarinov quite agree , as far as he be concern , ' return Oblonsky with a blush .
he blush at the mention of Bolgarinov , because he have that morning be to see the Jew and the visit have leave an unpleasant impression on his mind .
Oblonsky be firmly convinced that the business he wish to serve be new , alive , and honest ; but that morning when Bolgarinov , with obvious intention , make he wait two hour in his waiting - room with other petitioner , he have suddenly feel uncomfortable .
whether it be that he , Prince Oblonsky , a descendant of Rurik , be wait two hour in a Jew 's waiting - room , or that , for the first time in his life , he be depart from the example set by his ancestor of serve the state only and be enter on a new field , at any rate he feel uncomfortable .
during those two hour in Bolgarinov 's waiting - room he have walk about boldly , smooth his whisker , enter into conversation with other applicant , invent a joke to tell , of how he have wait at the Jew 's , carefully conceal his feeling from other and even from himself .
but all the time he feel uncomfortable and vex without know why . be it that nothing would come of his pun : ' I have business with a Jew , but could not get at he even to say ajew ( adieu ) , ' or be it something else ?
and when Bolgarinov at length receive he with extreme politeness , evidently triumph in his humiliation , and very nearly refuse his request , Oblonsky hasten to forget it as quickly as he could ; and only now on recollect it blush .
' now there be another matter ; you know what it be ... about Anna , ' say Oblonsky after a short pause , when he have shake off the unpleasant recollection .
directly Oblonsky mention Anna 's name Karenin 's face entirely change . instead of its former animation it express weariness and lifelessness ..
' what be it you wish of I ? ' Karenin say , turn round in his chair and fold his pince - nez .
' a decision , some decision , Alexis Alexandrovich !
I address myself to you not as ... ' he be go to say , ' as an offend husband , ' but , afraid of injure his case thereby , he change the expression to ' not as a statesman ' ( this sound inappropriate ) ' but simply as a man , a kind man and a Christian !
you should have pity on she . '
' what do you mean exactly ? ' ask Karenin in a low tone .
' why , pity she !
if you have see she as I have who have spend the whole winter with she , you would pity she .
her position be awful ! literally awful ! '
' it seem to I , ' return Karenin in a more high - pitch , almost squeaky voice , ' that Anna Arkadyevna have everything she herself desire . '
' oh , Alexis Alexandrovich ! for God 's sake do not let we have any recrimination !
what be past be past ! you know what she want and be wait for : the divorce . '
' but I understand that Anna Arkadyevna decline a divorce if I insist on keep my son .
I answer in that sense and think the matter be close .
I consider it close , ' shrieked Karenin .
' for heaven 's sake do not excite yourself , ' say Oblonsky , touch his brother - in - law 's knee . ' the matter be not closed .
if you will let I recapitulate , this be how matter stand : when you part , you be great , as magnanimous as a man can possibly be ; you consent to everything : her freedom and even a divorce .
she appreciate that .
yes , do not think otherwise !
she really appreciate it !
she appreciate it to such a degree that , at the moment , feel herself to blame toward you , she do not consider and could not consider everything .
she renounce everything .
but fact and time have show that her situation be torment and impossible . '
' Anna Arkadyevna 's life can not interest I , ' interpose Karenin , lift his brow .
' allow I not to believe that , ' Oblonsky rejoin gently . ' her situation be torment to she and do not benefit anyone .
" she have deserve it , " you may say .
she know that and do not ask you for anything . she say plainly that she dare not ask anything .
but I , and all her relative , who all love she , beg and implore you !
why should she be so torment ?
who gain by it ? '
' excuse I ! you seem to be place I in the position of defendant , ' Karenin remonstrate .
understand I ! ' say Oblonsky , now touch Karenin 's hand , as if he be sure that the contact would soften his brother - in - law . ' all I say be that her position be torment , and could be make easy by you , without any detriment to yourself .
I would arrange everything for you so that you would not be bother .
you see , you promise ! '
' the promise be give before , and I think the question about my son have settle the matter ...
besides , I hope that Anna Arkadyevna would have generosity enough ... ' utter Karenin with difficulty , his lip tremble and his face turn pale .
' she leave everything to your generosity !
she ask , she plead for one thing only : help she out of the intolerable position she be in !
she no long ask for her son ...
Alexis Alexandrovich ! you be a good man .
enter for a moment into her situation .
the question of a divorce be for she – in her position – one of life and death .
if you have not promise before , she would have grown reconcile to her position and have go on live in the country .
but as you have promise , she write to you and move to Moscow .
and now in Moscow where every time she meet anyone it be like a knife in her heart , she have be live for six month every day expect your decision .
why , it be like keep a man condemn to death with the halter round his neck for month , promise he either death or a reprieve !
have pity on she , and I undertake to arrange ...
your scruple ... '
' I be not speak of that ... of that ... ' Karenin interrupt he in a disgusted tone . ' but perhaps I promise something I have no right to promise . '
' then you refuse what you promise ? '
' I have never refuse to do what be possible , but I want time to consider in how far what be promise be possible . '
' no , Alexis Alexandrovich ! ' say Oblonsky , jump to his foot . ' I will not believe that !
she be as wretched as a woman can be , and you can not refuse such a ... '
' as far as what I promise be possible .
Vous professez d'être un libre penseur , [ you profess to be a freethinker . ] but I , as a believer , in so important a matter can not act contrary to the christian law . '
' but in christian community , and in ours too as far as I know , divorce be permit , ' say Oblonsky . ' divorce be also permit by our Church .
and we see ... '
' it be permit , but not in that sense . '
' Alexis Alexandrovich , I do not recognize you ! ' say Oblonsky after a pause . ' be it not you ( and do we not appreciate it ? ) who forgave everything , and , move just by christian feeling , be ready to sacrifice everything ?
you yourself say " give your coat when they would take your cloak ... " ! and now ... '
' I beg , ' begin Karenin in a shrill voice , suddenly rise to his foot , pale and with tremble jaw , ' I beg you to stop ... stop ... this conversation ! '
' oh , no !
well then , forgive I ! forgive I if I have pain you , ' say Oblonsky with an embarrassed smile , hold out his hand . ' I only deliver my message as an envoy . '
Karenin give he his hand , reflect , and then say :
' I must think it over and seek for guidance .
the day after to - morrow I will give you a final answer , ' he add , after consideration .
OBLONSKY be just leave when Korney enter and announce :
' Sergey Alexeyich ! '
' who be Sergey Alexeyich ? ' Oblonsky be about to ask , but immediately recollect .
' oh , Serezha ! ' he say . ' Sergey Alexeyich !
why , I think it be the Director of the Department ! ' and he remember that Anna have ask he to see the boy .
he recall the timid pathetic look with which Anna at part from he have say : ' anyhow , you will see he .
find out everything : where he be , who be with he .
and , Steve ... if it be possible ...
be not it possible ? '
he have understand what ' if it be possible ' mean . it mean , if it be possible to arrange the divorce so that she should have her son ...
but now Oblonsky see that it be useless even to think of that ; he be , however , glad to see his nephew .
Karenin remind his brother - in - law that they never mention his mother to the boy , and ask he not to say a word about she .
' he be very ill after that unexpected interview with his mother , ' remark Karenin . ' we even fear for his life .
but sensible treatment and sea - bathing in the summer have restore his health , and now , on the doctor 's advice , I send he to school .
the influence of his schoolfellow have really have a good effect on he , and he be quite well and learn well . '
' Hullo ! what a fine fellow !
true enough , it be not little Serezha now , but a complete Sergey Alexeyich ! ' say Oblonsky , smile as he look at a handsome boy in a blue jacket and long trouser who enter the room boldly and confidently .
the lad look healthy and bright .
he bow to his uncle as to a stranger , but recognize he he blush and turn away from he quickly as if offend and angry about something .
the boy come up to his father and hand he his school report .
' well , that be pretty good , ' say his father . ' you may go now . '
' he have grow thin and tall , and be no long a child but a regular boy , ' say Oblonsky . ' I like it . do you remember I ? '
the boy glance swiftly at his father .
' I do , mon oncle , ' he answer , look at his uncle and then again lower his eye .
his uncle call he near and take his hand .
' well , how be thing ? ' say he , wish to start a conversation , but not know what to say .
the boy , blushing and not answer , gently withdraw his hand from his uncle 's grasp .
as soon as Oblonsky release it , after a questioning glance at his father , he hastily leave the room like a bird let out of its cage .
a year have pass since Serezha last see his mother .
since then he have not hear any more of she .
during this year he have be send to school , and have learn to know his schoolmate and to like they .
the dream and memory of his mother which , after their interview , have make he ill , no long occupy he .
when they rise in his memory he take pain to drive they away , consider they shameful and fit only for girl , but not for a boy and a chum .
he know that his father and mother have have a quarrel which separate they ; know that it be his fate to remain with his father , and he try to accustom himself to that thought .
he feel uncomfortable at meet his uncle , who resemble his mother , because it awaken those very memory which he consider shameful .
it be the more disagreeable because from some word he have overhear while wait outside the study door , and especially from his father 's and uncle 's face , he guess that they have be talk about his mother .
and in order not to blame the father with whom he live and upon whom he depend , and above all not to give way to the sensibility which he consider so degrading , Serezha try not to look at that uncle , who have come to upset his peace of mind , and not to think of what be call to mind by the sight of he .
but when Oblonsky , who have come out after he , see he on the stair , and call he and ask how he spend his time between lesson at school , Serezha , in his father 's absence , get into conversation with he .
' we play at railway now , ' he say , answer the question . ' you see , it be this way : two sit down on a form ; they be passenger .
one stand on the same form .
the other all harness themselves to it – they may do it with their hand or their belt – and then off they go through all the room .
the door be open beforehand ...
it be not easy to be the guard ! '
' that be the one who stand up ? ' ask Oblonsky with a smile .
' yes . it need courage and quickness , especially if they stop suddenly , or if somebody fall down . '
' yes , that be no joke , ' say Oblonsky , look sadly into those animate eye so like the mother 's – an infant 's eye no long , and no long altogether innocent .
and , in spite of his promise to Karenin , he could not refrain from speak of Anna .
' do you remember your mother ? ' he suddenly ask .
' no , I do not ! ' hurriedly reply Serezha , and blush scarlet he hang down his head .
his uncle could get nothing more out of he .
half an hour later the slav tutor find his pupil on the stair , and for a long while could not make out whether he be in a temper or be simply cry .
' I expect you hurt yourself when you fall down ? ' say the tutor . ' I tell you it be a dangerous game .
I shall have to tell your head master about it . '
' if I have hurt myself no one would have know it , that be quite certain ! '
' well then , what be it ? '
' leave I alone !
if I do remember , or if I do not ... what business be it of his ?
why should I remember ?
leave I alone ! ' he say , now address not his tutor but the world in general .
as be his WONT , Oblonsky do not spend his time idly while in Petersburg .
besides business – his sister 's divorce and his post – it be as usual necessary for he , as he say , to refresh himself in Petersburg after the mustiness of Moscow .
Moscow , despite its cafés chantant and its omnibus , be still a stagnant pool .
Oblonsky always feel this .
after live in Moscow , especially in the bosom of his family , Oblonsky always feel his spirit flag .
when he have spend a long time in Moscow without a break , he reach a state in which he begin to be upset by his wife 's ill - humour and reproach , by the health and education of the child , and the petty detail of his work ; even the fact that he be in debt worry he then .
but he only need to spend some time in Petersburg among the set in which he move , where people live , really live , instead of vegetate as in Moscow , and at once all these care vanish and melt away like wax before a fire .
his wife ? ...
only that day he have be talk to Prince Chechensky .
he have a wife and family with grow - up son who be page at Court ; and another family , an illegitimate one , in which there be other child .
though the first family be all right , Prince Chechensky feel happy with the second family .
he take his eld son to visit the second family , and tell Oblonsky that he consider it develop his son and be good for he .
what would they say to that in Moscow ?
child ?
in Petersburg child do not hinder their father live .
child be bring up in educational establishment , and there be none of those barbaric view that be become so prevalent in Moscow – Lvov 's be a case in point – that the child should have every luxury and the parent nothing but work and worry .
here people understand that a man must live his own life like a civilized being .
the Service ! ...
service too be not here that strained , hopeless drudgery that it be in Moscow ; here there be an interest in the Service .
meet the right person , a service render , a felicitous remark , the ability to perform certain trick , make a man 's career in a moment , as be the case with Bryantsov , whom Oblonsky have meet the day before , and who be now a great dignitary .
service of that kind have an interest .
but it be the Petersburg outlook on money matter that have a particularly soothing effect on Oblonsky .
Bartnyansky , who spend at least fifty thousand rouble a year at the rate he be live , have the day before make a notable remark to he on the point .
as they be have a chat before dinner , Oblonsky have say to Bartnyansky :
' you be , I think , intimate with Mordvinsky ? you could do I a good turn if you would put in a word for I .
there be a post I should like to get ...
Member of the Agency ... '
' never mind the name , I should not remember it ! … but why do you want to mix in those railway concern , with Jews ? ...
look at it how you like , it be horrid ! '
Oblonsky do not tell he that it be a ' live ' business . Bartnyansky would not have understand that .
' I be hard up ; have nothing to live on . '
' but you do live . '
' yes , but in debt . '
' really ?
be it much ? ' ask Bartnyansky sympathetically .
' very much : about twenty thousand rouble . '
Bartnyansky burst into merry laughter .
' oh , you lucky fellow ! ' he cry . ' my debt amount to a million and a half , and I have nothing ! but , as you see , I still find it possible to live ! '
Oblonsky know this to be true , not only from hearsay but from actual fact .
Zhivakhov , whose debt amount to three hundred thousand rouble , do not possess a penny and yet he live , and how he live !
Count Krivtsov , whose case have long be consider hopeless , still keep two mistress .
Petrovsky have run through five million , continue live in just the same style , and even direct the Finance Department and receive a salary of twenty thousand .
but , apart from that , Petersburg act pleasantly on Oblonsky physically .
it make he young .
in Moscow he sometimes notice some grey hair ; fall asleep after dinner ; stretch himself ; walk slowly upstairs , breathe heavily ; feel dull among young woman , and do not dance at ball .
in Petersburg he always feel that he have shake off ten year .
in Petersburg he feel what the sixty - year - old Prince Peter Oblonsky , who have just return from abroad , have describe to he only the day before .
' here we do not know how to live , ' Peter Oblonsky have say . ' would you believe it ?
I spend the summer in Baden and really feel quite like a young man .
I see a young woman , and my fancy ...
I dine , drink a little , and feel strong and full of spirit . I return to Russia and have to be with my wife , and in the country besides , and in a fortnight I take to a dressing - gown and give up dress for dinner !
and as to think about young woman ! ...
why , I have turn into quite an old man !
there be nothing leave for I but to think of save my soul ...
then I go to Paris , and again recover . '
Stephen experience just the same difference as Peter Oblonsky .
in Moscow he let himself go to such an extent that , have he continue to live there long , he might even have come to the soul - save stage ; but in Petersburg he again feel quite a smart fellow .
between the Princess Betsy Tverskaya and Oblonsky there exist long - establish and very peculiar relation .
Oblonsky in fun always pay court to she , and tell she the most indecent thing also in fun , know that she like that more than anything .
the day after his interview with Karenin , Oblonsky , call on she , feel so youthful that he go accidentally to such length in this bantering courtship and humbug that he do not know how to get out of it , for unfortunately she be not merely unattractive but actually repulsive to he .
this tone have spring up between they because he be very attractive to she .
so he have be very pleased when the Princess Myagkaya turn up , and put an end to their tête - à - tête .
' ah , so you be here ! ' she say on see he . ' well , how be your poor sister ?
do not look at I like that , ' she add . ' since every one have be attack she – all those who be a hundred thousand time bad than she – I have think she have act splendidly .
I can not forgive Vronsky for not let I know when she be in Petersburg .
I would have go to she and with she everywhere .
please give she my love ...
well , tell I about she . '
' yes , her situation be a hard one ... ' Oblonsky begin , in the simplicity of his heart take the Princess Myagkaya 's word for genuine coin when she say ' tell I about she . '
but the Princess Myagkaya immediately interrupt he , as be her habit , and commence tell her own tale .
' she have do what everybody , except myself , do secretly , and she would not deceive , and have act splendidly .
and the good thing she do be to leave that half - witted brother - in - law of yours !
excuse I .
every one use to say , " he be so clever , so clever . " I alone say that he be stupid .
now that he have get so chummy with Lydia Ivanovna and Landau , every one say he be half - witted ; and I should be glad not to agree with everybody , but this time I can not help it . '
' but do explain to I what it mean ! ' say Oblonsky .
' yesterday I call on he about my sister 's affair and ask he for a definite answer .
he do not give I an answer , but say he must think it over ; and this morning instead of an answer I have receive an invitation for this evening to go to the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's . '
' ah , that be it , that be it ! ' Princess Myagkaya begin joyfully . ' they will ask Landau and see what he say . '
' ask Landau ?
why ?
who be Landau ? '
' what ? you do not know Jules Landau , le fameux Jules Landau , le clairvoyant ?
[ the famous Jules Landau , the clairvoyant . ] he also be half - witted , but your sister 's fate depend on he .
see what come of live in the province : you know nothing !
Landau , you see , be a commis [ Shop - assistant . ] in Paris and go to see a doctor .
he fall asleep in the doctor 's waiting - room , and while asleep begin give advice to all the patient , and very strange advice too .
afterwards , Yury Meledinsky 's wife ( the invalid 's wife , you know ) hear of that Landau , and take he to see her husband .
he be treat her husband .
no good have be do in my opinion , for he be still just as weak , but they believe in he and take he about with they .
so they bring he to Russia .
here every one rush at he , and he begin treat everybody .
he cure the Countess Bezzubova , and she take such a fancy to he that she adopt he . '
' adopt ! how ? '
' simply adopt he !
he be now no long Landau , but Count Bezzubov .
however , that be not to the point ; but Lydia – I be very fond of she , but her head be not screw on right – naturally have rush at this Landau , and now nothing be settle either by she or by Karenin without he , so your sister 's fate be now in the hand of this Landau , alias Count Bezzubov . '
after an excellent dinner and a large quantity of brandy at Bartnyansky 's , Oblonsky , only a little after the appoint time , enter the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's house .
' who be with the Countess ?
the Frenchman ? ' Oblonsky ask the hall - porter , notice on the hall - stand Karenin 's overcoat , which he recognize , and a strange , absurd - look paletot with clasp .
' Alexis Alexandrovich Karenin and Count Bezzubov , ' the hall - porter reply severely .
' the Princess Myagkaya guess correctly , ' think Oblonsky as he ascend the stair . ' strange !
but it would be just as well to make friend with she .
she have tremendous influence .
if she would say a word to Pomorsky , the job be do . '
it be still quite light out of door , but in the Countess Lydia Ivanovna 's small drawing - room the blind be down and the lamp alight .
at the round table beneath a lamp sit the Countess and Karenin , converse in low tone .
a short lean man , with hip like a woman 's , knock - kneed , very pale , handsome , with beautiful shine eye and long hair that hang over the collar of his frock - coat , stand at the opposite end of the room , look at the portrait on the wall .
after greet the hostess and Karenin , Oblonsky involuntarily glance at the stranger once more .
' Monsieur Landau ! ' the Countess address he with a softness and caution that strike Oblonsky .
and she introduce they .
Landau hurriedly look round , approach smilingly , lay upon Oblonsky 's outstretched hand his own moist and motionless one , go back , and continue look at the portrait .
the Countess and Karenin glance at each other significantly .
' I be very pleased to see you , especially to - day , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , point to a seat beside Karenin .
' I introduce he to you as Landau , ' she say softly , glance at the Frenchman and then back at Oblonsky , ' but really he be Count Bezzubov , as you probably know .
but he do not like that title . '
' yes , I have hear , ' reply Oblonsky . ' they say he have completely cure the Countess Bezzubov . '
' she call on I to - day , and be so pathetic , ' say the Countess , turn to Karenin . ' this separation be dreadful for she .
it be such a blow to she ! '
' be he go definitely ? ' inquire Karenin .
' yes , he be go to Paris .
he hear a voice yesterday , ' say the Countess , with a look at Oblonsky .
' ah , a voice ! ' Oblonsky remark , feel that he must be as careful as possible in this company , where something peculiar occur , or be suppose to occur , to which he as yet lack a clue .
after a momentary pause the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , as if come to the important point , turn with a subtle smile to Oblonsky .
' I have know you a long time , and be very pleased to know you more intimately .
Les amis de nos amis sont nos amis .
[ the friend of our friend be our friend . ] but to be a friend , one must enter into the state of the friend 's soul , and I fear you will not do so in relation to Alexis Alexandrovich .
you understand what I be speak about ? ' she say , lift her beautiful dreamy eye .
' to some extent , Countess ! I understand that Alexis Alexandrovich 's position ... ' say Oblonsky , not quite grasp what it be all about , and therefore wish to keep to generality .
' the change be not in his external position , ' Lydia Ivanovna say severely as her enamoured eye follow Karenin , who have rise and join Landau . ' his heart be change ; he have be give a new heart , and I fear that you may not have realize fully that change which have be accomplish within he . '
' well , broadly speak , I can picture to myself the change .
we have always be friendly , and now ... ' Oblonsky say , answer her look with a tender gaze , while he consider with which of two minister she be the more closely connect – so as to judge which of they he should ask she to influence on his behalf .
' the change that have take place in he can not weaken his love for his neighbour ; on the contrary , that change must strengthen his love .
but I fear you do not understand I .
will not you have some tea ? ' she say , indicate with her eye the footman who be hand tea round on a tray .
' not quite , Countess .
of course his misfortune ... '
' yes , a misfortune which have turn into a great blessing , because his heart become new and be fill with he , ' she say , glance at Oblonsky with lovesick eye .
' I think I might ask she to mention I to both , ' think he .
' oh , certainly , Countess ! ' he say . ' but I think such change be so very intimate that nobody , not even the close friend , care to speak about they . '
' on the contrary !
we must speak , and so help one another . '
' yes , of course , but there be such difference of conviction , and besides ... ' say Oblonsky with a gentle smile .
' there can not be any difference in what concern the holy Truth ! '
' oh no , of course not ! but ... ' and , become embarrassed , Oblonsky stop short .
he realize that it be a question of religion .
' it seem to I he will fall asleep directly , ' say Karenin in a significant whisper , approach Lydia Ivanovna .
Oblonsky turn .
Landau be sit by the window lean against the arm and back of an easy - chair , with his head hang down .
notice the look direct toward he , he smile a childishly naive smile .
' take no notice of he , ' say Lydia Ivanovna , and with an agile movement she push forward a chair for Karenin . ' I have notice ... ' she begin , when a footman enter with a note .
Lydia Ivanovna rapidly read the note and , excuse herself , with extreme rapidity write and despatch the answer and return to the table . ' I have notice , ' she continue her interrupted sentence , ' that Muscovites , man especially , be most indifferent to religion . '
' oh no , Countess ! I think muscovite have the reputation of be the most steadfast believer , ' reply Oblonsky .
' but , as far as I know , you unfortunately be one of the indifferent ? ' Karenin remark to he , with a weary smile .
' how can one be indifferent ? ' say Lydia Ivanovna .
' I be in this respect not precisely indifferent , but rather expectant , ' say Oblonsky with his most mollify smile . ' I do not think that for I the time for those question have yet come . '
Karenin and Lydia Ivanovna exchange look .
' we never know whether our time have come or not , ' Karenin say sternly . ' we should not consider whether we be ready or not ; grace be not influence by human calculation . sometimes it do not descend on those who seek it , but descend on the unprepared , as on Saul . '
' no , not yet , I think , ' say Lydia Ivanovna , who be watch the Frenchman 's movement .
Landau rise and come up to they .
' you will allow I to listen ? ' he ask .
' oh yes ! I do not wish to disturb you , ' say Lydia , look tenderly at he . ' sit down beside we . '
' only one must not shut one 's eye , so as to deprive oneself of light , ' Karenin continue .
' oh , if you only know the happiness we experience , feel his continual presence in our soul ! ' cry the Countess Lydia Ivanovna with a beatific smile .
' but one may sometimes feel incapable of ascend to such height , ' remark Oblonsky , conscious that he be not quite honest in acknowledge the existence of religious height , yet not venture to confess his scepticism in the presence of one who , by a single word to Pomorsky , might secure he the desire post .
' you mean to say , he be prevent by sin ? ' say Lydia Ivanovna . ' but that be a false view .
sin do not exist for a believer ; sin have already be atone for ...
excuse I ! ' she add , glance at the footman who enter with another note .
she read it , and answer by word of mouth : ' tell he , " to - morrow at the Grand Duchess 's " ... for those who believe , there be no sin , ' she go on .
' yes , but faith without work be dead , ' say Oblonsky , recall that sentence from the catechism , and only by a smile maintain his independence .
' there it be , from the Epistle of St James , ' say Karenin , address Lydia Ivanovna in a somewhat reproachful tone . evidently this be a point they have discuss more than once .
' how much harm have be do by a false interpretation of that passage !
nothing turn so many from the faith as that interpretation , " I have no work , and therefore can not have faith . "
yet it be not so say anywhere ; just the contrary be say . '
' to labour for God with work ; to save one 's soul by fast , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanovna with fastidious disdain , ' those be the barbarous opinion of our monk ...
yet it be not so say anywhere .
it be much simple and easy , ' she add , look at Oblonsky with the same encouraging smile with which at Court she encourage young Maids of Honour who be confuse by their new surrounding .
' we be save by Christ , who suffer for we .
we be save by faith , ' Karenin chime in , show his approval of her remark by a look .
[ you understand English ? ] ask Lydia Ivanovna and having receive an affirmative answer she rise and begin look among the book on a shelf . ' I want to read Safe and happy , or , under the wing , ' she say with a questioning look at Karenin .
and having find the book and sit down again , she open it . ' it be quite short .
it describe the way to acquire faith and the joy , high than anything else on earth , with which it fill the soul .
a believer can not be unhappy because he be not alone .
but you will see ... ' she be about to begin read when the footman come in again . ' Borozdina ?
say " to - morrow at two " ... yes , ' she go on , keep her finger in the book to mark the place , and sigh , look with her beautiful dreamy eye straight before she .
' this be how true faith act .
you know Mary Sanina ?
you have hear of her misfortune ?
she lose her only child .
she be in despair .
well , and what happen ? she find this friend , and now she thank God for her child 's death .
that be the happiness faith give ! '
' oh yes , it be very ... ' begin Oblonsky , glad that she be go to read and give he time to get his idea together .
' no , evidently it will be well not to ask for anything to - night , ' he reflect ; ' only let I get away from here without make a mess of thing ! '
' it will be dull for you , ' say the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , turn to Landau , ' as you do not understand English ; but it be quite short . '
' oh , I shall understand , ' reply Landau with the same smile , and close his eye .
Karenin and Lydia Ivanovna exchange significant look , and the reading begin .
OBLONSKY FELT COMPLETELY puzzle by the strange and novel language he be listen to .
generally the complication of Petersburg life have an exhilarating effect on he , lift he out of the Moscow stagnation . but he like and understand complication in sphere congenial and familiar to he ; in these strange surrounding he feel puzzled and dazed and could not take it all in .
listen to the Countess Lydia Ivanovna and feel the fine eye , naive or roguish – he do not know which – of Landau fix upon he , Oblonsky begin to be conscious of a peculiar sort of heaviness in his head .
the most varied idea be mix up in his mind .
' Mary Sanina be glad that her child be dead ...
I should like to have a smoke ...
to be save one need only have faith ; the monk do not know how to do it , but the Countess Lydia Ivanovna know ...
and what be so heavy in my head ?
be it the brandy , or be it because all this be so very strange ?
all the same , I think I have not do anything to shock they up till now .
but still , it will not do to ask her help now .
I have hear that they make one pray .
supposing they make I pray !
that would be too stupid !
and what nonsense she be read , but her enunciation be good ...
Landau Bezzubov ...
why be he Bezzubov ? '
suddenly Oblonsky feel his nether jaw drop irresistibly for a yawn .
he smooth his whisker to hide the yawn , and give himself a shake .
but then he feel himself fall asleep , and nearly snore .
he rouse himself , just when the Countess Lydia Ivanovna utter the word : ' he be asleep . '
Oblonsky awake in a fright , feel guilty and detect .
but he be immediately comfort by notice that the word ' he be asleep ' do not apply to he but to Landau .
the Frenchman have fall asleep just as Oblonsky have do .
but whereas Oblonsky 's sleep would , he imagine , have offend they – he do not really even think this , for everything seem so strange – Landau 's sleep delight they extremely , especially Lydia Ivanovna .
' Mon ami , ' say she , carefully hold the fold of her silk dress to prevent its rustling , and in her excitement call Karenin not ' Alexis Alexandrovich ' but ' mon ami , ' ' donnez - lui la main . Vour voyez ? ' ...
[ my friend , give he your hand . you see ? ]
hush ! ' she say to the footman , who come in again . ' I be not receive . '
the Frenchman sleep or pretend to sleep , lean his head against the back of the chair , and his moist hand lie on his knee move feebly , as if catch something .
Karenin rise , and though he try to be cautious he catch against the table . he go up to the Frenchman and place his hand in his .
Oblonsky also rise and , open his eye wide to wake himself up in case he be asleep , look first at one and then at the other .
it be all quite real , and Oblonsky feel his head get bad and bad .
' Que la personne qui est arrivée la derniere , celle qui demande , qu'elle sorte ! Qu'elle sorte ! '
[ let the person who arrive last , the one who question , go out ! let he go out ! ] the Frenchman say , without open his eye .
' Vous m'excuserez , mais vous voyez ... Revenez ver dix heures , encore maeux demain . '
[ you must excuse I , but you see ... come back at about ten , or well still , to - morrow . ]
' Qu'elle sorte ! ' repeat the Frenchman impatiently .
' C'est moi , n'est - ce pas ? ' [ it be I , be it not ? ]
and having receive an answer in the affirmative , Oblonsky – forget the request he have want to make to Lydia Ivanovna , forget his sister 's affair , and with the one desire to get away from there as quickly as possible – go out on tiptoe , and run out into the street as from an infected house . after which he talk and joke for a long time with an izvoshchik , try to regain his sense as soon as possible .
at the French Theatre , where he arrive in time for the last act , and afterwards at the Tartar Restaurant , where he have some champagne , Oblonsky be able to some extent to breathe again in an atmosphere congenial to he , but nevertheless he be not at all himself that evening .
when he return to Peter Oblonsky 's house , where he be stay , he find a note from Betsy .
she write that she greatly wish to finish the conversation they have begin , and ask he to call next day .
scarcely have he finish read the note and make a wry face over it , when he hear downstairs the heavy step of man carry something heavy .
he go down to see what it be .
it be Peter Oblonsky , grow young again .
he be so drunk that he could not get up the stair , but on see Oblonsky he order the man to put he on his foot and , cling to Stephen , he go with he to his room , begin relate how he have spend the evening , and fall asleep there .
Oblonsky be in low spirit , a thing that rarely happen to he , and could not fall asleep for a long time .
everything he recall be nauseous , but most repulsive of all , like something shameful , be the memory of the evening at Lydia Ivanovna 's .
next day he receive from Karenin a definite refusal to divorce Anna , and understand that this decision be base on what the Frenchman have say the evening before , in his real or pretended sleep .
before any definite step can be taken in a household , there must be either complete division or love accord between husband and wife .
when their relation be indefinite it be impossible for they to make any move .
many family continue for year in their old rut , hate by both husband and wife , merely because there be neither complete discord nor harmony .
both for Vronsky and for Anna life in Moscow in the heat and dust , when the sun no long shine as in spring but burn as in summer , when all the tree on the boulevard have long be in leaf and the leave be already cover with dust , be intolerable ; nevertheless they do not move to Vozdvizhensk , as they have long ago decide to do , but stay in Moscow , which have become obnoxious to they both , because of late there have not be harmony between they .
the irritation which divide they have no tangible cause , and all attempt at an explanation not only fail to clear it away but increase it .
it be an inner irritation , cause on her side by a diminution of his love for she , and on his by regret that for her sake he have place himself in a distressing situation , which she , instead of try to alleviate , make still hard .
neither of they speak of the cause of their irritation , but each think the other in the wrong , and at every opportunity try to prove that this be so .
for she he , with all his habit , thought , wish , mental and physical faculty – the whole of his nature – consist of one thing only : love for woman , and this love she feel ought to be wholly concentrated on she alone . this love be diminish ; therefore , in her judgment , part of his love must have be transfer to other woman , or to one other woman .
she be jealous , not of any one woman , but of the diminution of his love .
not have as yet an object for her jealousy , she seek one .
at the slight hint she transfer her jealousy from one object to another .
now she be jealous of the coarse woman with whom , through his bachelor connection , he might so easily have intercourse ; now of the Society woman whom he might meet ; now of some imaginary girl whom he might marry after repudiate she .
this last jealousy torment she more than anything else , especially since in an expansive moment he have carelessly tell she that his mother understand he so little that she have try to persuade he to marry the young Princess Sorokina .
and be jealous , Anna be indignant with he and constantly seek reason to justify her indignation .
she blame he for everything that be hard in her situation .
the torture of expectation , live betwixt heaven and earth , which she endure there in Moscow , Karenin 's dilatoriness and indecision , her loneliness – she attribute all to he .
if he love she he would fully understand the difficulty of her situation , and would deliver she from it .
that they be live in Moscow , instead of in the country , be also his fault .
he could not live bury in the country as she desire .
he need society , and so he have place she in this terrible position , the misery of which he would not understand .
and it be likewise his fault that she be for ever part from her son .
even the rare moment of tenderness which occur between they do not pacify she ; in his tenderness she now see a tinge of calm assurance which have not be there before and irritate she .
it be grow dusk .
Anna , all alone , await his return from a bachelor dinner - party , pace up and down his study ( which be the room in which the street noise be least audible ) , recall in detail every word of their yesterday 's quarrel .
pass ever backwards from the memorably offensive word of the quarrel to their cause , she at last get back to the beginning of their conversation .
for a long time she could not believe that the dispute have begin from a perfectly inoffensive conversation about a matter that do not touch the heart of either .
yet it be so .
it have all begin by his laughing at High Schools for girl , which he consider unnecessary and she defend .
he speak disrespectfully of the education of woman in general , and say that Hannah , her little english protegée , do not at all need to know physic .
this provoke Anna .
she see in it a contemptuous allusion to her own knowledge ; and she invent and utter a phrase in retaliation which should revenge the pain he have cause she .
' I do not expect you to understand I and my feeling , as an affectionate man would ; but I do expect ordinary delicacy , ' she say .
and he really have flush with vexation and have say something disagreeable .
she do not remember her reply to it , but remember that in answer he have say with obvious intent to hurt she too :
' I can take no interest in your partiality for that little girl , because I can see that it be unnatural . '
the cruelty with which he annihilate the world which she have so painfully construct for herself to be able to endure her hard life , the injustice of his accusation that she be dissemble and unnatural , rouse her indignation .
' I be very sorry that only what be coarse and material be comprehensible and natural to you , ' she retort and leave the room .
when he come to she in the evening they do not refer to the quarrel , but both feel that it be only smoothed over , not settle .
to - day he have be away from home all day , and she have feel so lonely , and it be so painful to feel herself at discord with he , that she wish to forget it all , to forgive and make it up with he . wish even to blame herself and to justify he , she say to herself :
' I be to blame ; I be irritable and unreasonably jealous .
I will make it up with he and we will go back to the country . there I shall be calm . '
' unnatural ! ' she suddenly remember the word that have hurt she most , though it be not so much the word as his intention to pain she .
' I know what he want to say : he want to say that it be unnatural not to love one 's own daughter and yet to love another 's child .
what do he know of love for child , – of my love for Serezha whom I have give up for his sake ?
and that desire to hurt I !
no , he must be in love with some other woman ; it can not be anything else . '
then , realize that in her attempt to quiet herself she have again complete the circle she have already go round so often , and have return to her former cause of irritation , she be horror - strike at herself .
' be it possible that I can not ... ?
be it possible that I can not take it on myself ? ' she wonder , and begin again from the beginning . ' he be truthful , he be honest .
he love I . I love he .
in a few day I shall get my divorce .
what more do I need ? I need calm and confidence ; and I will take the blame on myself .
yes , now , as soon as he come back , I will tell he I be to blame , though in fact I be not , and we will go away ! '
and not to continue think , and not to yield to irritation , she ring and order her trunk to be bring , to pack their thing for the country .
at ten o'clock Vronsky return .
' well , have you had a good TIME ? ' she ask , come out to meet he with a meek and repentant look on her face .
' just as usual , ' he answer , perceive at a glance that she be in one of her pleasant mood .
he be already accustomed to these transition , and to - day be specially glad , because he himself be in the good of spirit .
' what do I see ?
ah , that be right ! ' he say , point to the trunk in the ante - room .
' yes we must go away .
I go for a drive , and it be so lovely that I long to be in the country .
there be not anything to keep you , be there ? '
' it be my only wish .
I will come in a moment and we will have a talk . I will only go and change .
order tea . '
and he go to his room .
there be something offensive in his saying : ' ah , that be right ! ' – as one speak to a child when it stop be capricious – and still more offensive be the contrast between her guilty tone and his self - confident one . for a moment she feel a desire to fight rise within she , but with an effort she master it and meet he with her former cheerfulness .
when he return she tell he , partly repeat word she have prepare , how she have spend the day and her plan for the move to the country .
' do you know , it come to I almost like an inspiration ? ' say she . ' why must we wait here for the divorce ?
will not it do just as well in the country ?
I can not wait any long .
I do not want to hope , I do not want to hear anything about the divorce .
I have make up my mind that it shall not influence my life any more .
do you agree ? '
' oh yes ! ' he answer , look uneasily at her excited face .
' well , and what have you be do ? who be there ? ' she ask after a pause .
Vronsky name the guest . ' the dinner be capital , the boat - race and everything quite nice , but in Moscow they can not get on without do something ridiculous ...
some sort of a lady turn up – the Queen of Sweden 's swimming instructress – and display her art . '
' what ? she swam ? ' ask Anna , with a frown .
' yes , in some sort of red costume de natation [ Swimming costume . ] – a hideous old creature !
well then , when be we to be off ? '
' what an absurd fancy !
and do she swim in some particular way ? ' ask Anna , without answer his question .
' nothing particular at all .
I say it be awfully absurd ...
well , when do you think of go ? '
Anna shake her head , as though drive away an unpleasant thought .
' when be we go ?
why , the soon the well .
we can not get ready by to - morrow ; but the day after ? '
' yes ... no !
wait a bit ! the day after to - morrow be Sunday , and I must go and see maman , ' say Vronsky , and become confused , because as soon as he have mention his mother he feel an intent and suspicious gaze fix upon he .
his embarrassment confirm her suspicion .
she flush and move away from he .
it be no long the queen of Sweden 's instructress but the Princess Sorokina who live in the country near Moscow with the Countess Vronskaya who present herself to Anna 's imagination .
' you could go there to - morrow ! ' she say .
' no , I tell you !
the thing about which I have to go – to fetch a power of attorney and some money – will not have arrive by to - morrow , ' he reply .
' if that be so , then we will not go at all ! '
' but why not ? '
' I will not go any later !
Monday , or not at all . '
' why be that ? ' say Vronsky , as if in surprise . ' there be no sense in that . '
' you see no sense in it because you do not care at all about I .
you do not want to understand what my life be .
the one person I be interested in here be Hannah – you say that be all pretence !
you say yesterday that I do not love my daughter but pretend to love that english girl , and that it be unnatural ! I should like to know what sort of life can be natural for I here ! '
for a moment she recollect herself and be horrify at having break her resolution .
yet though she know she be ruin her cause , she could not restrain herself , could not forbear point out to he how wrong he be , and could not submit to he .
' I never say that ; I only say that I do not sympathize with that sudden affection . '
' why do you , who boast of your truthfulness , not speak the truth ? '
' I never boast and never tell untruth , ' he say softly , restrain his rise anger . ' it be a great pity if you do not respect ... '
' respect be invent to fill the empty place where love ought to be !
but if you no long love I , it would be well and more honourable to say so ! '
' dear I ! this be become unbearable ! ' exclaim Vronsky , rise from his chair . and stand before she he slowly bring out : ' why be you test my patience ? ' he look as if he could have say much more , but restrain himself . ' it have its limit ! '
' what do you mean by that ? ' she cry , glance with terror at the definite expression of hatred on his whole face , and especially in the cruel , menacing eye .
' I mean to say ... ' he begin , but stop . ' I must ask what you want of I ! '
' what can I want ?
I can only want you not to abandon I , as you be think of do , ' she say , having understand all that he have leave unsaid . ' but I do not want that , that be secondary .
what I want be love , and it be lack .
therefore all be finish ! '
she move toward the door .
' stop !
St - o - op ! ' say Vronsky , his brow still knit , but hold she back by the hand . ' what be the matter ?
I say we must put off our departure for three day , and you reply that I lie and be not an honourable man . '
' yes ! and I repeat that a man who reproach I because he have give up everything for my sake , ' say she , recall the word of a still early quarrel , ' be bad than a dishonourable man ! he be a heartless man ! '
' no ! there be limit to one 's endurance , ' he exclaim , and quickly let go her hand .
' he hate I , that be clear , ' think she , and silently , without look round and with falter step , she leave the room .
' he love another woman , that be clear still , ' she say to herself as she enter her own room . ' I want love , and it be lack .
so everything be finish ! ' she repeat her own word , ' and it must be finish . '
' but how ? ' she ask herself , and sit down in the arm - chair before the look - glass .
thought of where she would now go : to the aunt who have bring she up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he be now do , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel be final or whether a reconciliation be still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintance would say of she now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thought about what would happen now after the rupture , pass through her mind , but she do not give herself up entirely to these thought .
in her soul there be another vague idea , which alone interest she , but of which she could not get hold .
again remember Karenin , she also remember her illness after her confinement , and the feeling that never leave she at that time .
she remember . her word , ' why do I not die ? ' and her feeling then .
and suddenly she understand what be in her soul .
yes , that be the thought which would solve everything .
' yes , to die !
Alexis Alexandrovich 's shame and disgrace , and Serezha 's , and my own terrible shame – all will be save by my death .
if I die he too will repent , will pity I , will love I and will suffer on my account ! '
with a fix smile of self - pity on her lip she sit in the chair , take off and put on the ring on her left hand , and vividly picture to herself from various point of view his feeling after she be dead .
sound of approach step , his step , distract her thought .
pretend to be put away her ring , she do not even turn round .
he come up to she , and take her hand say softly :
' Anna , let we go the day after to - morrow , if you wish it .
I will agree to anything . '
she remain silent .
' what be it ? ' he ask .
' you know yourself ? ' say she , and at the same moment , unable to restrain herself any long , she burst into tear .
' abandon I ! abandon I ! ' she murmur between her sob .
' I will go away to - morrow .
I will do more ... what be I ?
a depraved woman . a stone round your neck !
I do not wish to torment you , I do not !
I will set you free .
you do not love I , you love some one else ! '
Vronsky implore she to be calm , and assure she that there be not an atom of foundation for her jealousy , that he never have cease , and never would cease , to love she , that he love she more than ever .
' Anna , why torture yourself and I like this ? ' he say , kiss her hand .
his face now wear a tender expression , and she think she detect in his voice the sound of tear , and their moisture on her hand .
and instantly her despairing jealousy change into desperate , passionate tenderness . she embrace he , and cover his head , his neck , and his hand with kiss .
feel that they be ENTIRELY reconciled , next morning Anna begin actively to make preparation for their move .
though it be not settle whether they would go on the Monday or on the Tuesday , as each the night before have yield to the other 's wish , Anna make all ready for their start , feel now quite indifferent whether they go a day soon or later .
she stand in her room before an open trunk , sort clothe , when he come in early than usual and ready dress .
' I will go to maman at once . she can send I the money through Egorov and I shall be ready to go to - morrow , ' say he .
good as the mood she be in might be , the reference to the move to the country prick she .
' oh no , I shall not be ready myself , ' she say , and immediately think : ' so it be possible to arrange thing as I wish ! ' – ' no , do as you wish to . go to the dining - room , I will come directly .
I will only sort out these thing that be not want , ' she say , place some more article on the heap of old clothe already pile up on Annushka 's arm .
Vronsky be eat his beefsteak when she enter the dining - room .
' you would hardly believe how disgusting these room have become to I ! ' she say , sit down to her coffee beside he . ' there be nothing bad than these furnished apartment !
they be expressionless and soulless .
this clock , the curtain , and , above all , the wall - paper be a nightmare !
I think of Vozdvizhensk as of a Promised Land .
you be not send off the horse yet ? '
' no , they will follow we .
be you drive out anywhere ? '
' I want to go to the Wilsons , to take she a dress .
so it be decide that we go to - morrow ? ' she say in a cheerful voice ; but suddenly her face change .
Vronsky 's valet come in to fetch a receipt for a telegram from Petersburg .
there be nothing odd in his receive a telegram , but , as if wish to hide something from she , he tell the man that the receipt be in his study and hastily turn to she , say :
' I shall certainly get everything ready to - morrow . '
' from whom be the telegram ? ' she ask , not listen to he .
' from Steve , ' he reply reluctantly .
' why do not you show it I ?
what secret can Steve have from I ? '
Vronsky call back the valet and tell he to bring the telegram .
' I do not wish to show it you , because Steve have a passion for telegraphing . what be the use of telegraphing when nothing have be settle ? '
' about the divorce ? '
' yes , but he wire : " could get no answer .
promise a decisive answer soon . "
but read it yourself . '
Anna take the telegram with tremble hand and see exactly what Vronsky have say , but at the end be add the word : ' little hope , but I will do everything possible and impossible . '
' I say yesterday that it be all the same to I when I get the divorce , or even whether I get it at all , ' she say , flush . ' there be no need at all to conceal it from I . '
and she think : ' in the same way he may hide and be hide from I his correspondence with woman . '
' oh , Yashvin want to come this morning with Voytov , ' say Vronsky . ' it seem he have win from Pevtsov all and even more than Pevtsov can pay – about sixty thousand rouble . '
' but why do you imagine , ' say she , irritated at his intimating to she so obviously , by this change of subject , that he see she be lose her temper , ' that this news interest I so much that it be necessary to conceal it ?
I say that I do not want to think about it , and I wish that you be as little interested in it as I be . '
' it interest I because I like definiteness , ' he reply .
' Definiteness depend not on form , but on love , ' she say , grow more and more irritated not at his word but at the tone of cool tranquillity with which he speak . ' why do you want it ? '
' oh God ! again about love ! ' he think with a wry face .
' do not you know why ? for your own sake and for that of the child we may have ! ' say he .
' we sha not have any . '
' that be a great pity , ' he say .
' you want it for the child , but you do not think of I , ' she pursue , quite forget or not hear that he say : ' for your own sake and for the child . '
the possibility of have child have long be a subject of dispute , and it irritate she .
she explain his desire to have child as show that he do not value her beauty .
' oh , I say for your sake !
Most of all for your sake , ' he repeat , his face contort as with pain , ' because I be convinced that a great deal of your irritability be due to our indefinite position . '
' yes , there it be ! now he have stop pretend , and all his cold hatred for I be apparent , ' she think , not listen to his word , but gaze with horror at the cold and cruel judge who look out of his eye provokingly .
' that be not the reason , ' she say , ' and I can not even understand how what you call my " irritability " can be cause by that ; I be entirely in your power .
what indefiniteness of position be there ?
quite the contrary ! '
' I be very sorry you do not wish to understand I , ' he interrupt , stubbornly intent on express his thought . ' the indefiniteness consist in your imagining that I be free . '
' you may be perfectly at rest on that matter ! ' she rejoin , and turn away she begin to drink her coffee .
she take her cup , stick out her little finger , and raise it to her mouth .
after a few sip she glance at he , and from the expression of his face clearly realize that her hand , her movement , and the sound make by her lip be repulsive to he .
' it be perfectly indifferent to I what your mother think and whom she wish to marry you to , ' she go on , put down her cup with a trembling hand .
' but we be not talk about that . '
' yes , about that very thing !
and believe I , a heartless woman , be she old or young , your mother or a stranger , do not interest I , and I do not want to have anything to do with she . '
' Anna , I beg you not to speak disrespectfully of my mother . '
' a woman whose heart have not divine wherein her son 's happiness and honour lie have no heart ! '
' I repeat my request that you should not speak disrespectfully of my mother , whom I respect ! ' say he , raise his voice and look sternly at she .
she do not reply .
look intently at his face and hand , she remember their reconciliation the day before and his passionate caress in all their detail .
' just such caress he have lavish , and want to lavish , on other woman , ' she think .
' you do not love your mother !
it be all word , word , word ! ' she say , look at he with hatred .
' if that be so , we must ... '
' decide ... and I have decide , ' she say and be about to go away , but just then Yashvin enter . Anna say ' good morning , ' and stop .
why , when a storm be rage within she and she feel that she be at a turning - point which might lead to terrible consequence – why she need , at that moment , dissemble before a stranger who soon or later would know all about it , she do not know : but immediately calm the storm within she , she sit down again and begin talk to the visitor .
' well ? how be your affair ? have the money be pay ? ' she ask Yashvin .
' oh , I do not know . I do not think I shall get it all , and on Wednesday I must go .
and you ? ' ask Yashvin , look at Vronsky with half - closed eye and evidently divine that there have be a quarrel .
' the day after to - morrow , I believe , ' reply Vronsky .
' but you have be mean to go for a long time past ? '
' yes , but now it be decide , ' say Anna , look straight into Vronsky 's eye with an expression that tell he he must not think of the possibility of a reconciliation .
' be it possible you be not sorry for that unfortunate Pevtsov ? ' she say , continue her conversation with Yashvin .
' I never ask myself , Anna Arkadyevna , whether I be sorry or not .
you see , my whole fortune be here , ' and he point to a side pocket , ' and now I be a rich man ; but I shall go to the club to - night and shall perhaps leave it a beggar .
you see , he who sit down to play against I , wish to leave I without a shirt , and I treat he the same !
so we struggle , and therein lie the pleasure ! '
' but suppose you be marry ? how would your wife feel about it ? ' ask Anna .
Yashvin laugh .
' I expect that be why I never marry , and never mean to . '
' how about helsingfor ? ' say Vronsky , join in the conversation , and he glance at Anna who have smile .
meet his look , her face suddenly assume a coldly severe expression , as if to say : ' it be not forget .
it be still the same ! '
' be it possible you be ever in love ? ' she ask Yashvin .
' oh heaven ! how many time !
but , you see , some man find it possible to sit down to card and yet to be able always to leave when the time come for an assignation !
now I can engage in love - making , but always so as not to be late for card in the evening .
that be how I manage . '
' no , I be not ask about that , but about the real thing . ' she be go to say Helsingfors , but do not want to repeat the word Vronsky have use .
Voytov , who be buy a horse from Vronsky , arrive , and Anna rise and leave the room .
before leave the house Vronsky come to her room .
she wish to pretend to be look for something on the table , but feel ashamed of the pretence , look straight into his face with a cold expression .
' what do you want ? ' she ask in French .
' Gambetta 's certificate ; I have sell he , ' he reply in a tone which say more clearly than word : ' I have no time for explanation , and they would lead to nothing . '
' I be not at all in the wrong toward she , ' he think . ' if she want to punish herself , tant pis pour elle ! '
[ so much the bad for she . ] but , as he be go out , he think she say something , and suddenly his heart ache with pity for she .
' what , Anna ? '
' nothing , ' she answer , in the same cold quiet manner .
' if it be nothing , then tant pis ! ' he think , again chilled . turn away , he go out .
as he be go out he catch sight in a look - glass of her pale face and tremble lip .
he even wish to stop and say a comforting word to she , but his leg carry he out of the room before he have think of anything to say .
all that day he spend away from home , and when he return late at night the maid tell he that Anna Arkadyevna have a headache and ask he not to go to her room .
never before have they be at enmity for a whole day .
this be the first time it have be so , and this be not even a quarrel .
it be an evident acknowledgment of complete estrangement .
how could he look at she as he have look when he come into the room for the certificate ?
look at she , see that her heart be tear by despair , and go out in silence with that calmly indifferent look ?
not only have he cool toward she , but he hate she because he love another woman – that be clear .
and recall all the cruel word he have utter , Anna invent other word which he evidently have wish to say and could have say to she , and she grow more and more exasperated .
' I do not hold you , ' he might have say . ' you may go where you please .
you probably do not wish to be divorce from your husband so that you could go back to he .
go back !
if you need money , I will give you some .
how many rouble do you want ? '
all the cruell word that a coarse man could say he , in her imagination , say to she , and she do not forgive he for they any more than if he have really say they .
' and be it not last night that he , an honourable and truthful man , swear he love I ?
have I not often before despair needlessly ? ' she say to herself immediately after .
all that day , except when she go to the Wilsons – which take she about two hour – Anna pass in doubt whether all be over or whether there be still hope of a reconciliation , and whether she ought to leave at once or to see he again .
she wait for he all day , and in the evening when she go to her room , having leave word for he that she have a headache , she think : ' if he come in spite of the maid 's message , it mean that he still love I .
if not , it mean that all be over , and then I will decide what I be to do ... !
at night she hear his carriage stop , hear he ring , hear his step , and his voice talk to the maid . he believe what he be tell , do not want to learn more and go to his room !
so all be over !
and death , as the sole means of revive love for herself in his heart , of punish he , and of gain the victory in that contest which an evil spirit in her heart be wage against he , present itself clearly and vividly to she .
now it be all the same whether they go to Vozdvizhensk or not , whether she get a divorce or not – it be all useless .
all she want be to punish he .
when she pour out her usual dose of opium and think that she need only drink the whole phial in order to die , it seem to she so easy and simple that she again begin think with pleasure of how he would suffer , repent , and love her memory when it be too late .
she lie in bed with open eye , look at the stucco cornice under the ceiling by the light of a single burn - down candle , and at the shadow of the screen which fall on it , and she vividly imagine what he would feel when she be no more , when she be for he nothing but a memory .
' how could I say those cruel word to she ? ' he would say . ' how could I leave the room without say anything ?
but now she be no more !
she have go from we for ever !
she be there ... '
suddenly the shadow of the screen begin to move and spread over the whole of the cornice , the whole ceiling . other shadow rush toward it from another side ; for an instant they rush together , but then again they spread with renew swiftness , flicker , and all be darkness .
' death ! ' she think .
and such terror come upon she that it be long before she could realize where she be and with tremble hand could find the match to light another candle in the place of the one that have burn down and go out .
' no – anything , only to live !
why , I love he !
and he love I ; all this have be , but will pass , ' she say , feel that tear of joy at this return to life be run down her cheek .
and , to escape from her fear , she hastily go to he in his study .
he be sleep in the study and be sound asleep .
she come up , and hold the light above he look at he long .
now , when he be asleep , she love he so that she could not restrain tear of tenderness while look at he ; but she know that if he be to wake he would look at she with a cold expression , conscious of his own integrity , and that before tell he of her love she must prove to he that he be to blame toward she .
without wake he she return to her room , and after a second dose of opium toward morning she fall into a heavy but troubled sleep , without ever cease to be conscious of herself .
in the morning a terrible nightmare , which have come to her several time even before her union with Vronsky , repeat itself and wake she .
an old man with a tangled beard be lean over some iron and do something , while mutter senseless word in French ; and as always in that nightmare ( this be what make it terrible ) she feel this peasant be pay no attention to she but be do something dreadful to she with the iron .
and she awake in a cold perspiration .
when she get up , the previous day appear in her memory as in a fog .
there have be a quarrel .
it be what have happen several time before .
' I say I have a headache , and he do not come to see I .
to - morrow we shall leave . I must see he and get ready for the move , ' she think .
and hear that he be in the study she go to he .
as she pass through the drawing - room she hear a vehicle stop at the front door , and , look out of the window , she see a young girl in a lilac hat lean out of the carriage window and give an order to the footman who be ring at the front door .
after some talk in the hall , some one come upstairs and she hear Vronsky 's step outside the drawing - room .
he be go quickly downstairs .
again Anna go to the window .
there he be on the step , without a hat , go down to the carriage .
the young girl in the lilac hat hand he a parcel .
Vronsky say something to she and smile .
the carriage roll away ; he run rapidly upstairs again .
the fog that have obscure everything within she be suddenly dissipate .
yesterday 's feeling wring her ache heart with fresh pain .
she could not now understand how she could have humiliate herself so as to remain a whole day with he in his house .
she go to his study to announce to he her decision .
' it be the Princess Sorokina with her daughter who come to bring I the money and document from maman .
I could not get they yesterday .
how be your head – well ? ' he say quietly , not wish to see or understand the gloomy and solemn look on her face .
she stand silent in the middle of the room , look at he intently .
he glance at she , frown for an instant , and continue to read a letter .
she turn , and slowly move from the room .
he could still call she back , but she reach the door and he remain silent , and only the rustle of the paper as he turn a page be hear .
' oh , by the way – ' he say when she be already in the doorway – ' we be definitely go to - morrow , be not we ? '
' you , but not I , ' she say , turn round toward he .
' Anna , it be impossible to live like this ... '
' you , but not I , ' she repeat .
' this be become intolerable ! '
' you ... you will repent of this ! ' she say , and leave he .
alarm by the despairing look with which she have say these word , he jump up , intend to run after she , but , recollect himself , he sit down again , tightly clench his tooth and frowning .
this – as it seem to he – unbecoming and indefinite threat irritate he .
' I have try everything , ' he think , ' the only thing leave be to pay no attention , ' and he begin get ready to drive to town , and to go again to his mother 's to obtain her signature to a power of attorney .
she hear the sound of his step in the study and dining - room .
he pause at the drawing - room door .
but he do not return to she ; he only give an order that they should let Voytov have the horse in his absence .
then she hear the carriage drive up and the door open , and he go out again .
but now he re - enter the hall , and some one run upstairs .
it be his valet , who have come for the glove his master have forget .
she go back to the window and see he take the glove without look , and , having touch the coachman 's back with his hand , say something to he .
then , without turn to look up at the window , he sit down in the carriage in his usual posture , cross one leg over the other , and , put on a glove , disappear round the comer .
' GONE !
be it finished ? ' say Anna to herself as she stand by the window ; and in answer to that question , the impression leave by the darkness when her candle go out and by the terrible dream , merge into one , fill her heart with icy horror .
' no , it be impossible ! ' she exclaim and , cross the room , she ring loudly .
she be so terrified at be alone that she do not wait for the servant but go out to meet he .
' find out where the Count have go , ' she say .
the man reply that the Count have go to the stable .
' the Count tell I to let you know that , in case you should wish to go out , the carriage will return very soon . '
' very well .
wait a moment .
I will just write a note .
send Michael with it to the stable at once .
quickly ! '
she sit down and write :
' I be to blame .
come home . we must talk it over .
for God 's sake come ; I be frightened . '
she stick it down and give it to the man .
then , afraid to remain alone now , she follow he out of the room and go to the nursery .
' how be this ? that be not it – this be not he !
where be his blue eye and his sweet timid smile ? ' be her first thought on see her plump , rosy little girl with curly black hair , instead of Serezha , whom , in the disorder of her mind , she have expect to find in the nursery .
the little girl , sit at the table , persistently and firmly hammer on it with the stopper of a bottle , gaze blankly at her mother with her two black - currant of eye .
having , in answer to the question of the english nurse , say that she be quite well and that they be go to the country next day , Anna sit down beside the child and begin twirl the stopper round in front of she .
but the child 's loud ring laughter and a movement of her eyebrow remind Anna so vividly of Vronsky , that , repress her sobs , she rise hurriedly and leave the room .
' be it really all over ?
no , it can not be , ' she think . ' he will come back .
but how will he explain to I that smile , and his animation after he have speak to she ?
but even if he do not explain it , I will believe he all the same .
if I do not believe he , there be only one way leave for I ... and I do not want that . '
she look at the clock .
twelve minute have pass .
' now he have receive my note and be on his way back .
it will not be long ; another ten minute ...
but supposing he do not come ?
no , that be impossible !
he must not find I with red eye .
I will go and wash they .
oh ! and do I brush my hair or not ? ' she ask herself ; but could not remember .
she feel her head with her hand .
' yes , my hair be do , but I do not in the least remember when . '
she do not even trust her hand , and go up to the mirror to see whether her hair really be do or not .
it be , but she could not remember do it .
' who be that ? ' she think , gaze in the mirror at the feverish , frightened face with the strangely brilliant eye look at she .
' yes that be I ! ' she suddenly realize , and look at her whole figure she suddenly feel his kiss , shudder , and move her shoulder .
then she raise her hand to her lip and kiss it .
' what be it ? be I go mad ? ' and she go to her bedroom , where Annushka be tidy up .
' Annushka ! ' she say , stop before the maid and look at she , without know what she would say to she .
' you wish to go to see the Princess Oblonskaya , ' say the maid , apparently understand she .
' Darya Alexandrovna ?
yes , I will go . '
' a quarter of an hour there , a quarter of an hour back ; he be already on the way , he will be here in a minute . ' she look at her watch .
' but how could he go away leave I in this condition ?
how can he go on live , without having make it up with I ? '
she go to the window and look out into the street .
he might have get back by this time ; but her calculation might be incorrect , and again she begin try to remember when he have leave and reckon the minute .
just as she be go to compare her watch with the large clock some one drive up .
glance out of the window she see his calèche .
but no one come upstairs and she hear voice below .
her messenger have return in the carriage .
she go down to he .
' I do not find the Count .
he have go to the Nizhny railway station , ' he say .
' what do you want ?
what be this ? ' she ask the rosy , jolly - look Michael , as he hand she back her note .
' oh , of course ! he do not receive it , ' she remember .
' go with this note to the Countess Vronskaya 's country house ; do you know it ?
and bring back an answer at once , ' she tell the man ..
' but what shall I do myself ? ' she think . ' yes I will go to Dolly 's , of course , or else I shall go out of my mind !
and I can telegraph as well ! '
and she write out a telegram .
' I must speak to you , come at once . '
having send off the telegram , she go to dress .
ready dress and with her bonnet on , she again look at Annushka 's placid and now still rounder face .
evident compassion show plainly in those kindly little grey eye .
' Annushka , my dear ! what be I to do ? ' mutter Anna sobbing , as she sink helplessly into an arm - chair .
' why take it so to heart , Anna Arkadyevna ?
such thing will happen .
go out and get it off your mind , ' advise the maid .
' yes , I will go , ' say Anna , recover and rouse herself ; ' and if a telegram come during my absence , send it to Darya Alexandrovna 's ...
no , I will come back myself . '
' but I must not think , I must do something , go away , get out of this house at any rate , ' she say to herself , listen with horror to the terrible beating of her heart , and she hurriedly go out and get into the calèche .
' where to , ma'am ? ' ask Peter , before get onto the box .
' to the Oblonskys ' on the Znamenka . '
the weather be BRIGHT .
all the morning there have be fine drizzling rain , but it have now just clear up .
the iron roof , the pavement flag - stone , the cobble of the road , the wheel , the leather , brass , and tin of the carriage – all shine brightly in the May sunshine .
it be three o'clock ; the busy time in the street .
sit in the corner of the comfortable calèche , which rock gently on its elastic spring to the rapid trot of the pair of grey , Anna – amid the incessant rattle of wheel and the rapidly change impression in the open air – again go over the event of the last day see her position quite differently from what it have seem at home .
now the idea of death no long seem so terrible and clear , and death itself no long seem inevitable .
she reproach herself now with the humiliation to which she have descend .
' I entreat he to forgive I .
I have surrender to he .
I have confess that I be to blame .
can I not live without he ? '
she begin read the signboard . '
" Office and Stores ...
dental surgeon ... "
yes , I will tell Dolly everything .
she be not fond of Vronsky .
it will be humiliating and painful , but I will tell she everything .
she be fond of I and I will follow her advice .
I will not submit to he ; I will not let he educate I ...
" Filippov , Bakery ... "
it be say that they send dough to Petersburg .
the Moscow water be so good .
oh , and the well in Mytishchi , and the pancake ! ' ...
and she remember how , long , long ago , when she be only seventeen , she visit the Troitsa Monastery with her aunt .
' we drive with horse , for there be then no railway .
can it really have be I , that girl with the red hand ?
how many thing that then seem to I excellent and unattainable have since become insignificant , and thing that then exist be now for ever unattainable !
should I then have believe that I should descend to such humiliation ?
how proud and satisfied he will be to get my note !
but I will show he ...
how nasty that paint smell !
why be they always paint and building ?
" Dressmaking and Millinery,"- ' she read .
a man bow to she .
it be Annushka 's husband .
' our parasite , ' she remember how Vronsky have say the word . ' our ?
why ' our ' ? it be dreadful that one can not tear out the past by the root .
we can not tear it out but we can hide the memory of it .
and I will hide it ! '
at this point she recollect her past with Karenin and how she have efface the memory of he .
' dolly will think I be leave a second husband and that I be therefore certainly unjustifiable .
do I want to be justify ?
I can not ! ' she say to herself , and wish to cry .
but she immediately begin to wonder what those two young girl could be smile at .
' love , probably !
they do not know how far from joyous it be , how low ...
the boulevard and child .
three boy run about play at horse .
Serezha !
and I shall lose everything and sha not get he back .
yes , I shall lose everything if he do not return .
he may have miss the train and be back already . want to humiliate yourself again ! ' she say to herself .
' no ! I shall go to Dolly 's , and will tell she frankly : " I be unhappy , I deserve it ; I be guilty , but all the same I be unhappy .
help I ! " ... these horse , this carriage , how horrid it be of I to be in this carriage – they be all his , but I shall not see they any more . '
' be anyone here ? ' she ask in the ante - room .
' Catherine Alexandrovna Levina , ' answer the footman .
that same Kitty with whom Vronsky be in love , ' think Anna . ' she whom he remember affectionately .
he regrets not having marry she .
and of I he think with hate and regret having join himself to I ! '
when Anna arrive the two sister be consult about feed the baby .
Dolly go out alone to meet the visitor who at that moment have come to interrupt their talk .
' so you have not leave yet ?
I be myself come to see you , ' say Dolly . ' I have a letter from Steve to - day . '
' we also have a telegram from he , ' reply Anna , look round for Kitty .
' he write that he can not understand what Alexis Alexandrovich really want , but that he will not leave without get an answer . '
' I think you have a visitor .
may I see the letter ? '
' yes , Kitty , ' answer Dolly with embarrassment . ' she be in the nursery .
she have be very ill . '
' I hear about it .
' I will fetch it at once .
but he have not refuse ; on the contrary , Steve be hopeful , ' add Dolly , pause at the door .
' I have no hope , and do not even desire it , ' say Anna .
' what do it mean ? Kitty consider it humiliating to meet I ! ' think Anna when she be leave alone .
' maybe she be right . but it be not for she , who be in love with Vronsky – it be not for she to let I feel it , even if it be true !
I know that no respectable woman can receive I in my position .
I know that from the first moment I sacrifice everything for he .
and this be the reward !
oh , how I hate he !
and why have I come here ?
it be still bad for I ; it be hard than ever ! ' she hear the voice of the sister confer together in the next room .
' and what be I go to tell Dolly now ? Console Kitty by let she see that I be unhappy and let she patronize I ?
no , and even Dolly would not understand .
it be no use appeal to she .
but it would be interesting to see Kitty and show she how I despise everybody and everything : how indifferent everything be to I . '
Dolly come back with the letter .
Anna read and silently return it .
' I know it all , ' she say , ' and it do not interest I in the least . '
' but why ?
I , on the contrary , be hopeful , ' say Dolly , look at Anna with curiosity .
she have never see she in such a strange and irritable mood . ' when be you leave ? ' she ask .
Anna , screw up her eye , gaze straight before she without answer .
' be Kitty hide from I then ? ' she ask , look toward the door and blushing .
' oh , what nonsense !
she be nurse her baby and have difficulty with it , and I be advise she ...
she be very pleased .
she will come directly , ' dolly say awkwardly , not know how to tell an untruth . ' oh , here she be ! '
when she hear that Anna have come Kitty do not wish to appear ; but Dolly persuade she .
having muster up her courage , Kitty come in and , blushing , go up to Anna and hold out her hand .
' I be very pleased – ' she begin in a tremble voice .
Kitty be confuse by the struggle within she between hostility toward this bad woman and a desire to be tolerant to she ; but as soon as she see Anna 's lovely and attractive face , all the hostility vanish at once .
' I should not have be surprised if you have not want to see I .
I have got use to everything .
you have be ill ?
yes , you be change ! ' say Anna .
Kitty feel that Anna look at she with animosity .
she attribute that animosity to the awkward position Anna , who have formerly patronize she , now feel herself to be in , and she be sorry for she .
they talk about Kitty 's illness , about the baby , and about Steve ; but evidently nothing interested Anna .
' I come to say good - bye to you , ' she say , rise .
' when be you leave ? '
but Anna again , without reply , turn to Kitty .
' yes , I be very glad to have see you , ' she say with a smile . ' I have hear so much about you from everybody , and even from your husband .
he call on I and I like he very much , ' she add , with obvious ill intent . ' where be he ? '
' he have go to the country , ' answer Kitty , blushing .
' remember I to he ; be sure you do ! '
' I will be sure to , ' repeat Kitty naively , look compassionately into her eye .
' well then , good - bye , Dolly ! ' and kiss Dolly and press Kitty 's hand , Anna hurry away .
' she be still the same and as attractive as ever .
Charming ! ' say Kitty when she be once more alone with her sister . ' but there be something pathetic about she , terribly pathetic ! '
' yes , but to - day there be something peculiar about she , ' say Dolly . ' when I be see she out , there in the ante - room , I think she be go to cry . '
ANNA reseat herself in the CALÈCHE in a state of mind even worse than when she leave home .
to her former torment be now add a feeling of be affront and repudiate , of which she have be clearly sensible during the meeting with Kitty .
' where to , ma'am ?
home ? ' ask Peter .
' yes , home , ' she say , now not even think of where she be go .
' how they look at I , as at something dreadful , incomprehensible , and strange ! ...
what can he be tell that other man so warmly ? ' she think , glance at two pedestrian . ' how be it possible to tell another what one feel ?
I mean to tell Dolly , but it be a good thing I do not .
how glad she would have be at my misfortune !
she would have conceal it ; but her chief feeling would have be joy that I be punish for the pleasure she have envy I .
Kitty would have be still more pleased .
how well I can read she !
she know I be more than usually amiable to her husband .
she be jealous of I and hate I , and she also despise I .
in her eye I be an immoral woman .
if I be immoral I could make her husband fall in love with I ... if I want to .
and I do want to .
there be some one satisfied with himself ? ' she think , see a fat ruddy man who be drive past in the opposite direction , and who , take she for an acquaintance , lift his shiny hat above his bald and shiny head , but then discover that he be mistaken : ' he think he know I .
but he know I as little as do anyone else in the world .
I do not even know myself ! "
I know my appetite , " as the French say .
those boy want some of that dirty ice - cream ; they know that for a certainty , ' she think , as she see two boy stop an ice - cream vendor , who lift down a tub from his head and wipe his perspiring face with the end of the cloth . ' we all want something sweet and tasty ; if we can get no bon - bon , then dirty ice - cream !
and Kitty be just the same : if not Vronsky , then Levin .
and she envy and hate I .
and we all hate one another : Kitty I , and I Kitty !
now that be true .
" Tyutkin , Coiffeur . " ...
Je me fais coiffer par Tyutkin . ' ...
[ Hairdresser .
I have my hair dress by Tyutkin .
( an absurd name . ) ]
I shall tell he that when he come back , ' she think and smile .
but just then she recollect that now she have no one to tell anything funny to . ' besides , there be nothing amusing or merry .
everything be nasty .
they be ring for vesper , and how carefully that tradesman be cross himself , as if he be afraid of drop something !
what be those church , that ring , and these lie for ?
only to conceal the fact that we all hate each other , like those cabman who be so angrily swear at one another .
Yashvin say : " he want to leave I without a shirt , and I he . "
now that be true ! '
with these thought , which occupy she so that she even forget to think of her trouble , she arrive at the porch of their house .
only when she see the hall - porter come out to meet she do she remember that she have send the note and the telegram .
' be there an answer ? ' she ask .
' I will look , ' he reply , and glance at his desk he take up and hand she the thin square envelope of a telegram .
' I can not return before ten – Vronsky , ' she read .
' and the man have not yet return ? '
' no , ma'am , ' answer the hall - porter .
' well , in that case I know what I must do , ' say she to herself , and conscious of a vague sense of wrath and a desire for vengeance rise within she , she run upstairs . ' I shall go to he myself .
before quit he for ever , I will tell he everything .
I never hate anyone as I hate that man ! ' think she .
see his hat on the hat - rail , she shudder with aversion .
she do not realize that his telegram be in answer to hers and that he have not yet receive her note .
she imagine he now calmly converse with his mother and the Princess Sorokina , and rejoice at her suffering .
' yes , I must go at once , ' she think , not yet sure where to go to .
she wish to get away as soon as possible from the feeling she experience in that terrible house .
the servant , the wall , the thing in the house , all repel and anger she , and oppress she like a weight .
' yes , I must go to the railway station , and if I do not find he , I must go there and expose he . '
she look at the time - table publish in the daily paper .
the train leave at 8.2 p.m.
' I shall have time . '
she give the order to harness another pair of horse , and busy herself pack her handbag with thing necessary for a few day .
she know she would not return .
she vaguely resolve on one of the plan that pass through her mind . after what would occur at the railway station or at the Countess 's estate she would go on by the Nizhny railway to the first town and remain there .
dinner be serve . she go to the table , smelt the bread and cheese and as the smell of everything eatable revolt she , she send for the carriage and go out .
the house already throw a shadow right across the street ; the evening be bright , and the sun still warm .
Annushka , who come out with Anna 's thing , and Peter , who put they into the carriage , and the coachman , who be evidently dissatisfied , be all objectionable to she and irritate she by their word and movement .
' I sha not need you , Peter . '
' but how about your ticket ? '
' well , as you like , I do not care , ' she reply with annoyance .
Peter jump up on the box , and with his arm akimbo tell the coachman to drive to the station .
' there , AGAIN it be that girl !
again I understand it all , ' Anna say to herself as soon as the carriage start and , rock slightly , rattle over the stone ; and again different impression succeed one another in her brain .
' what be the last thing I think of that be so good ? ' she try to remember it .
' " Tyutkin , Coiffeur " ? no , not that .
oh yes ! what Yashvin say : the struggle for existence and hatred be the only thing that unite people .
no , you be go in vain , ' she mentally address a company of people in a calèche with four horse , who be evidently go out of town on a spree . ' and the dog you have with you will not help you !
you can not escape from yourself . '
glance in the direction in which Peter be look she see a workman , nearly dead - drunk , with his head sway about , who be be lead off somewhere by a policeman .
' that one be more likely to , ' she think . ' Count Vronsky and I have also be unable to find that pleasure from which we expect so much . '
and now for the first time Anna turn the bright light in which she see everything upon her relation with he , about which she have always avoid thinking .
' what do he look for in I ?
not so much love as the satisfaction of his vanity . '
she remember his word , the expression of his face , suggestive of a faithful setter 's , in the early day of their union .
everything now confirm her view .
' yes , there be in he the triumph of successful vanity .
of course there be love too ; but the great part be pride in his success .
he boast of I .
now that be past .
there be nothing to be proud of .
not to be proud but to be ashamed !
he have take from I all he could , and now he do not need I .
he be weary of I and be try not to act dishonourably toward I .
yesterday he betray himself – he want the divorce and a marriage in order to burn his boat .
he love I , but how ?
the zest be go ! ' she say to herself in English .
' that man want to astonish everybody and be very well satisfied with himself , ' she think , glance at a rosy - face shop - assistant who be ride a hire horse . ' no , I have no long the right flavour for he .
if I go away he will , at the bottom of his heart , be pleased . '
that be not a surmise . she see it clearly in the pierce light which now reveal to she the meaning of life and of human relation .
' my love grow more and more passionate and egotistic , and his dwindle and dwindle , and that be why we be separate , ' she go on thinking . ' and there be no remedy .
for I everything centre in he , and I demand that he should give himself up to I more and more completely .
but he want more and more to get away from I .
before we be unite we really draw together ; but now we be irresistibly drift apart ; and it can not be alter .
he tell I I be unreasonably jealous , and I have tell myself that I be unreasonably jealous ; but it be not true .
I be not jealous , but dissatisfied . but ... '
she open her mouth and change her place in the carriage from agitation produce by a sudden thought . ' if I could be anything but his mistress , passionately love nothing but his caress – but I can not and do not want to be anything else .
and this desire awaken disgust in he , and that arouse anger in I , and it can not be otherwise .
do not I know that he would not deceive I , that he have no design on that Sorokina , that he be not in love with Kitty , and will not be unfaithful to I ?
I know all that , but that do not make it easy for I .
if , without love I , he be kind and tender to I from a sense of duty , but what I desire be lack – that would be a thousand time bad than anger !
it would be hell !
and that be just how it be .
he have long cease to love I .
and where love cease , there hate begin ...
I do not know these street at all .
here be a hill , and house and house ...
and in the house be people , and more people ...
there be no end to they , and they all hate one another .
well , suppose I picture to myself what I want in order to be happy ?
well , I get divorce , and Alexis Alexandrovich give I Serezha , and I marry Vronsky ! '
remember Karenin , she picture he to herself with extraordinary vividness , as if he stand before she , with his mild , dull , lifeless eye , the blue vein of his white hand , his intonation , his crack finger , and remember the feeling that have once exist between they and which have also be call love , she shudder with revulsion .
' well , I get divorce and become Vronsky 's wife !
what then ? will Kitty cease look at I as she do this afternoon ?
no .
will Serezha stop ask and wonder about my two husband ?
and between Vronsky and myself what new feeling can I invent ?
be any kind – not of happiness even , but of absence of torture – possible ? no !
no ! ' she now answer herself without the least hesitation . ' it be impossible !
life be sunder we , and I be the cause of his unhappiness and he of mine , and neither he nor I can be make different .
every effort have be make , but the screw have give way ...
a beggar woman with a baby .
she think I pity she .
be we not all flung into the world only to hate each other , and therefore to torment ourselves and other ?
there go schoolboy – they be laugh .
Serezha ? ' she remember . ' I think I love he , too , and be touch at my own tenderness for he .
yet I live without he and exchange his love for another 's , and do not complain of the change as long as the other love satisfy I . '
and she think with disgust of what she call ' the other love . '
the clearness with which she now see her own and every one else 's life please she .
' it be the same with I , and Peter and Theodore the coachman , and with that tradesman , and with all the people that live away there by the Volga where those advertisement invite one to go , and everywhere and always , ' she think as she drive up to the low building of the Nizhny station , where the porter run out to meet she .
' shall I take a ticket to Obiralovka ? ' ask Peter .
she have quite forget where and why she be go , and only understand the question by a great effort .
' yes , ' she say , give he her purse ; and hang her little red handbag on her arm , she descend from the carriage .
as she move among the crowd toward the first - class waiting - room she gradually recall all the detail of her position and the resolution between which she vacillate .
and again hope and despair , alternately chafe the old sore , lacerate the wound of her torture and violently flutter heart . sit on the star - shape couch , wait for her train , she look with repulsion at those who pass in and out .
they be all objectionable to she . she think now of how she would reach the station and would write he a note , and of what she would write , and of how he be now ( without understand her suffering ) complain of his position to his mother , and of how she would enter the room and what she would say to he .
and then she think how happy life might still be , and how tormentingly she love and hate he and how dreadfully her heart be beat .
some young man , ugly and bold - faced , pass by hurriedly and yet attentive to the impression they create . Peter , in his livery and gaiter , with his dull animal face , also cross the room , and come to she to see she into the train .
two noisy man become quiet as she pass they on the platform , and one of they whisper to the other something about she : something nasty , of course .
she mount the high step of the railway carriage and seat herself in an empty compartment on the dirty – though once white – cover of the spring seat .
Peter with a stupid smile raise his gold - braid hat to take leave of she ; an insolent guard slam the door to and draw the latch .
a misshapen lady with a bustle ( Anna mentally strip that woman and be horrify at her deformity ) and a girl , laugh affectedly , run past outside .
' Catherine Andreevna have everything , ma tante ! ' cry the little girl .
' quite a child , and yet already affect and pull face , ' think Anna .
in order not to see anyone , she rise quickly and sit down by the opposite window of the empty compartment .
a grimy , misshaped peasant in a cap from under which his tousle hair stick out , pass that window , stoop over the carriage wheel .
' there be something familiar about that misshape peasant , ' she think .
and remember her dream she go to the opposite door , tremble with fright .
the guard open it to let in a husband and wife .
' do you wish to get out ? '
Anna do not answer .
neither the guard nor those enter notice the horror on her face beneath the veil .
she go back to her corner and sit down .
the couple sit down opposite she , attentively but stealthily examine her dress .
both the husband and the wife seem to Anna disgusting .
the husband ask if she would allow he to smoke ; evidently not because he want to , but to enter into conversation with she .
having receive her permission , he begin speak to his wife in French , about thing he want to speak about still less than he want to smoke .
they talk nonsense insincerely , only in order that she should hear they .
Anna see distinctly how weary they be of one another and how they hate each other .
and it be impossible not to hate such ugly wretch .
she hear the second bell ring , and then a moving of luggage , noise , shouting and laughter .
it be so clear to Anna that no one have any cause for joy that this laughter jarred on she painfully , and she wish to stop her ear , not to hear it .
at last the third bell ring , the engine whistle and creak , the coupling chain give a jerk , and the husband cross himself .
' it would be interesting to ask he what he mean by it , ' think Anna , regard he spitefully .
she look out of the window , past the lady , at the people on the platform who have be see the train off , and who appear to be glide backward .
with rhythmic jerk over the joint of the rail , the carriage in which Anna sit rattle past the platform and a brick wall , past the signal and some other carriage ; the sound of wheel slightly ring against the rail become more rhythmical and smooth ; the bright evening sunshine shine through the window , and a breeze move the blind .
Anna forget her fellow - traveller ; softly rock by the motion of the carriage and inhale the fresh air , she again begin to think :
' where do I leave off ?
at the point that I can not imagine a situation in which life would not be a torment ; that we all have be create in order to suffer , and that we all know this and all try to invent mean of deceive ourselves .
but when you see the truth , what be you to do ? '
' reason have be give to man to enable he to escape from his trouble , ' say the lady , in French , evidently pleased with her phrase and mince with her tongue .
these word seem to answer Anna 's thought .
' to escape from his trouble , ' Anna mentally repeat .
and glance at the red - cheeked husband and his thin wife , she see that the sickly wife consider herself misunderstood , and that the husband deceive she and encourage she in her opinion of herself .
direct her searchlight upon they , Anna think she see their story and all the hidden recess of their soul .
but there be nothing of interest there , and she continue her reflection .
' yes , it trouble I very much , and reason be give we to enable we to escape ; therefore I must escape !
why not put out the candle , if there be nothing more to look at ? if everything be repulsive to look at ?
but how ?
why do that guard run past hold the handrail ? why be those young man in the next carriage shout ?
why be they talk and laugh ?
it be all untrue , all lie , all deception , all evil ! ....
when the train stop at the station , Anna get out with the crowd of passenger , and shun they as if they be leper , stop on the platform try to remember why she have come there and what she have intend to do .
everything that have appear possible before be now so difficult to grasp , especially in this noisy crowd of odious people who would not leave she in peace .
porter rush up , offer their service . young man pass along the platform , clatter their heel on the plank , talk loudly and gaze at she ; and people she meet try to get out of her way on the wrong side .
recollect that she mean to go on if there be no reply , she stop a porter and ask he whether there be not a coachman bring a note from Count Vronsky there .
' Count Vronsky ?
some one from there be here just now , to meet the Princess Sorokina and her daughter .
what be the coachman like ? '
while she be talk to the porter , Michael the coachman , rosy and cheerful , come up in his smart blue coat with a watch - chain , evidently proud of having carry out his errand so well , and hand she a note .
she open it , and her heart sink even before she read it .
' very sorry the note do not catch I .
I shall be back at ten , ' Vronsky write in a careless hand .
' yes , I expect it ! ' she say to herself with a malicious smile .
' all right , you may go home , ' she say softly to Michael .
she speak softly , because the rapid beating of her heart impede her breathing .
' no , I will not let you torture I , ' she think , address her threat not to he nor to herself but to that which force she to suffer , and she walk along the platform , past the station building .
two maid - servant , stroll about on the platform , turn their head to look at she , and make some audible remark about her dress . ' it be real , ' they say of the lace she be wear .
the young man do not leave she in peace .
gaze into her face and laugh and shout unnaturally they again pass by .
the stationmaster ask she in pass whether she be go on .
a boy sell kvas fix his eye on she .
' o God ! where be I to go ? ' she think , walk far and far along the platform .
she stop at the end of it .
some lady and child , who have come to meet a spectacled gentleman and be laugh and talk noisily , become silent and gaze at she as she pass they .
she walk fast away from they to the very end of the platform .
a good train be approach .
the platform shake , and it seem to she as if she be again in the tram .
suddenly remember the man who have be run over the day she first meet Vronsky , she realize what she have to do .
quickly and lightly descend the step that lead from the water - tank to the rail , she stop close to the pass tram .
she look at the bottom of the truck , at the bolt and chain and large iron wheel of the slowly - move front truck , and try to estimate the middle point between the front and back wheel , and the moment when that point would be opposite she .
' there ! ' she say to herself , look at the shadow of the truck on the mingle sand and coal dust which cover the sleeper . ' there , into the very middle , and I shall punish he and escape from everybody and from myself ! '
she want to fall half - way between the wheel of the front truck , which be draw level with she , but the little red handbag which she begin to take off her arm delay she , and then it be too late . the middle have pass she .
she be oblige to wait for the next truck .
a feeling seize she like that she have experience when prepare to enter the water in bathing , and she cross herself .
the familiar gesture of make the sign of the cross call up a whole series of girlish and childish memory , and suddenly the darkness , that obscure everything from she , break , and life show itself to she for an instant with all its bright past joy .
but she do not take her eye off the wheel of the approach second truck , and at the very moment when the midway point between the wheel draw level , she throw away her red bag , and draw her head down between her shoulder throw herself forward on her hand under the truck , and with a light movement as if prepare to rise again immediately drop on her knee .
and at the same moment she be horror - strike at what she be do .
' where be I ?
what be I do ?
why ? '
she wish to rise , to throw herself back , but something huge and relentless strike she on the head and drag she down .
' God forgive I everything ! ' she say , feel the impossibility of struggle ...
a little peasant mutter something be work at the rail .
the candle , by the light of which she have be read that book fill with anxiety , deception , grief , and evil , flare up with a bright light , light up for she all that have before be dark , crackle , begin to flicker , and go out for ever .
PART VIII
NEARLY two month have gone by .
it be already the middle of the hot summer , but Sergius Ivanich Koznyshev be only now prepare to leave Moscow .
in Koznyshev 's life during that time event of importance for he have take place .
his book , the result of six year ' labour , entitle , an attempt to review the Foundations and Forms of Government of Europe and Russia , have be finish a year ago .
some part of it and the introduction have appear in periodical , and other part have be read by Koznyshev to people of his set , so that the idea of the work could not be very novel to the public ; but all the same Koznyshev expect that the publication of the book would create a serious impression on Society , and if not a revolution in science , at any rate a strong agitation in the scientific world .
the book have be issue last year after careful revision , and have be send out to the bookseller .
not ask anyone about it , reluctantly and with feign indifference reply to his friend ' inquiry as to how it be go , and not even ask the bookseller how it be sell , Koznyshev watch keenly and with strained attention for the first impression his book would produce in Society and in literature .
but a week pass , and another , and a third , and no impression be noticeable in Society . his friend , the specialist and the scholar , sometimes – from politeness – mention it ; his other acquaintance , not interested in learn work , do not mention it to he at all .
in Society , now particularly occupy with something else , absolute indifference reign .
in the periodical also , for a whole month , there have not be any mention of the book .
Koznyshev have calculate exactly the time necessary for a review to be write ; but a month pass , and another , and the silence continue .
only in the Northern Beetle , in a facetious feuilleton about the singer Drabanti who have lose his voice , be a few contemptuous remark interpolate about Koznyshev 's book , indicate that it have long ago be condemn by everybody and consign to general ridicule .
at last , in the third month , a criticism appear in a serious magazine .
Koznyshev know the author of the article .
he have meet he once at Golubkov 's .
the author be a very young and sickly journalist ; very bold as a writer , but extremely uneducated , and shy in personal intercourse .
despite his entire contempt for this man , Koznyshev begin read the review most respectfully .
the article be horrible .
the critic have evidently understand the book in an impossible way .
but he have so adroitly select his quotation that to those who have not read the book ( and evidently hardly anyone have read it ) it would appear quite clear that the whole book be nothing but a collection of high - sound word , not even use appropriately ( as be indicate by note of interrogation ) , and that its author be a totally ignorant man .
all this be put with so much wit that Koznyshev himself would not have be averse to wield it ; and that be what be dreadful .
notwithstanding the thorough conscientiousness with which Koznyshev verify the correctness of the critic 's argument , he do not dwell for a moment on the deficiency and mistake which be ridicule , but at once involuntarily begin to recall his meeting and conversation with the author of the review , down to the minutest detail .
' do not I offend he in some way ? ' he ask himself .
and remember how when he meet he he have correct the young man 's use of a word that betray ignorance Koznyshev find an explanation of the article .
that review be follow by dead silence both in print and in conversation concern the book , and Koznyshev see that his six year ' work , carry out with so much devotion and labour , be entirely throw away .
his position be the more painful because , having finish his book , he no long have any literary work such as have previously occupy the great part of his time .
he be intelligent , well - educate , healthy and active , but do not know how to employ his energy .
discussion in drawing - room , at meeting , at assembly , in committee , and everywhere where one could speak , take up part of his time ; but , as an habitual town - dweller , he do not allow himself to be entirely absorb by discussion , as his inexperienced brother do when he be in Moscow ; so he have much superfluous leisure and mental energy .
fortunately for he , at this most trying time , after the failure of his book , in place of the question of Dissent , our american friend , the Samara Famine , the Exhibitions , and Spiritualism , the slavonic question – which have previously only smoulder in Society – come to the front , and Koznyshev , who have previously be one of the promoter of that cause , devote himself to it entirely .
among the people to whom he belong , nothing be write or talk about at that time except the serbian war .
everything that the idle crowd usually do to kill time , it now do for the benefit of the Slavs : ball , concert , dinner , speech , lady ' dress , beer , restaurant – all bear witness to our sympathy with the Slavs .
with much that be speak and write on the subject Koznyshev do not agree in detail .
he see that the slav question have become one of those fashionable diversion which , ever succeed one another , serve to occupy society ; he see that too many people take up the question from interested motive .
he admit that the paper publish much that be unnecessary and exaggerate with the sole aim of draw attention to themselves , each outcry the other .
he see that amid this general elation in Society those who be unsuccessful or discontent leapt to the front and shout louder than anyone else : commander - in - chief without army , minister without portfolio , journalist without paper , and party leader without follower .
he see there be much that be frivolous and ridiculous ; but he also see and admit the unquestionable and ever - grow enthusiasm which be unite all class of society , and with which one could not help sympathize .
the massacre of our co - religionist and brother Slavs evoke sympathy for the sufferer and indignation against their oppressor .
and the heroism of the Serbs and Montenegrins , fight for a great cause , arouse in the whole nation a desire to help their brother not only with word but by deed .
also there be an accompanying fact that please Koznyshev . it be the manifestation of public opinion .
the nation have definitely express its wish .
as Koznyshev put it , ' the soul of the nation have become articulate . '
the more he go into this question , the clear it seem to he that it be a matter which would attain enormous proportion and become epoch - making .
he devote himself completely to the service of that great movement and forget to think about his book .
his whole time be now so take up that he be unable to answer all the letter and demand address to he .
after work all through the spring and part of the summer , it be not till July that he prepare to go to his brother 's in the country .
he go , both to enjoy a fortnight 's rest , and – in that holy of holy of the people , the very heart of the country – to enjoy the sight of that uplift of the national spirit , of which he and all the town - dweller be fully convinced .
Katavasov , who have promise Levin to visit he , and have long be mean to keep that promise , accompany Koznyshev .
HARDLY have KOZNYSHEV and KATAVASOV reach the station , get out of their carriage , and look for the footman who have follow with their luggage , before some Volunteers drive up with four izvoshchik .
the Volunteers be meet by lady who bring they nosegays and who , with the crowd that rush after they , accompany they into the station .
one of the lady who have meet the Volunteers speak to Koznyshev at the exit from the waiting - room .
' you too have come to see they off ? ' she ask in French .
' no , Princess , I be go to my brother 's for a rest .
and do you always come to see they off ? ' he ask with a slight smile .
' how can one help it ? ' reply the Princess . ' be it true that eight hundred have already go from here ?
Malvinsky would not believe I . '
' More than eight hundred : count those who do not go from Moscow direct , more than a thousand , ' say Koznyshev .
' there now !
I say so ! ' the lady say joyfully . ' and be not it true that about a million rouble have be collect ? '
' More than that , Princess . '
' and what a telegram there be to - day !
they have beat the Turks again ! '
' yes , I read it , ' he answer .
they be talk of the late telegram , confirm the report that for three consecutive day the Turks have be beat at all point and be in flight , and that a decisive battle be expect next day .
' oh , I say ! there be a splendid young man who want to go .
I do not know why they be make difficulty .
I wish to speak to you about he . I know he , please write a note for he !
he be send by the Countess Lydia Ivanovna . '
having obtain such detail as the Princess could give about the young petitioner , Koznyshev go into the first - class waiting - room , write a note to the person on whom the decision depend , and give it to the Princess .
' do you know that the well - know Count Vronsky be go by this train ? ' remark the Princess with a triumphant and significant smile , when Koznyshev have find she again and give she the note .
' I hear he be go , but do not know when .
go by this train ? '
' I have see he .
he be here . only his mother be see he off .
after all , it be the good thing he could do . '
' oh yes , certainly . '
while they be speak the crowd rush past they toward the dining - table .
they too move on , and hear the loud voice of a man who , with a glass in his hand , be make a speech to the Volunteers : ' to serve the Faith , humanity , and our brother ! ' say the gentleman , raise his voice more and more . ' Mother Moscow bless you in the great undertaking !
Zhivio ! ' [ hail ! ] he conclude in a loud and tearful voice .
every one shout ' Zhivio ! ' and a fresh crowd surge into the refreshment - room , nearly knock the Princess off her foot .
what do you think of that ! ' say Oblonsky , beam with a joyous smile , as he suddenly appear in the midst of the crowd . ' be not it finely and cordially express !
Bravo ! ...
and Sergius Ivanich !
now , you should say something , so that ... just a few word , you know , of encouragement ; you do it so well , ' he add with an affectionate , respectful and solicitous smile , gently push Koznyshev forward by the arm .
' no , I be just go . '
' where to ? '
' to my brother 's in the country , ' answer Koznyshev .
' then you will see my wife ; I have write to she , but you will see she soon . please tell she you have see I and it be all right !
she will understand .
however , tell she , if you will be so kind , that I be appoint Member of the Committee of the Joint ...
but she will understand !
you know , les petite misères de la vie humaine , ' [ the little misery of human life . ] he say to the Princess , as if to excuse himself . ' and the Princess Myagkaya , not Lisa but Bibish , be really send a thousand rifle and twelve nurse !
do I tell you ? '
' yes , I have hear , ' reply Koznyshev reluctantly .
' what a pity you be go away , ' say Oblonsky . ' to - morrow we be give a dinner to two of those who be go to the war : Dmitry Bartnyansky from Petersburg and our Veslovsky – Vasenka .
they be both go .
Veslovsky marry recently .
a fine fellow !
be not he , Princess ? ' he add , turn to the lady .
the Princess without reply glance at Koznyshev .
but the fact that Koznyshev and the Princess seem to wish to get rid of he do not abash Oblonsky in the least .
he look smilingly now at the feather on the Princess 's bonnet and now about he , as if try to remember something .
notice a lady with a collecting - box he beckon to she and put in a five - rouble note .
' I can not look calmly at those collecting - box while I have any money , ' he remark . ' and what a telegram that be to - day !
fine fellow , those Montenegrins ! '
' you do not say so ! ' he exclaim , when the Princess tell he that Vronsky be go by that train .
for a moment Oblonsky 's face look sad , but a minute later when , with a slight spring in his step and smooth his whisker , he enter the waiting - room where Vronsky be , Oblonsky have quite forget how he have sob with despair over his sister 's corpse , and he see in Vronsky only a hero and an old friend .
' with all his fault one must do he justice , ' the Princess say to Koznyshev as soon as Oblonsky have leave they . ' his be a thoroughly russian , slavonic nature !
only I be afraid it will be painful for Vronsky to see he .
say what you will , that man 's fate touch I .
have a talk with he on the journey , ' say the Princess .
' yes , I might if opportunity offer . '
' I never like he .
but this atone for much .
not only be he go himself , but he be take a whole squadron at his own expense . '
' so I hear . '
the bell ring .
everybody throng toward the door .
' there he be ! ' say the Princess , point to Vronsky who , in a long overcoat and a black broad - brimmed hat , be pass with his mother on his arm .
Oblonsky walk beside he , talk with animation .
Vronsky be frown and look straight before he , as if not hear what Oblonsky be say
probably at Oblonsky 's indication , he look round to where Koznyshev and the Princess be stand and silently raise his hat .
his face , which be aged and full of suffering , seem petrified .
come up to the train , Vronsky , let his mother pass before he , silently disappear into one of the compartment .
on the platform ' God save the Tsar ' be strike up , follow by ' hurrah ' and ' zhivio ' !
one of the Volunteers , a tall , hollow - cheste , very young man , be bow in a specially noticeable way , wave over his head a feel hat and a bouquet .
from behind he two officer and an elderly man with a large beard and a greasy cap thrust their head out , and also bow .
having taken leave of the PRINCESS , Koznyshev with Katavasov , who have join he , enter the very crowded carriage , and the train start .
at the Tsaritsyno station the train be meet by a melodious choir of young people singe Slavsya .
[ a patriotic song . ] again the Volunteers bow and thrust their head out , but Koznyshev do not pay attention to they : he have have so much to do with volunteer that he be already familiar with their general type and it do not interest he .
Katavasov , however , whose scientific occupation have offer he no opportunity of study the Volunteers , be much interested in they and question Koznyshev about they .
Koznyshev advise he to go into the second - class carriage and have a talk with some of they .
at the next station Katavasov follow this advice .
as soon as the train stop he change carriage and make acquaintance with the Volunteers .
they be sit in a corner talk loudly , evidently aware that the attention of their fellow - passenger and of Katavasov , who have just enter , be direct toward they .
the tall , hollow - cheste young man talk louder than any of they .
he be evidently drunk and be speak of something that have happen at his school .
opposite he sit an officer , no long young , wear a military jacket of the Austrian Guards .
he listen smilingly to the young man and try to stop he .
the third Volunteer , wear an artillery uniform , sit beside they on a trunk .
a fourth one be asleep .
get into conversation with the young man , Katavasov learn that he have be a rich Moscow merchant but have run through a large fortune before he be twenty - two .
Katavasov do not like he because he be effeminate , spoilt , and delicate ; he be evidently sure , especially now that he be tipsy , that he be perform an heroic deed , and he brag most unpleasantly .
another , a retired officer , also produce an unpleasant impression on Katavasov .
he be , apparently , a man who have try everything .
he have have a post on the railway , be a steward , and have start factory , and he talk about it all quite needlessly , use inappropriate technical term .
but Katavasov like the third , an artilleryman , very much .
he be a modest , quiet man , who evidently defer to the knowledge of the retire Guardsman and to the heroic self - sacrifice of the merchant and do not talk at all about himself .
when Katavasov ask he what prompt he to go to Serbia , he modestly reply :
' well , everybody be go .
one must help the Serbs .
one be sorry for they . '
' yes , it be particularly artilleryman they be short of , ' say Katavasov .
' but I have not serve long in the artillery : perhaps they will put I in the infantry or cavalry . '
' why into the infantry , when they need artilleryman most of all ? ' say Katavasov , conclude from the artilleryman 's age that he must have rise to a considerable rank .
' I do not serve in the artillery long . I be a retired Cadet , ' he say , and begin to explain why he have not pass the examination for a commission .
all this put together produce on Katavasov a disagreeable impression , and when the Volunteers get out at a station to have a drink he wish to verify this unfavourable impression by a talk with somebody .
one of the passenger , an old man in a military overcoat , have be listen all the time to Katavasov 's conversation with the Volunteers . when they be leave alone together Katavasov address he .
' what a variety there be in the position of all these man who be go there ! ' Katavasov remark vaguely , wish to express his own opinion but at the same time to draw the old man .
the old soldier have be through two campaign .
he know what a military man ought to be , and by the appearance and talk of those man , and by the swagger with which they apply themselves to their flask on the way , he consider they bad soldier .
besides that , he live in a provincial town and want to speak of a discharge soldier of his town who have volunteer , a drunkard and thief whom no one would employ any long .
but , know by experience that in the present state of public feeling it be dangerous to express any opinion contrary to the prevail one , and especially dangerous to censure the Volunteers , he also watch Katavasov .
' well , man be want there , ' he say , with laugh eye .
and they begin talk about the late war news , each conceal from the other his perplexity as to whom to - morrow 's battle be to be with , since the Turks , accord to the late intelligence , have be beat at all point .
and so they part without either of they having express his opinion .
Katavasov return to his carriage involuntarily prevaricated ; and in tell Koznyshev his observation of the Volunteers , let it appear that they be excellent fellow .
at the station of a big town the Volunteers be again greet with song and cheer ; again woman and man turn up with collecting - box , the provincial lady present nosegay and accompany the Volunteers to the refreshment - bar ; but all this be far feebler and weak than in Moscow .
when the TRAIN stopped at the provincial capital , Koznyshev , instead of go to the refreshment - room , walk up and down the platform .
the first time he pass the Vronskys ' compartment he notice that the blind be down .
but the next time he pass he see the old Countess at the window .
she beckon to he .
' you see I be go with he as far as Kursk , ' say she .
' yes , so I hear , ' reply Koznyshev , stop by her window and glance inside . ' what a fine action this be of his ! ' he add , notice that Vronsky be not there .
' yes , but after his misfortune what could he do ? '
' what a dreadful occurrence ! ' remark Koznyshev .
' oh , what I have endure !
but come in ...
oh , what I have endure ! ' she repeat when Koznyshev have enter and take a seat beside she . ' you can not imagine it !
for six week he speak to no one and eat only when I implore he to .
one could not leave he a moment alone .
we take away everything that he could kill himself with . we live on the ground floor , but one could not tell what he might do .
you know he have once before shoot himself on her account ? ' she say , and the old woman 's brow knit at the recollection . ' yes , she end as such a woman deserve to end .
even the death she choose be mean and low . '
' it be not for we to judge , Countess , ' Koznyshev remark with a sigh , ' but I understand how distress it be for you . '
' oh , do not speak of it !
I be live on my estate and he be with I .
a note be bring .
he write an answer and send it off .
we have no idea that she be herself there at the station .
in the evening I have only just go to my room when my Mary tell I that at the station a lady have throw herself under a train .
I feel as if I have receive a blow ! – I know it be she !
the first thing I say be : " do not tell he ! "
but he have already be tell .
his coachman have be there and see it all .
when I run to his room he be beside himself – it be terrible to see he .
he do not say a word , but off he gallop to the station .
I do not know what happen there , but they bring he back like a corpse .
I should not have know he .
" Prostration complete , " the doctor say .
then come rave madness , almost ! ... ah , one can not speak of it ! ' exclaim the Countess with a gesture of her arm .
' a terrible time ! no , say what you will , she be a bad woman .
such desperate passion !
only to prove something unusual .
well , she prove it !
she ruin herself and two splendid man – her husband and my unfortunate son . '
' and how about her husband ? ' inquire Koznyshev .
' he take her little girl .
Alexis at first agree to everything .
but now he be greatly distressed at having give up his daughter to a stranger .
but he can not go back on his word .
Karenin come to the funeral ; but we try to arrange so that he and Alexis should not meet .
for he , the husband , it be well .
she have set he free .
but my poor son have give himself up to she entirely .
he have throw up everything – his career , I ; and then she do not even pity he , but deliberately deal he a deathblow .
no , say what you will , her death itself be the death of a horrid woman , without religion .
God forgive I ! I can not help hate her memory when I see my son 's ruin ! '
' but how be he now ? '
' it be a God - send help for we , this serbian war !
I be an old woman and understand nothing about it , but for he it be a godsend .
of course I , as his mother , fear for he ; and above all I hear that ce n'est pas très bien vu a Petersburg . [ it be not very favourably regard in Petersburg . ]
but it can not be help !
it be the only thing that could rouse he .
his friend , Yashvin , have lose everything at card and be go to Serbia .
he come to see he and persuade he to go .
now it interest he .
please have a talk with he . I want he to have some distraction .
he be so sad .
unluckily , too , his tooth have start ache .
but he will be very glad to see you .
please have a talk with he . he be walk about on the other side . '
Koznyshev say he would be very pleased , and cross over to the other platform .
in the SLANTING SHADOW of a pile of sack heap up on the platform , Vronsky , in a long overcoat , his hat pull down low and his hand in his pocket , be walk up and down like an animal in a cage , turn sharply every twenty pace .
to Koznyshev as he approach it seem that Vronsky see but pretend not to see he .
but Koznyshev do not care .
he be above any personal consideration with Vronsky .
in his eye Vronsky at that moment seem an important worker in a great cause , and Koznyshev consider it his duty to encourage and cheer he .
he go up to he .
Vronsky pause , look at Koznyshev , recognize he , and advance a few step to meet he , press his hand very very hard .
' perhaps you do not wish to see I , ' say Koznyshev , ' but can I not be of some use to you ? '
' there be no one whom it would be less unpleasant for I to meet than yourself , ' return Vronsky . ' excuse I .
there be nothing that be pleasant in life for I . '
' I understand , and I want to offer you my service , ' say Koznyshev , gaze into Vronsky 's face , which bear evident sign of suffering . ' do you not want a letter to Ristich [ the serbian Prime Minister.]or to Milan ? ' [ Prince Milan , afterwards King of Serbia . ]
' oh no ! ' reply Vronsky , as if it cost he an effort to understand . ' if you do not mind , let we walk up and down .
it be so stuffy in the carriage .
a letter ?
no thank you . no introduction be need to enable one to die !
unless indeed to the Turks ! ... ' he add , smile with his lip only .
his eye retain their expression of angry suffering .
' yes , but it may be easy for you to establish connection ( which will be necessary anyway ) with some one who have be prepare .
however , as you please .
I be very glad to hear of your decision .
the Volunteers be be very much attack and a man like yourself will raise they in public opinion . '
' as a man I have this quality , that I do not value my life at all and that I have physical energy enough to hack my way into a square and slay or fall – that I be sure of .
I be glad that there be something for which I can lay down the life which I not only do not want , but of which I be sick !
it will be of use to somebody , ' and he move his jaw impatiently because of the incessant gnawing pain in his tooth , which even prevent he from speak with the expression he desire .
' you will recover , I prophesy it , ' say Koznyshev , feeling touch . ' to free one 's brother from oppression be an aim worth both die and live for .
God grant you outward success and inward peace , ' he add , hold out his hand .
Vronsky grasp the hand warmly . ' yes , as a tool I may be of some use . but as a man I – be a ruin ! ' say he , pause between the word .
the acute pain in the strong tooth , fill his mouth with saliva , hinder his speaking .
he remain silent , gaze at the wheel of the approach tender , which be slowly and smoothly glide over the rail .
suddenly a quite different feeling , not of pain but of torment inward discomfort , make he for a moment forget his toothache .
at the sight of the tender and the rail , and under the influence of conversation with some one he have not meet since the catastrophe , he suddenly remember she ; that is , remember what be leave of she when ; like a madman , he run into the railway shed where on a table , stretch out shamelessly before the eye of stranger , lie the mangled body still warm with recent life . the head , leave intact , with its heavy plait and the curl round the temple , be throw back ; and on the lovely face with its half - open red lip be freeze an expression – pitiful on the lip and horrible in the fix open eye – an expression which repeat , as if in word , the terrible phrase about his repent it – which she have utter during their quarrel .
he try to remember she as she be when he have meet she the first time – also at a railway station – mysterious , charming , loving , seek and give joy , and not cruelly vindictive as he remember she at the last .
he try to recall his good moment with she but they be for ever poison .
he could think of her only - as triumphant , having carry out the threat of inflict on he totally useless but irrevocable remorse .
he cease to feel the pain in his tooth , and sobs distort his face .
having twice walk past the sack and master himself , he turn calmly to Koznyshev :
' you have not see any telegram later than yesterday 's ?
yes , they have be beat a third time , but a decisive battle be expect to - morrow . '
and having speak about the propose proclamation of Milan as King and of the immense result this might have , they return to their respective carriage after the second bell have already sound .
as HE have not KNOWN when he would be able to leave Moscow , Koznyshev have not send a telegram to his brother ask to be meet at the station , and Levin be not at home when , toward noon , Katavasov and Koznyshev , dark as Arabs with the dust in the little taranta they have hire at the station , draw up at the porch of the Pokrovsk house .
Kitty , who be sit on the balcony with her father and sister , recognize her brother - in - law and run down to meet he .
' be not you ashamed of yourself for not let we know ? ' she say , hold out her hand to he and offer her forehead for a kiss .
' we get here first - rate without trouble you , ' reply Koznyshev . ' I be so dusty that I dare not touch you .
I be so busy that I do not know when I could tear myself away .
and you , as usual , ' say he ; smile , ' be enjoy tranquil happiness outside the current in your peaceful shadow .
and here be our friend , Theodore Vasilyevich , who have come at last . '
' but I be not a negro ! when I have have a wash I shall look like a human being ! ' Katavasov say in his usual jesting way , hold out his hand and smile , his tooth look particularly bright in contrast with his black face .
' Kostya will be so pleased !
he have go to the farm .
it be time he be back . '
' always busy with his husbandry !
" in the shallow " hit it exactly , ' remark Katavasov . ' and we in town can see nothing but the serbian war !
well , and what do my friend think of it ?
surely not the same as other people ? '
' oh , nothing in particular – the same as everybody , ' Kitty answer , rather embarrassed and glance round at Koznyshev . ' well , I will send for he .
Papa be stay with we .
he have not long return from abroad . '
and having arrange that Levin should be send for and that the dusty visitor should be show where to wash – one of they in Levin 's study and the other in Dolly 's former room – and about lunch for they , Kitty , exercise the right of move quickly of which she have be deprive during pregnancy , run up the balcony stair .
' it be Sergius Ivanich and Katavasov , the Professor , ' say she .
' oh , how try in this heat ! ' say the Prince .
' no , Papa , he be very nice , and Kostya be very fond of he , ' Kitty reply with a smile as of entreaty , having notice a sarcastic expression on her father 's face .
' I do not mind . '
' you go and entertain they , dear , ' Kitty say to her sister .
' they meet Steve at the station , he be quite well .
and I will run to Mitya .
as ill - luck will have it I have not feed he since breakfast .
he will be awake now and be certainly scream . ' and feel the flow of milk , she go with rapid step to the nursery .
it be not a mere guess – the bond between herself and the baby have not yet be sever – and she know surely by the flow of milk within herself that he be want food .
she know he be scream before she reach the nursery .
and so he be .
she hear his voice and increase her speed .
but the fast she go the louder he scream .
it be a fine healthy voice , only hungry and impatient .
' have he be scream long , Nurse ? long ? ' she ask hurriedly , sit down and prepare to nurse the baby . ' be quick and give he to I ! oh , Nurse ! how tiresome you be ; come , you can tie up his cap afterwards ! '
the baby be convulse with hungry yell .
' but one must , you know , ma'am , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna , who be almost always in the nursery . ' he must be properly tidy up !
Goo ! Goo ! ' she coo to he , pay no attention to the mother .
the nurse bring the baby to his mother , and Agatha Mikhaylovna follow behind , her face soften with tenderness .
' he know I , he do !
it be God 's truth , Catherine Alexandrovna , dear , he know I ! ' cry Agatha Mikhaylovna , raise her voice above the baby 's .
but Kitty do not listen .
her impatience be increase with the baby 's .
as a result of their impatience matter be long in getting settle .
the baby get hold in the wrong place and be angry .
at last , after desperate screaming and choking , matter go smoothly , and both mother and child feel calm and be silent .
' but he too , poor mite , be all in a perspiration , ' whisper Kitty , feel he with her hand . ' why do you think he know you ? ' she add , move her eye so as to see the baby 's . they look roguishly at she , she think , from beneath his cap , which have slip forward , and she watch the rhythmical rise and fall of his cheek and the little hand with the rosy palm make circular movement .
' it be impossible !
if he know anyone it would be I , ' Kitty reply to Agatha Mikhaylovna 's statement , and smile .
she smile because , though she say it be impossible for he to know , she be sure in her heart that he not only know Agatha Mikhaylovna , but that he know and understand everything , even many thing that no one else know , and which she , his mother , have learn to know and understand through he .
for Agatha Mikhaylovna , for the nurse , for his grandfather and even for his father , Mitya be a living be require only material care , but for his mother he have already long be a moral being , with whom she have already have a long series of spiritual relation .
' well , wait till he wake up and you will see for yourself .
when I do like that , he quite brighten up , the dear !
he brighten up like a sunny morning , ' say Agatha Mikhaylovna .
' well , all right , all right ! we shall see , ' Kitty whisper . ' but now go away , he be fall asleep . '
AGATHA MIKHAYLOVNA WENT out on tiptoe ; the nurse pull down the blind , drive away the fly from under the muslin curtain of the cot and also a bumble - bee that be buzz against the window - pane , and sit down , wave a birch branch above the mother and child .
' oh , the heat ! the heat ! ...
if God would only , send a little rain ! ' she say .
' yes , yes ! Hush ! ... ' be all Kitty answer as she sat softly rock herself and tenderly press the little plump arm , which look as if a thread have be tie round the wrist , and be still feebly wave while Mitya keep shut and open his eye .
this hand disturb Kitty ; she want to kiss it , but be afraid to do so lest she should wake her baby .
at last the arm cease wave and the eye close .
only now and then the baby , continue his business , lift his long curved lash and look at his mother with moist eye that seem black in the dim light .
the nurse stop wave the branch and begin to doze .
from upstairs be hear the roll of the Prince 's voice and of Katavasov 's laughter .
' I expect they 've get into conversation in my absence , ' think Kitty , ' but all the same it be provoke that Kostya be away .
I expect he have go to the apiary again .
though I be sorry that he go there so often , yet I be also glad of it .
it be a distraction for he .
he be more cheerful now than he be in spring .
then he be so gloomy , and suffer so much , that I be become alarmed about he .
and how funny he be ! ' she whisper with a smile .
she know what be torment her husband .
it be his want of faith .
although have she be ask whether she think that if he do not believe in the future life he would perish , she would have have to acknowledge that he would , yet his lack of faith do not make she unhappy ; and she , who accept the doctrine that salvation be impossible for an unbeliever , while love her husband 's soul more than anything in the world , smile when she think of his disbelief and call he funny .
' why have he be read those philosophy for a whole year ? ' she think . ' if it be all write in those book , he can understand it .
if what they say be untrue , why read they ?
he say himself that he would like to believe .
then why do he not believe ?
it must be because he think too much .
and he think too much because of his solitude .
he be always alone , alone .
he can not talk to we about everything .
I think he will be glad of these visitor , especially of Katavasov .
he like argue with they , ' she reflect , and then turn her mind to the problem of where she have well arrange for Katavasov to sleep – in a separate room or with Koznyshev ?
and here a thought suddenly strike she which make she start with excitement and even disturb Mitya , who give she a severe look in consequence .
' I do not think the laundress have bring the thing back and the spare sheet be all in use .
if I do not see to it , Agatha Mikhaylovna will give Sergius Ivanich use bed - linen ! ' and the very thought of this send the blood into Kitty 's face .
' yes , I must see about it , ' she decide , and return to her former train of thought she remember that there be something important , something spiritual , that she have not yet think out and try to recollect what it be .
' oh yes ! Kostya be an unbeliever , ' she think again with a smile .
' well , he be an unbeliever !
well let he be that than be like Madame Stahl , or like what I want to be when I be abroad .
no , he will never pretend . '
then a recent proof of his kindness come vividly to her mind .
two week before , Dolly have receive a penitent letter from her husband .
he implore she to save his honour and to sell her estate to pay his debt .
dolly be in despair ; she hate her husband , despise he , pity he , make up her mind to divorce he and to refuse ; but end by consent to sell part of her estate .
with an involuntary smile of emotion , Kitty remember her own husband 's shamefacedness after that , and his repeat awkward attempt to approach the subject he have on his mind , and how at length having discover the only way of help Dolly without offend she , he suggest to Kitty that she should give her sister her own part of the estate , a device that have not occur to she .
' how can he be an unbeliever with such a heart ?
and his dread of hurt anybody 's feeling , even a child 's !
everything for other , nothing for himself !
Sergius Ivanich quite regard it as Kostya 's duty to act as his steward , and so do his sister .
and now Dolly and her child be his ward !
and then there be all those peasant who come to he every day as if it be his business to help they .
' yes , only be like your father , only be like he ! ' she whisper , give Mitya to the nurse , and touch his cheek with her lip .
since the moment when , at the sight of his beloved and die brother , Levin for the first time look at the question of life and death in the light of the new conviction , as he call they , which between the age of twenty and thirty - four have imperceptibly replace the belief of his childhood and youth , he have be less horrified by death than by life without the least knowledge of whence it come , what it be for , why , and what it be .
organism , their destruction , the indestructibility of matter , the law of the conservation of energy , development – the term that have supersede these belief – be very useful for mental purpose ; but they give no guidance for life , and Levin suddenly feel like a person who have exchange a thick fur coat for a muslin garment and who , be out in the frost for the first time , become clearly convinced , not by argument , but with the whole of his being , that he be as good as naked and that he must inevitably perish miserably .
from that moment , without think about it and though he continue live as he have do heretofore , Levin never cease to feel afraid of his ignorance .
moreover , he be vaguely conscious that what he have call his conviction be really ignorance and , more than that , be a state of mind which render knowledge of what he need impossible .
at the commencement of his married life the new joy and new duty he experience completely stifle these thought ; but lately , since his wife 's confinement , while live in Moscow without any occupation , the problem demand solution have present itself more and more insistently to he .
for he the problem be this : ' if I do not accept the reply offer by Christianity to the question my life present , what solution do I accept ? '
and he not only fail to find in the whole arsenal of his conviction any kind of answer , but he could not even find anything resemble an answer .
he be in the position of a man seek for food in a toyshop or at a gunsmith 's .
involuntarily and unconsciously , in every book , in every conversation , and in every person he meet , he now seek for their relation to those question and for a solution to they .
what astounded and upset he most in this connection , be that the majority of those in his set and of his age , having like himself replace their former belief by new conviction like his own ; do not see anything to be distressed about , and be quite contented and tranquil . so that , besides the principal question , Levin be torment by other question : be these people sincere ?
be they not pretend ? or do they understand possibly in some different and clear way than he , the answer science give to the question he be concern with ?
and he study painstakingly both the opinion of those people and the book which contain their answer .
one thing he have discover since these question have begin to occupy he , namely , that he have be mistake in imagine from his recollection of his youthful university circle , that religion have outlive its day and no long exist .
all those near to he who live good life be people who believe : the old Prince , Lvov , of whom he have grow so fond , his brother Koznyshev , and all the womenfolk . his wife believe as he have do in early childhood , and ninety - nine out of a hundred of the russian people , the whole of the people whose life he most respect , also believe .
another thing be that , having read a great many book he become convinced that those who share his outlook understand only what he have understand , explain nothing and merely ignore those problem – without a solution to which he feel he could not live , – but try to solve quite other problem which could not interest he , such as , for instance , the development of organism , a mechanical explanation of the soul , and so on .
besides , during the time of his wife 's confinement an extraordinary thing have happen to he .
he , an unbeliever , begin xo pray , and while praying believe .
but that moment have pass , and he could not allot any place in his life to the state of mind he have then experience .
he could not admit that he have then know the truth and be now make a mistake ; because , as soon as he reflect calmly about it , it all fall to piece , nor could he acknowledge that he have then be mistaken , for he prize the state his soul have then be in , and by acknowledge it to be a result of weakness he would have defile those moment .
he be painfully out of harmony with himself and strain all his spiritual power to escape from this condition .
these thoughts oppress arid torment he , now more and now less strongly , but never leave he .
he read and think , and the more he read and think the far he feel from his goal .
latterly in Moscow and in the country , having convince himself that he could get no answer from the materialist , he read through and re - read Plato , Spinoza , Kant , Schelling , Hegel , and Schopenhauer , those philosopher who explain life otherwise than materialistically .
their thought seem to he fruitful when he read , or be himself devise refutation of other teaching , the materialistic in particular ; but as soon as he begin read , or himself devise , solution to life 's problem , the same thing occur every time .
follow long definition of vague word such as spirit , will , freedom , substance , and deliberately enter the verbal trap set for he by the philosopher , or by himself , he seem to begin to understand something .
but he have only to forget that artificial line of thought , and to return direct from real . life to what have appear satisfactory so long as he keep to the give line of thought – and suddenly the whole artificial edifice tumble down like a house of card , and it be evident that the edifice have be construct of those same word differently arrange , and without regard for something in life more important than reason .
at one time , while read Schopenhauer , he replace the word will by the word love , and this new philosophy comfort he for a day or two , as long as he do not stand aside from it ; but it , too , collapse when he view it in relation to real life , and it turn out to be a muslin garment without warmth .
his brother Koznyshev advise he to read Homyakov 's theological writing .
Levin read the second volume of they , and in spite of its polemical , polished , and witty style , which at first repel he , he be strike by its teaching about the Church .
he be strike by the thought that it be not give to isolated man to attain divine truth , but that it be give to a community unite by love – the Church .
he be pleased by the thought that it be easy to believe in an exist live Church which compound all the belief of man , and have God at its head and be therefore holy and infallible , and from it to accept belief in God , a distant , mysterious God , the Creation , and so on .
but afterwards on read the history of the Church , first by a Roman Catholic and then by a Greek - orthodox writer , and find that each essentially infallible Church repudiate the other , he become disenchanted with Homyakov 's teaching about the Church ; and that edifice fall into dust just as the philosophical structure have do .
all that spring he be not himself and experience terrible moment .
' without know what I be , and why I be here it be impossible to live .
yet I can not know that and therefore I can not live , ' he say to himself .
' in an infinity of time , and in infinity of matter , in infinite space , a bubble , a bubble organism , separate itself , and that bubble maintain itself awhile and then burst , and that bubble be – I ! '
this be a distressing falsehood , but it be the sole and last result of century and the age - long labour of human thought in that direction .
it be the late belief . it be the rule conviction and from among all other explanation Levin , without himself know when or how , have involuntarily choose it as be at any rate the clear of all .
but it be not only false , it be the cruel mockery of some evil power : a wicked and disgusting Power , and one to which it be impossible to submit .
it be necessary to free oneself from that Power .
the mean of escape be in the hand of every man .
an end have to be put to that dependence on an evil power ; and there be one means – death .
and though he be a happy and healthy family man , Levin be several time so near to suicide that he hide a cord he have lest he should hang himself , and he fear to carry a gun lest he should shoot himself .
but he do not hang or shoot himself and go on live .
when LEVIN THOUGHT about what he be and why he live , he could find no answer and be drive to despair ; but when he leave off ask himself those question he seem to know what he be and why he live , for he act and live unfalteringly and definitely – recently even more unfalteringly than before .
when he return to the country in June , he go back to his ordinary occupation – husbandry , intercourse with the peasant and with his neighbour , management of his house and of his sister 's and brother 's affair , which be entrust to he , relation with his wife and relative , care about his baby , and a new hobby – beekeeping , which he take up with enthusiasm that spring – occupy all his time .
these matter interest he , not because he justify they to himself by any general theory as he have do previously ; on the contrary , be now on the one hand disenchant by the ill - success of his former occupation for the general welfare , and on the other hand too much occupy with his own thought and by the mass of affair that overwhelm he from all side , he quite abandon all calculation of public utility , and these matter interest he only because it seem to he that he have to do what he be do , and could not act otherwise .
formerly ( it have be so almost from childhood and increasingly so till his complete maturity ) when he try to do anything for the good of everybody , for humanity , for Russia , for the whole village , he have notice that the thought of it be agreeable , but the activity itself be always unsatisfactory ; there be no full assurance that the work be really necessary , and the activity itself , which at first seem so great , ever lessen and lessen till it vanish . but now since his marriage , when he begin to confine himself more and more to live for himself , though he no long feel any joy at the thought of his activity , he feel confident that his work be necessary , see that it progress far well than formerly , and that it be always grow more and more .
now , as if involuntarily , he cut ever deeply and deep into the earth , so that he , like a ploughshare , could not get out without turn the sod .
for the family to live as their grandfather and father have be accustom to live , that be at the same educational level , and so to bring up their child , be undoubtedly necessary .
it be just as necessary as to dine when hungry ; and therefore just as it be necessary to prepare dinner , so it be necessary to arrange the husbandry at Pokrovsk in such a way as to derive an income from it .
as surely as one must pay one 's debt , so surely be it necessary to keep the patrimony in such a state that when his son inherit it , he would thank his father , as Levin thank his grandfather , for all that he have build and plant .
to do this he must not lease the land , but must farm it himself , keep cattle , manure the field , and plant wood .
it be as impossible not to look after his brother 's and sister 's affair , and those of all the peasant who come for advice and be accustom to do so , as it be impossible to abandon a baby you be already hold in your arm .
it be necessary to look after the comfort of his sister - in - law and her child , who have be invite , and of his wife and child , and it be impossible not to pass at least a small portion of each day with they .
all this , with game - shooting , and his new hobby of beekeeping , fill up the whole of that life of his which seem to he , when he think about it , to have no meaning .
but besides know definitely what he have to do , Levin also know how to do it all , and which affair be the more important of any two .
he know that he must hire labourer as cheaply as possible ; but that he must not take they in bondage for less than they be worth by advance they money , though this would be very profitable .
he might sell straw to the peasant in a time of shortage , though he feel sorry for they ; but an inn or a public - house , although it bring in a revenue , must be do away with .
felling tree must be punish as severely as possible , but if peasant let their cattle stray he must not extract fine from they ; and though it grieve the watchman and weakened discipline , the stray cattle must not be detain .
he must lend money to Peter to liberate he from the usurer to whom he be pay ten per cent . a month ; but he must neither reduce or postpone the payment of rent by the peasant who be in default .
the steward must not be excuse when the small meadow be not mown and the grass be waste ; but grass must not be mow on the eighty desyatina which have be plant with young tree .
he must not pardon a labourer who go home at a busy time because his father have die – sorry as he might be for the man – part of his pay have to be deduct for the precious month during which he have be absent ; but he could not neglect give a monthly allowance to old domestic serf who be of no use at all to he .
Levin know , too , that on return home the first thing he must do be to go to his wife , who be unwell , and that the peasant who have be wait for three hour to see he could wait a little long ; and he know that in spite of all the pleasure of hiving a swarm , he must forgo that pleasure , let the old beekeeper hive the swarm without he , and go to talk to the peasant who have find he at the apiary .
whether he be act well or ill he do not know and far from lay down the law about it , he now avoid talk or think about it .
think about it lead he into doubt and prevent he from see what he should and should not do .
but when he do not think , but just live , he unceasingly feel in his soul the presence of an infallible judge decide which of two possible action be the well and which the bad ; and as soon as he do what he should not have do , he immediately feel this .
in this way he live , not know or see any possibility of know what he be or why he live in the world , and he suffer so much from that ignorance that he be afraid he might commit suicide , while at the same time he be firmly cut his own particular definite path through life .
the day when KOZNYSHEV ARRIVED at Pokrovsk be one of Levin 's most distressing day .
it be the most pressingly busy season of the year , when an extraordinary tension of self - sacrifice labour manifest itself among all the peasant , such as be never show in any other condition of life , and such as would be highly esteemed if the people who exhibit this quality esteem it themselves , if it be not repeat every year , and if the result of that tension be not so simple .
to mow or reap the rye and oat , and cart they , to finish mow the meadow , to re - plough the fallow land , to thresh the seed corn and sow the winter rye – all this seem simple and ordinary ; yet to get it all do , it be necessary that all the peasant , from the old to the young , should work unceasingly those three or four week , three time as hard as usual , live on kvas , onion , and black bread , threshing and cart the sheaf by night and sleep not more than two or three hour out of the twenty - four .
and this be do every year , all over Russia .
having live most of his life in the country and in close contact with the peasant , Levin always feel , at this busy time , that this general stimulation of the peasant communicate itself to he .
early in the morning he ride to where the first rye be be sow , then to see the oats cart and stack , and return home when his wife and sister - in - law be get up he drink coffee with they , and then walk to the farm where the new threshing machine be to be start to thresh the seed corn .
all that day , when talk to the steward and the peasant and at home with his wife , Dolly , her child , and his father - in - law , Levin 's thought be busy with the one and only subject , outside his farming , that interest he at this time , and in everything he seek its relation to his question : ' what be I ? where be I ? and why be I here ? '
stand in the cool shade of the newly - thatch barn , with its wattle wall of hazel , which have not yet shed its scented leave , press against the freshly strip aspen of the roof - tree under the thatch , he look now through the open doorway into which the dry and bitter chaff - dust rush and whirl , at the grass round the threshing - floor light up by the hot sunshine and at the fresh straw that have just be bring out of the barn , now at the bright - head and white - breasted swallow that fly in chirp beneath the roof and , flap their wing , pause in the light of the doorway , and now at the people who bustle about in the dark and dusty barn ; and he think strange thought :
' why be all this be do ? ' he wonder . ' why be I stand here , oblige they to work ?
why do they all make such effort and try to show I their zeal ?
why be my old friend Matrena toil so ( I doctor she after the fire , when she be strike by a girder ) ? ' he think , look at a thin peasant woman who push the grain along with a rake , her dark sunburnt bare foot step with effort on the hard uneven barn floor . ' she recover then , but to - day or tomorrow , or in ten year ' time , they will bury she and nothing will be leave of she , nor of that smart girl with the red skirt , who with such dexterous and delicate movement be beat the chaff from the ear .
she too will be bury , and that piebald geld too – and that one very soon , ' he reflect , look at a horse breathe quickly with fall and rise belly and inflated nostril , as it trod on the slanting wheel that move under it . ' they will bury she , and so they will Theodore , who be feed the machine , his curly beard full of chaff and his shirt tear on his white shoulder .
yet he loosen the sheaf and give direction , shout at the woman , and quickly put right the strap on the fly - wheel .
and , moreover , not they only but I too shall be bury and nothing will be leave .
what be it all for ? '
he think this , and at the same time look at his watch to calculate how much they could thresh in an hour .
he have to know this in order to set they their day 's task accordingly .
' they 've be nearly an hour , and have only just start on the third heap , ' think he , approach the man who be feed the machine , and shout above its din , tell he to put in less at a time .
' you put in too much at a time , Theodore !
do not you see , it get jammed and that be why it do not go well !
feed it in evenly ! '
Theodore , black with the dust that stick to his perspiring face , shout something in reply , but still do not do as Levin wish .
Levin go up to the roller , motion Theodore aside and himself begin feed the machine .
having work till the peasant ' dinner - hour , which soon come , he leave the barn together with Theodore and begin chat , stand beside the neat yellow freshly - reap stack of seed - rye on the threshing - floor .
Theodore come from the farth village , the one where Levin have formerly let the land to be work co - operatively .
at present it be let to the innkeeper .
Levin get into conversation with Theodore about that land , and ask whether Plato , a well - to - do . and worthy peasant of that village , would not rent that land next year .
' the rent be too high , Constantine Dmitrich , ' answer Theodore , pick out the ear of rye from the front of his damp shirt .
' but how do Kirilov make it pay ? '
' why should not Mityuka ' ( as he contemptuously call the innkeeper ) ' make it pay , Constantine Dmitrich ?
that fellow will press hard , but he will get his own !
he will have no pity on a Christian !
but as if Daddy Plato would ever skin a man ! he will lend , and sometimes let a man off , and so run short himself .
it all depend on the sort of man . '
' but why should he let anyone off ? '
oh well , you see , people differ ! one man live only for his own need : take Mityuka , who only stuff his own belly , but Plato be an upright old man .
he live for his soul and remember God . '
' how do he remember God ?
how do he live for the soul ? ' Levin almost cry out .
' you know how : rightly , in a godly way .
you know , people differ !
take you , for instance , you will not injure anyone either ... '
' yes , yes ! good - bye ! ' utter Levin , gasp with excitement , and turn away , he take his stick and walk quickly away toward home .
at the peasant 's word about Plato live for his soul , rightly , in a godly way , dim but important thought crowd into his mind , as if break loose from some place where they have be lock up , and all rush toward one goal , whirl in his head , dazzle he with their light .
LEVIN went along the high - road with long stride , attend not so much to his thought – he could not yet disentangle they – as to a condition of his soul he have never before experienced .
the word the peasant have speak produce in his soul the effect of an electric spark , suddenly transform and welding into one a whole group of disjointed impotent separate idea which have always interest he .
these idea , though he have be unconscious of they , have be in his mind when he be talk about let the land .
he feel something new in his soul and probe this something with pleasure , not yet know what it be .
' to live not for one 's need but for God !
for what God ?
what could be more senseless than what he say ?
he say we must not live for our need – that is , we must not live for what we understand and what attract we , what we wish for , but must live for something incomprehensible , for God whom nobody can understand or define .
well ?
and do I not understand those senseless word of Theodore 's ?
and having understand they , do I doubt their justice ? do I find they stupid , vague , or inexact ?
' no , I understand he just as he understand they : understand completely and more clearly than I understand anything in life ; and I have never in my life doubt it , and can not doubt it . and not I alone but every one – the whole world – only understand that completely .
nobody be free from doubt about other thing , but nobody ever doubt this one thing , everybody always agree with it . { ? ? }
' theodore say that Kirilov , the innkeeper , live for his belly .
that be intelligible and reasonable .
we all , as reasoning creature , can not live otherwise .
and then that same Theodore say that it be wrong to live for one 's belly , and that we must live for Truth , for God , and at the first hint I understand he !
I and million of man who live century ago and those who be live now : peasant , the poor in spirit , and sage , who have think and write about it , say the same thing in their obscure word – we all agree on that one thing : what we should live for , and what be good .
I , and all other man , know only one thing firmly , clearly , and certainly , and this knowledge can not be explain by reason : it be outside reason , have no cause , and can have no consequence .
' if goodness have a cause , it be no long goodness if it have a consequence – a reward , it be also not goodness .
therefore goodness be beyond the chain of cause and effect .
' it be exactly this that I know and that we all know .
{ ? ? } ' and I seek for miracle , regret not to see a miracle that might convince I !
a physical miracle would have tempt I . but here be a miracle , the one possible , everlasting miracle , all around I , and I do not notice it !
' what great miracle could there be than that ?
' can I possibly have find the solution of everything ? have my suffering really come to an end ? ' think Levin as he stride along the dusty road , oblivious of the heat , of his fatigue , and fill with a sense of relief from long - continue suffering .
that feeling be so joyous that it seem questionable to he .
he be breathless with excitement and , incapable of go far , he turn from the road into the wood and sit down on the uncut grass in the shade of the aspen .
take the hat from his perspiring head , he lie down , lean his elbow upon the juicy , broad - blade forest grass .
' yes , I must clear it up and understand it , ' he think , gaze intently at the untrodden grass before he , and follow the movement of a green insect that be crawl up a stalk of couch grass and be hinder in its ascent by a leaf of goutwort . ' what have I discover ? ' he ask himself , turn back the leaf that it should not hinder the insect and bend another blade for the creature to pass on to .
' what gladden I ? what have I discover ?
( there ! it do not want to get on to that grass , but have spread its wing and fly away ) there take place , accord to physical , chemical , and physiological law , a change of matter .
and in all of we , include the aspen and the cloud and nebulae , evolution be proceed .
evolution from what , into what ?
unende evolution and struggle ...
as if there could be any direction and struggle in infinity !
and I be surprised that , in spite of the great effort of thought on that path , the meaning of life , the meaning of my impulse and my aspiration , be not reveal to I .
but now I say that I know the meaning of my life : it be to live for God , for the soul .
' I have discover nothing .
I have only perceive what it be that I know .
I have understand the Power that not only give I life in the past but be give I life now .
I have free myself from deception and learn to know my Master .
he briefly review the whole course of his thought during the last two year , begin with the clear and obvious thought of death at the sight of his beloved brother hopelessly ill .
having then for the first time clearly understand that before every man , and before himself , there lie only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he have conclude that to live under such condition be impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it do not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must shoot oneself .
but he have do neither the one nor the other , yet he continue to live , think , and feel , have even at that very time got marry , experience many joy , and be happy whenever he be not think of the meaning of his life .
what do that show ?
it show that he have live well , but think badly .
he have live ( without be conscious of it ) by those spiritual truth which he have imbibe with his mother 's milk ; but in thought he have not only not acknowledge those truth , but have studiously evade they .
now it be clear to he that he be only able to live , thank to the belief in which he have be bring up .
' what should I have be and how should I have live my life , if I have not have those belief , and have not know that one must live for God , and not for one 's own need ?
I should have rob , lie , and murder .
nothing of that which constitute the chief joy of my life would have exist for I . '
and although he make the great effort of imagination , he could not picture to himself the bestial creature he would have be , have he not know what he be live for .
' I look for an answer to my question .
but reason could not give I an answer – reason be incommensurable with the question .
life itself have give I the answer , in my knowledge of what be good and what be bad .
and that knowledge I do not acquire in any way ; it be give to I as to everybody , give because I could not take it from anywhere .
' where do I get it from ?
be it by reason that I attain to the knowledge that I must love my neighbour and not throttle he ?
they tell I so when I be a child , and I gladly believe it , because they tell I what be already in my soul .
but who discover it ?
not reason !
reason have discover the struggle for existence and the law that I must throttle all those who hinder the satisfaction of my desire .
that be the deduction reason make .
but the law of love other could not be discover by reason , because it be unreasonable . '
' ah yes ! Pride ! ' he say to himself , turn over face downwards and begin to tie blade of grass into knot , try not to break they .
' and not only mental pride but mental stupidity .
and chiefly roguery of mind , precisely roguery .
just mind - swindling , ' he repeat .
LEVIN remember a recent SCENE between Dolly and her child .
leave by themselves , the child have start cook raspberry over a candle , and pour jet of milk into their mouth .
when their mother catch they at this pursuit , she begin in Levin 's presence to impress on they how much trouble what they be waste have cost grow - up people , that that trouble have be take for they , that if they break cup they would not have anything to drink tea out of , and if they spilt milk they would not have anything to eat and would die of hunger .
and Levin be strike by the quiet dull disbelief with which the child listen to these remark from their mother .
they be only grieve that their amusing game have be end , and they do not believe a word of what she be say .
and they could not believe it , because they could not imagine the whole volume of all they consume , and therefore could not conceive that what they be destroy be the very thing they live on .
' that be quite a different matter , ' they think . ' and not in the least interesting or important , because those thing always have be and always will be .
it be always the same thing over and over again .
there be no need for we to think about that , it be all ready for we ; but we want to think out something of our own invention and new .
now we 've think of put raspberry in a cup and cook they over a candle , and of pour milk into each other 's mouth like fountain .
that be amusing and new , and not at all bad than drink out of cup . '
' do not we , and do not I , do just the same , when intellectually I seek for the meaning of the force of nature and the purpose of human life ? ' he go on thinking .
' and do not all the philosophic theory do the same , when by way of thought strange and unnatural to man they lead he to a knowledge of what he know long ago , and know so surely that without it he could not live ?
be it not evident in the development of every philosopher 's theory that he know in advance , as indubitably as the peasant Theodore and not a whit more clearly than he , the chief meaning of life , and only wish , by a questionable intellectual process , to return to what every one know ?
' suppose now that the child be leave alone to procure or make cup for themselves and to milk the cow and so on .
would they play trick ?
no , they would die of hunger !
suppose we , with our passion and thought , be leave without the conception of God a Creator , and without a conception of what be good , and without an explanation of moral evil !
' try to build up anything without these conception !
' we destroy because we have our fill spiritually .
we be child indeed !
' whence come the joyful knowledge I have in common with the peasant , and which alone give I peace of mind ?
where do I get it ?
' I , educate in the conception of God , as a Christian , having fill my life with the spiritual blessing Christianity give I , brimful of these blessing and live by they , I , like a child , not understand they , destroy they – that is , I wish to destroy that by which I live .
but as soon as an important moment of life come , like child when they be cold and hungry , I go to he , and even less than the child whose mother scold they for their childish mischief do I feel that my childish attempt to kick because I be fill should be reckon against I .
' yes , what I know , I know not by my reason but because it have be give to I , reveal to I , and I know it in my heart by faith in the chief thing which the Church proclaim .
' the Church ? the Church ? '
Levin repeat to himself . he turn over , and lean on his elbow begin look at a herd of cattle in the distance approach the river on the other side .
' but can I believe in all that the Church profess ? ' he ask himself , test himself by everything which might destroy his present peace of mind .
he purposely think of those teaching of the Church which always seem most strange to he , and that try he .
' the Creation . – but how do I account for existence ?
by existence !
by nothing ! – the devil and sin ? – and how do I explain evil ? ...
a Saviour ? ...
' but I know nothing , nothing ! and can know nothing but what be tell to I and to everybody . '
and it now seem to he that there be not one of the dogma of the Church which could disturb the principal thing – faith in God , in goodness , as the sole vocation of man .
each of the Church 's doctrine might be represent by faith in serve truth rather than serve one 's personal need .
and each of they not only do not infringe that belief but be necessary for the fulfilment of the chief miracle ever recur on earth : the possibility of every one , million of most diverse people , sage and idiot , child and old man , peasant , Lvov , Kitty , beggar and king , indubitably understand one and the same thing , and form that life of the spirit which alone be worth live for and which alone we prize .
lie on his back he be now gaze at the high cloudless sky .
' do not I know that that be infinite space , and not a rounded vault ?
but however I may screw my eye and strain my sight , I can not help see it round and limited , and despite my knowledge of it as limitless space I be indubitably right when I see a firm blue vault , and more right than when I strain to see beyond it . '
Levin cease to think , and only as it be hearken to mystic voice that seem to be joyously and earnestly discuss something .
' can this really be faith ? ' he wonder , afraid to believe in his happiness . ' my God , I thank Thee ! ' he utter , repress his rise sobs , and wipe away with both hand the tear that fill his eye .
LEVIN looked straight before HIM , and see the herd of cattle and then his trap and his horse Raven and the coachman who , having drive up to the cattle , be speak to the herdsman ; after that , close by , he hear the sound of wheel and the snorting of a well - fed horse ; but he be so engrossed in his thought that he do not wonder why the coachman be come for he .
that occur to he only when the coachman drive up and call to he .
' the mistress have send I !
your brother and another gentleman have come ! '
Levin get into the trap and take the rein .
as if just awaken from a dream , it be long before he could collect his thought .
he look at the well - feed horse , lather between its leg and on its neck where the rein chafe it – look at Ivan the coachman sit beside he , and remember that he have be expect his brother , that his wife be probably disturb at his long absence , and he try to guess who the visitor that have come with his brother might be .
his brother , his wife , and the unknown visitor appear in a different light to he now .
it seem to he that his relation with every one would now be change .
' there will be no dispute ; with Kitty never any quarrel again ; with the visitor , whoever he may be , I shall be amiable and kind ; and with the servant , with Ivan , everything will be different . '
tightly hold in the good horse , who snort impatiently and pull at the rein , Levin keep turn to glance at Ivan , who sit beside he not know what to do with his unoccupied hand and continually push down his shirt as the wind blow it out .
Levin try to think of some pretext for begin a conversation with he . he want to say that it be a pity Ivan have pull the saddle - girth so tight , but that would have sound like a reproof , and Levin desire an amicable conversation .
but he could think of nothing else to say . ' bear to the right , sir , there be a stump there , ' say the coachman , take hold of the rein .
' please leave it alone and do not teach I ! ' say Levin , annoy at the coachman 's interference .
just as it always do , interference vex he , and he immediately feel how wrong have be his conclusion that his spiritual condition could at once alter his manner when confront with reality .
when they be still a quarter of a verst from the house , Levin see Grisha and Tanya run toward he .
' Uncle Kostya !
Mama be come and Grandpapa and Sergius Ivanich , and some one else ! ' they cry , clamber into the trap .
' who else ? '
' an awfully dreadful man !
and he go like that with his hand , ' say Tanya , stand up in the trap and mimic Katavasov .
' young or old ? ' ask Levin with a laugh , as Tanya 's gesture remind he of some one .
' oh , if only it be not some one disagreeable ! ' he think .
as soon as he have turn the corner of the road and see those who be approach he at once recognize Katavasov in a straw hat , wave his arm just as Tanya have represent .
Katavasov be very fond of talk about philosophy , have a conception of it which he have acquire from naturalist who have never study it , and in Moscow Levin have latterly have many dispute with he .
one of those dispute , in which Katavasov evidently think he have be the victor , be the first thing Levin remember when he recognize he .
' but I will not now on any account dispute or express my opinion lightly , ' he think .
after alight from the trap and welcome his brother and Katavasov , Levin ask where Kitty be .
' she have take Mitya to Kola , ' which be a wood not far from the house .
' she want to let he sleep there ; it be so hot in the house , ' say Dolly .
Levin always advise his wife not to take the child into the wood , consider it dangerous , and this news be disagreeable to he .
' she wander about with he from place to place , ' say the old Prince with a smile . ' I advise she to try take he to the ice - cellar ! '
' she mean to come to the apiary .
she think you be there .
we be go there , ' say Dolly .
' well , and what be you do ? ' ask Koznyshev , lag behind with his brother .
' oh , nothing particular .
busy with the estate as usual , ' answer Levin . ' have you come for a good stay ?
we expect you long ago . '
' for about a fortnight .
I have a lot to do in Moscow . '
at these word the brother ' eye meet , and Levin – in spite of the desire he always feel , and now more than ever , for friendly and especially for simple relation with his brother – feel ill at ease while look at he .
he drop his own eye , not know what to say .
mentally review the subject that might interest Koznyshev and divert he from the serbian war and the Slavonic Question , at which he have hint when mention his work in Moscow , Levin ask about Koznyshev 's book .
' have any review of your book appear ? ' he ask .
Koznyshev smile at the obvious intent of the question .
' no one concern himself with it , and I least of all , ' he reply . ' look there , Darya Alexandrovna ! it be go to rain , ' he add , point with his umbrella to some white cloud that have appear above the aspen tree .
and those word be enough to re - establish between the brother the not exactly hostile , but cold , relation which Levin so wish to avoid .
Levin join Katavasov .
' how right you be to come ! ' he say .
' I have long be mean to !
now we will have some talk , and we will see !
have you read Spencer ? '
' no , I have not finish he , ' reply Levin . ' however , I do not need he now . '
' how be that ?
that be interesting !
why not ? '
' well , I have finally convince myself that I sha not find solution of the question I be concerned about in he , or in people of his kind .
now ... '
but he be suddenly strike by the calm and cheerful expression of Katavasov 's face , and feel so sorry to lose the spiritual condition which he be evidently spoil by his conversation , that recollect his resolution he cease speak .
' however , we will have a talk later on , ' he say . ' if we be go to the apiary , it be this way , along this path , ' he add , address the whole party .
when by the narrow footpath they have reach the unmown glade cover on one side by a thick growth of bright John - and - Maries , with tall spread bush of dark green sneezewort between they , Levin ask his guest to sit down in the deep cool shade of the young aspen – upon a bench and some tree stump specially arrange for visitor to the apiary who might be afraid of bee – while he go to the hut to fetch bread , cucumber , and fresh honey for the grow - up people as well as for the child .
try to make as few brusque movement as possible and listen to the bee that fly past he more and more often , he go along the path to the hut .
at the very entrance a bee become entangled in his beard and begin buzz , but he carefully liberate it .
he go into the shady lobby and from a peg in the wall take down his veil , put it on , and with his hand deep in his pocket enter the fence - in apiary where – stand in regular row and tie with bast to stake – in the middle of a space where the grass have be mow stand the old beehive , [ hollow - out stump of tree place upright . ] every one familiar to he , and each with a history of its own , while along the wattle fence stand the new hive with the swarm hive that year .
in front of the hive , flicker before his eye and circle and flutter over the same spot , play bee and drone , and between they fly the work bee always to or from the wood with the blossom lime tree , fetch and bring back their load .
in his ear ring incessantly a variety of sound : now of a busy work bee fly swiftly past , now of a buzz idle drone , then of the excited bee sentinel guard their treasure from a foe and prepare to sting .
on the other side of the fence an old man be make a hoop and do not notice Levin , who stop in the middle of the apiary without call he .
he be glad of this opportunity to be alone and recover from reality , which have already so lower his spiritual condition .
he remember that he have already get angry with Ivan , treat his brother coldly , and speak heedlessly to Katavasov .
' can it possibly have be but a momentary mood that will pass without leave a trace ? ' he wonder .
but at that instant return into that mood , he feel with joy that something new and important have occur within he .
reality have temporarily veil the spiritual tranquillity he have find , but it remain with he .
just as the bee , now circle round he , threaten he and distract his attention , deprive he of complete physical calm and force he to shrink to avoid they , so the care that have beset he from the moment he get into the trap have deprive he of spiritual freedom ; but that continue only so long as they surround he .
and as , in spite of the bee , his physical power remain intact , so his newly realize spiritual power be intact also .
' KOSTYA ! do you know with whom Sergius Ivanich travel come here ? ' say dolly , after she have distribute cucumber and honey among the child .
' with Vronsky ! he be on his way to Serbia . '
' yes , and not alone , but be take a squadron at his own expense ! ' say Katavasov .
' that be like he , ' say Levin . ' but be volunteer really still go ? ' he add with a glance at Koznyshev .
Koznyshev do not reply , but with the blunt side of a knife carefully extract from a bowl in which lie a wedge of white honeycomb a live bee that have stick in the run honey .
' yes , I should think so !
you should have see what go on at the station yesterday ! ' say Katavasov , audibly bite into a cucumber .
' well , how be one to understand it ?
in heaven 's name , Sergius Ivanich , explain to I where all these volunteer be go and whom they be fight , ' say the old Prince , evidently continue a conversation that have be start during Levin 's absence .
' the Turks ! ' answer Koznyshev , quietly smile , having extract the bee which , black with honey , move its leg helplessly . as he shift it from the knife to a firm aspen leaf .
' but who have declare war on Turkey ?
Ivan Ivanich Ragozov and the Countess Lydia Ivanovna , assist by Madame Stahl ? '
' no one have declare war , but people sympathize with their suffer neighbour and wish to help they , ' reply Koznyshev .
' but the Prince be not talk of help , ' interpose Levin , take his father - in - law 's side , ' but of war !
he say that private people can not take part in war without the consent of the Government . '
' Kostya , look ! here be a bee !
really , we shall get sting ! ' cry Dolly , wave away a wasp .
' but that be not a bee , it be a wasp , ' say Levin .
' well , and what be your theory ? ' ask Katavasov with a smile , evidently challenge Levin to a discussion . ' why have private individual no right ? '
' my theory be this : on the one hand war be such a bestial , cruel and terrible affair , that no single man – not to speak of a Christian – can take on himself personally the responsibility for begin a war . it can only be do by a government , which be summon to it and be bring to it inevitably .
on the other hand , by law and by common sense , in the affair of State and especially in the matter of war , citizen renounce their personal will . '
Koznyshev and Katavasov , ready with their rejoinder , begin speak both together .
' that be just the point , my dear fellow , that case may arise when the government do not fulfil the will of its citizen and then Society announce its own will , ' say Katavasov .
but Koznyshev evidently do not approve of this reply .
he frown at Katavasov 's word and say something different .
' it be a pity you put the question that way .
there be no declaration of war in this case , but simply an expression of human , christian feeling .
our brother by blood and religion be be kill .
well , say they be not even our brother or co - religionist , but simply child , woman , and old people ; one 's feeling be outraged , and Russians hasten to help to stop those horror .
imagine that you be go along a street and see a tipsy man beat a woman or a child ; I think you would not stop to ask whether war have or have not be declare against that man , but you would rush at he and defend the victim ! '
' but I would not kill the man , ' reply Levin .
' yes , you would . '
' I do not know .
if I see such a thing , I might yield to my instinctive feeling ; I can not say beforehand .
but there be no such instinctive feeling about the oppression of the Slavs , nor can there be . '
' perhaps you have none , but other have , ' say Koznyshev with a dissatisfied frown . ' among the people there live tradition of Orthodox Christians suffer under the yoke of the " Infidel Mussulman . "
the people have hear of their brother ' suffering , and have speak out . '
' perhaps , ' say Levin evasively , ' but I do not see it . I myself be one of the people , and I do not feel it . '
' nor do I , ' say the Prince . ' I be live abroad and read the paper , and must own that I could not at all understand why , even before the bulgarian atrocity , all Russians suddenly grow so fond of their slavonic brother , while I do not feel any love for they .
I be much grieve and think I be a monster or that the Karlsbad water have that effect on I !
but on get back I be relieve , for I see that there be other besides I who be only interested in Russia and not in their brother - Slavs .
Constantine be one . '
' personal opinion do not count in this matter ; ' say Koznyshev . ' it be not an affair of personal opinion , when all Russia – the people – have express its will . '
' but , forgive I , I do not see it .
the people know nothing about it , ' say the Prince .
' oh , Papa ! do not they ? and on Sunday , in church ? ' remark Dolly , who have be follow the conversation . ' please bring a towel , ' she say to the old man , who be look smilingly at the child . ' it be impossible that all ... '
' but what be there in church on Sunday ?
the priest be order to read it .
he do so .
the people understand nothing , but they sigh as they always do during a sermon , ' continue the Prince . ' they be tell that there would be a collection in the church for a soul - save object , so they each take out a kopek and give it , but what it be for – they do not know ! '
' the people can not help know . a consciousness of their destiny always exist in the people , and at moment like the present it become clear to they , ' say Koznyshev positively , glance at the old beekeeper .
the handsome old man , with a black beard turn grey in place and thick silvery hair , stand motionless with a bowl of honey in his hand , gaze kindly and calmly down from his height at the gentlefolk , clearly neither understand they nor wish to understand .
' that be just so , ' he say to Koznyshev , and move his head significantly .
' yes , you would well ask he !
he neither know nor think about it , ' say Levin . ' have you hear about the war , Mikhaylich ? ' he ask , address the old man .
' what they read in the church ?
what do you think ? Ought we to fight for the Christians ? '
' why should we think ?
Alexander Nikolayevich , the Emperor , have think for we , and will think for we on all matter .
he can see well ...
shall I bring some more bread and give the laddie a bit ? ' he ask Dolly , point to Grisha , who be finish his crust .
' I have no need to ask , ' say Koznyshev . ' we have see , and still see , hundred and hundred of man who give up everything to serve the righteous cause , and who come from all end of Russia and openly and clearly express their thought and aim .
they bring their - mite , or go themselves , and say straight out why they do it .
what do that mean ? '
' it mean , it seem to I , ' say Levin , begin to get excited , ' that in a nation of eighty million there can always be find not hundred , as be now the case , but ten of thousand of man who have lose their social position , happy - go - lucky people who be always ready to go ... into Pugachev 's robber band [ Pugachev be the leader of a very serious rebellion in the reign of Catherine the Great . ] or to Khiva , or to Serbia ... '
' I tell you it be not hundred , and not the happy - go - lucky people , but the good representative of the people ! ' say Koznyshev , as irritably as if he be defend the last of his possession . ' and the donation ?
there at any rate the whole people directly express its will . '
' that word people be so indefinite , ' say Levin . ' clerk in district office , schoolmaster , and one out of a thousand peasant , may know what it be all about .
the rest of the eighty million , like Mikhaylich , not only do not express their will , but have not the least idea what it be they have to express it about !
what right have we then to say it be the will of the people ? '
KOZNYSHEV , an EXPERIENCED DIALECTICIAN , do not rejoin but immediately turn the conversation into another region .
' well , if you want to gauge the national spirit arithmetically , of course that be very difficult to do !
voting have not be introduce in our country , and can not be because it do not express the people 's will , but there be other mean .
it be feel in the air , it be feel by the heart .
not to mention the undercurrent that have stir in the motionless sea of the nation and which be evident to every unprejudiced person , look at Society in the narrow sense !
the most divergent party in the intellectual world , previously so hostile to one another , have all merge into one .
all difference be at an end , and all the social organ say one and the same thing , all have feel an elemental force that have seize they and carry they all in one direction . '
' yes , all the paper say the same thing , ' say the Prince , ' that be true .
so much the same that they be just like frog before a storm !
they prevent our hearing anything else ! '
' frogs or no frog ... I do not publish a newspaper and do not want to defend they , but I be speak of the unanimity of the intelligent world , ' say Koznyshev , turn to his brother . Levin be go to reply , but the old Prince interrupt he .
' about that unanimity , something else can be say , ' rejoin the Prince . ' there be my son - in - law , Stephen Arkadyevich , you know he .
he have now get the post of Member of the Committee of a Commission of something or other – I do not remember . anyhow , there be nothing to do there .
well , Dolly , it be no secret ! and the salary be eight thousand . you just ask he if his work will be any use , and he will prove to you that it be most necessary !
and he be a truthful man , but one can not help believe in the usefulness of eight thousand rouble . '
' yes , he ask I to tell Darya Alexandrovna that he have get the post , ' say Koznyshev discontentedly , consider that what the Prince be say be not to the point .
' so it be with the unanimity of the Press .
it have be explain to I : as soon as there be a war their revenue be double .
how can they help consider that the fate of the people and the Slavs – and all the rest of it ? '
' there be many paper I do not like , but that be unfair , ' say Koznyshev .
' I would make only one stipulation , ' continue the Prince . ' Alphonse Karr put it very well , before the war with Prussia .
" you think war unavoidable .
very well !
he who preach war – off with he in a special legion to the assault , to the attack , in front of everybody else!"- '
' the editor would be fine ! ' remark Katavasov , laugh loudly , and picture to himself the editor of his acquaintance in that choose legion .
' oh , but they would run away , ' say Dolly , ' and only be a hindrance . '
' and if they run , put grapeshot behind they , or cossack with whip ! ' say the Prince .
' that be a joke , and excuse I , Prince , not a good joke , ' say Koznyshev .
' I do not see that it be a joke , that ... ' begin Levin , but Koznyshev interrupt he .
' every member of Society be call upon to do his proper task , ' he say . ' and man of thought perform theirs by express public opinion .
the unanimous and complete expression of public opinion be a service render by the Press , and be also a gratify phenomenon .
twenty year ago we should have be silent , but now we hear the voice of the russian people , who be ready to arise as one man and to sacrifice themselves for their oppressed brother . that be a great step and a sign of power ! '
' but it be not a question of sacrifice themselves only , but of kill Turks , ' remark Levin timidly . ' the people sacrifice and be ready to sacrifice for the good of their soul , but not for murder , ' he add , involuntarily connect the conversation with the thought that so engross he .
' what be that : " for their soul " ?
you know that expression be a puzzle one for a naturalist .
what be a soul ? ' Katavasov inquire with a smile .
' oh , you know ! '
' no , I swear I have not the slight idea ! ' say Katavasov , laugh loudly .
' " I come not to bring peace , but a sword , " say Christ , ' rejoin Koznyshev , from his own standpoint quote quite simply , as if it be quite comprehensible , the very passage from the gospel that always perplex Levin more than any other .
' that be just so ! ' repeat the old man , who be stand near by , answer a glance that be accidentally throw at he .
' no , my dear sir ! you be beat ! completely beat ! ' shout Katavasov merrily .
Levin flush with annoyance , not at be beat , but because he have not refrain from the dispute .
' no , I must not dispute with they , ' he think . ' they be clothe in impenetrable armour , and I be naked . '
he see that it be not possible to convince his brother and Katavasov , and still less do he see any possibility of himself agree with they .
what they advocate be that same pride of intellect that have nearly ruin he .
he could not agree that some dozen of man , among whom be his brother , have the right to assert , on the strength of what they be tell by some hundred of grandiloquent Volunteers who come to the city , that they and the newspaper express the will and the opinion of the people : an opinion , moreover , which find expression in vengeance and murder .
he could not agree with this , because he neither see the expression of those thought in the people among whom he live , nor do he find any such thought in himself ( and he could not consider himself as other than one of those who constitute the russian people ) . above all , he could not agree because he , together with the people , do not know and could not know wherein lay the general welfare , but know definitely that the attainment of this welfare be only possible by a strict fulfilment of the law of goodness which be reveal to every man , and therefore could not desire or preach war for any kind of general aim .
he say the same as Mikhaylich and the people who express their thought in the legend of the invitation to the Varyags [ the Norse chief who , at the dawn of russian history , be invite by the slav tribe of Russia to come and rule over they and establish order . ] : ' come and rule over we !
we joyfully promise complete obedience .
all labour , all humiliation , all sacrifice we take upon ourselves ; but we will not judge or decide ! '
but the people now , accord to his brother , be renounce that exemption they have purchase at so high a price .
he want to ask why , if public opinion be an infallible judge , be a Revolution and a Commune " ' not as lawful as the movement in favour of the Slavs ?
but all these be thought that could not decide anything .
one thing could be see indubitably , namely , that this dispute be irritate his brother at the moment , and that therefore it be wrong to continue it , so Levin cease to argue and draw his visitor ' attention to the cloud that be gather and to the fact that they have well get home before the rain begin .
the PRINCE and KOZNYSHEV GOT into the TRAP and drive off ; the rest of the party , hasten their step , go home on foot .
but the cloud , now white now blacker , approach so rapidly that it be necessary to hurry still more to reach home before the rain come .
the fore part of the cloud , low and black like sooty smoke , rush with unusual swiftness across the sky .
when they be still about two hundred pace from the house the wind have already rise , so that at any moment a downpour might be expect .
the child , with frightened and joyful yell , run on in front .
Dolly , struggle with difficulty with the skirt that clung to her leg , no long walk but run , her eye fix on the child .
the man , hold their hat , go on with long stride .
they be just reach the porch when a large drop break against the edge of the iron gutter .
the child , follow by the grown - up , run , talk merrily , under the shelter of the roof .
' and Catherine Alexandrovna ? ' [ speak to the servant Levin give Kitty her full name . ] Levin ask Agatha Mikhaylovna , who , carry shawl and plaid , meet they in the hall .
' we think she be with you , ' she answer .
' and Mitya ? '
' in Kolok , I expect , and Nurse be with they . '
Levin snatch up the plaid and rush to the Kolok .
in that short time the centre of the cloud have already so move over the sun that it be as dark as during an eclipse .
the wind . obstinately , as if insist on have its way , push Levin back and , tear the leave and blossom off the lime tree and rudely and strangely uncover the white branch of birch , bend everything in one direction : the acacias , the flower , the dock leave , the grass , and the crest of the tree .
the girl who have be work in the garden rush screech under the roof of the servant ' quarter .
a white curtain of pour rain be already descend over the distant wood and half the neighbouring field , and be advance rapidly toward the Kolok .
the moisture of the rain , shatter into minute drop , fill the air .
lower his head and fighting against the wind which be tear the plaid out of his hand , Levin have almost reach the Kolok and could see something gleam white behind an oak , when suddenly everything burst into flame , the earth seem on fire , and just overhead the vault of heaven seem to crack .
when he open his dazzle eye the first thing Levin see with horror through the dense curtain of rain that now separate he from the Kolok be the strangely alter position of the green crown of a familiar oak in the middle of the wood .
' have it be strike ? ' he have barely time to think when , with quick and quick motion , the crown of the oak disappear behind the other tree , and he hear the crash of a big tree fall on to other tree .
the flash of lightning , the sound of thunder , and the sudden cold sensation of his body that be be drench , merge for Levin into one feeling of horror .
' oh God !
oh God ! only not on they ! ' he say .
and though it occur to he at once how senseless be his prayer that they should not be kill by the oak that have already fall , he repeat it , know that he could do nothing well than utter that senseless prayer .
having run to the spot where they generally go , he do not find they there .
they be at the other end of the wood , under an old lime tree , and be call he .
two figure in dark dress ( they have be light - colour before ) stand bend over something .
they be Kitty and the nurse .
the rain be already pass and it be grow light when Levin reach they .
the bottom of the nurse 's dress be dry , but Kitty 's dress be wet through and clung close to she .
though the rain have stop , they be still stand in the same posture that they have adopt when the storm begin : they stand lean over a perambulator with a green hood .
' alive ?
safe ?
thank God ! ' he mutter , run up to they and splash through the puddle with one shoe half off and full of water .
Kitty 's wet and rosy face be turn to he , timidly smile beneath her bedraggle hat .
' well , be not you ashamed of yourself ?
I do not understand how one can be so imprudent ! ' he reproach his wife in his vexation .
' really , it be not my fault .
I be just wish to go when he become restless .
we have to change his thing .
we have hardly ... ' Kitty begin excuse herself .
Mitya be safe and dry and sleep undisturbed .
' well , thank God !
I do not know what I be say ! '
they collect the wet baby - thing , and the nurse take the baby in her arm and carry he .
Levin walk beside his wife , feel guilty at having be vex , and stealthily , so that the nurse should not see , press Kitty 's hand .
throughout the WHOLE DAY , amid most varied conversation in which he take part only with what one may call the external side of his mind , Levin , despite his disillusionment with the change that should have take place in he , do not cease to be joyfully aware of the fullness of his heart .
after the rain it be too wet to go out walk , besides which the thunder - cloud have not clear from the horizon , and , now here now there , pass thunder and darken along the border of the sky .
so the whole company spend the rest of the day at home .
no more dispute arise ; on the contrary , after dinner every one be in the good of spirit .
First Katavasov amuse the lady with his original joke , which on first acquaintance with he always pleased people , and afterwards , encourage by Koznyshev , he recount his very interesting observation on the difference in character , and even in physiognomy , between male and female house - fly and on their life .
Koznyshev too be in good spirit and at tea , lead on by his brother , expound his view of the future of the eastern question , and do it so simply and well that every one listen attentively .
only Kitty could not hear he to the end , she be call away to bath Mitya .
a few minute after she have go , Levin too be call to she in the nursery .
leave his tea and regret the interruption in the interesting conversation , yet uneasy as to why he be send for , as this only happen on important occasion ; Levin go to the nursery .
Though Koznyshev 's plan , which Levin have not hear to the end – of how a liberated slavonic world , forty million strong , should , together with Russia , commence a new epoch in history – interest he very much as something quite new to he , and though he be disturb by curiosity and anxiety as to why he have be summon , yet as soon as he have leave the drawing - room and be alone , he immediately recollect his thought of the morning .
and all these consideration of the importance of the slavonic element in universal history seem to he so insignificant in comparison with what be go on in his soul , that he immediately forget they all and return to the frame of mind he have be in that morning .
he do not now recall , as he have do before , the whole course of his thought ( he do not now need to ) .
he at once return to the feeling that direct he , which be relate to those thought , and he find that feeling in his soul yet more powerful and definite than before .
now it be not as it use to be with he when he . have invent way of tranquillizing himself and have be oblige to recapitulate the whole train of reflection in order to arrive at the feeling .
now , on the contrary , the feeling of joy and tranquillity be more vivid than before and his thought could not keep pace with they .
he go through the verandah and look at two star that have appear on the already darken sky , and suddenly he remember : ' yes , as I look at the sky I think that the vault I see be not a delusion , but then there be something I do not think out , something I hide from myself , ' he think . ' but whatever it be , it can not have be a refutation .
I need only think it over , and all will become clear . '
just as he be enter the nursery he remember what it be he have hide from himself .
it be that if the principal proof of the existence of a deity be his revelation of what be good , why be that revelation confine to the Christian Church alone ?
what relation to that revelation have the Buddhist and the Mahomedan faith , which also teach and do good ?
it seem to he that he have a reply to that question ; but he have no time to express it to himself before he enter the nursery .
Kitty be stand , with her sleeve roll up , beside the bath in which the baby be splash about , and hear her husband 's step she turn her face toward he , beckon he with a smile .
with one hand support the head of the plump kick baby who float on his back , with the other she squeeze the water from a sponge over he , regularly exert the muscle of her arm .
' there , come and look ! look ! ' she say when her husband come up .
' Agatha Mikhaylovna be right . he do recognize ! '
the point be that Mitya have that day obviously and undoubtedly begin to recognize his own people .
directly Levin approach the bath he be show an experiment which succeed perfectly .
the cook , who have be call specially for the purpose , bent over he .
he frown and move his head from side to side in a protest way .
Kitty bend over he , and his face light up with a smile , he press his hand into the sponge and bubble with his lip , produce such a contented and peculiar sound that not only Kitty and the nurse , but Levin too go into unexpected rapture .
the nurse lift the baby out of the bath with one hand and pour fresh water over he , then he be wrap up and dry , and after a penetrate yell he be give to his mother .
' well , I be glad you be begin to be fond of he , ' say Kitty to her husband , when with the child at her breast she have sit down in her usual place .
' I be very glad , for I be begin to be grieve about it .
you say you feel nothing for he . '
' no , do I say I feel nothing ?
I only say I be disillusioned . '
' what ! disillusion with he ? '
' not so much with he as with my own feeling ; I have expect more .
I have expect that , like a surprise , a new , pleasant feeling would awaken in I .
and then instead of that , nothing but repulsion and pity ... '
she listen attentively , replace on her slender finger , across the baby , the ring she have take off to bath Mitya .
' and above all , the anxiety and pity be far great than the pleasure .
but to - day , after that fright during the storm , I have realize how much I love he . '
Kitty brighten up with a smile .
' be you very frightened ? ' she ask . ' I be too , but to I it appear more dreadful now that it be past .
I shall go and look at that oak .
but how nice Katavasov be !
and in general the whole day have be so pleasant .
and you be so nice to your brother when you like ...
well , go to they .
it be always hot and steamy here after the bath . '
when ON leave the NURSERY Levin be alone , he at once remember the thought that have not seem quite clear .
instead of go back to the drawing - room , whence come the sound of voice , he stop on the verandah and lean on the balustrade gaze at the sky .
it have grow quite dark , and to the south , where he be look , the sky be clear .
the cloud be in the opposite direction .
there lightning flash and distant thunder roll .
Levin listen to the rhythmical dripping of raindrop from the lime tree in the garden , and look at a familiar triangular constellation and at the Milky Way which with its branch intersect it .
at every flash of lightning not only the milky way but even the bright star vanish ; but immediately afterwards they reappear in the same place , as if throw there by some unerring hand .
' well , what be perplex I ? ' Levin ask himself , feel in advance that the solution of his doubt , though as yet unknown to he , be already in his soul .
' yes , the one evident , indubitable manifestation of the deity be the law of goodness disclose to man by revelation , which I feel within myself and in the confession of which I do not so much unite myself as I be united , whether I will or not , with other people in one community of believer which be call the Church .
but the Jews , Mahomedans , Confucians , Buddhists – what of they ? ' he question , put to himself the query that seem to he dangerous . ' be it possible that those hundred of million of people be deprive of that high blessing , without which life have no meaning ? ' he ponder , but he immediately correct himself .
' but what be I ask about ? ' he say to himself . ' I be ask about the relation to the deity of all the different belief of mankind .
I be ask about the general revelation of God to the whole universe with all those cloudy nebulae .
what be I do ? to I personally , to my heart , have be indubitably reveal a knowledge unattainable by reasoning , and I obstinately wish to express that knowledge by reason and in word .
' do I not know that it be not the star that be move ? ' he ask himself , look at a bright planet that have already shift its position by the top branch of a birch tree . ' but I , watch the movement of the star , can not picture to myself the rotation of the earth and I be right in say that the star move .
' and could the astronomer understand and calculate anything if they take into their calculation the whole of the complicated and varied motion of the earth ?
all their wonderful conclusion as to the distance , weight , movement , and disturbance of the heavenly body be base on their visible movement round a stationary earth – on this very movement that be now before I , and which have be the same to million of people during the century , and that have be and will be the same and can always be verify .
and just as astronomer ' conclusion would be idle and uncertain be they not base on observation of the visible sky in relation to one meridian and one horizon , so would my conclusion be idle and uncertain be they not found on that understanding of goodness which be and will be the same always and for every one , and which have be reveal to I by Christianity and can always be verify in my soul .
the question of other creed and their relation to the deity I have not the right or possibility of decide . '
' oh , you 've not go ? ' suddenly ask Kitty , who be pass that way to the drawing - room . ' nothing have upset you , have it ? ' she inquire , peer attentively into his face by the starlight .
but she would not have be able to discern its expression have not a flash of lightning that efface the star light it up .
by the light of that flash she see the whole of his face and , notice that he be calm and happy , she smile at he .
' she understand , ' think he , ' she know what I be think about .
shall I tell she or not ?
yes , I will ... '
but just as he be go to speak , she begin :
' oh , Kostya !
be good and go to the corner room and see how they have arrange thing for Sergius Ivanich !
I can not very well do it myself .
have they put in the new washstand ? '
' yes , certainly I will , ' say Levin , stand upright and kiss she .
' no , I have well not tell she , ' he think when she have pass out before he . ' it be a secret , necessary and important for I alone , and inexpressible in word . '
' this new feeling have not change I , have not render I happy , nor suddenly illuminate I as I dream it would , but be just like my feeling for my son .
it have not be a surprise either .
but be it faith or not – I do not know what it be – this feeling have also enter imperceptibly through suffering and be firmly rooted in my soul .
' I shall still get angry with Ivan the coachman in the same way , shall dispute in the same way , shall inopportunely express my thought ; there will still be a wall between my soul 's holy of holy and other people ; even my wife I shall still blame for my own fear and shall repent of it . my reason will still not understand why I pray , but I shall still pray , and my life , my whole life , independently of anything that may happen to I , be every moment of it no long meaningless as it be before , but have an unquestionable meaning of goodness with which I have the power to invest it . '
