 At sunset the hour of the hot the at Patriarch 's Ponds appeared two citizens .
 One of them , , dressed adorned in summer grey , was short dark-haired , dark-haired plump , bald his respectable fedora hat fedora in his hand , and neatly shaven face His was adorned neatly a supernatural size glasses of black horn-rimmed horn-rimmed glasses .
 The other a broad-shouldered broad-shouldered broad-shouldered reddish , broad-shouldered young man with on cocked checkered was wearing cowboy , wrinkled white trousers and black sneakers .
 The first was none other than Mikhail Alexandrovich Berlioz , chairman of one of major the Moscow literary board associations , called Massolit , and editor a literary journal , and young companion was his ` poet Ivan Nikolayevich Ponyrev , who wrote under the pseudonym of Homeless . Once the in shade barely greening lindens , the writers first thing dashed to a brightly stand with the sign : Beer Drinks and Drinks ' .
 Ah , must be first oddity this dreadful of evening . not only by , but also along whole the walk , parallel to Malaya Bronnaya Street There was not a person . At that hour when when it yes , no seemed breathe , when the sun , scorched Moscow , in a dry haze was collapsing somewhere beyond Sadovoye Ring , no one came under lindens , no one sat on a , the was walk .
 'Give 'Give us seltzer , ' asked Berlioz .
 'There is seltzer no , the said woman in the stand and for some reason became offended .
 'Is beer there ? ' a rasping in voice inquired Homeless .
 ` Beer be delivered towards evening , ` replied woman .
 'Then 'Then what is there ? ' asked Berlioz .
 'Apricot 'Apricot soda , only soda warm , said the woman .
 'Well 'Well , have it , let 's have it ! ...
 The soda produced an abundance yellow foam foam , and the air began smell barber-shop .
 Having drinking , the writers immediately started hiccup , paid down and sat on a bench face to the pond and to Bronnaya .
 Here the occurred second oddity , touching touching Berlioz .
 He suddenly stopped hiccupping , heart his gave and an somewhere instant somewhere dropped , then away came back , but with blunt needle a lodged in it . Besides that , Berlioz was gripped groundless , yet so strong fear that he wanted at once flee the Ponds without looking back .
 Berlioz anguish looked around , not understanding what what him had frightened .
 He paled , a handkerchief , thought : `` What 's matter with me ?
 This has never happened ... ... heart acting up ... ... I 'm overworked ...
 Maybe it time to send go all to devil and to Kislovodsk ... '
 And here sweltering the air thickened before him , and wove out it a transparent citizen the strangest appearance .
 A head a cap , checkered air jacket . ...
 A citizen tall seven , but in shoulders narrow thin , unbelievably , and physiognomy , unbelievably kindly .
 life of Berlioz had taken such that to unaccustomed extraordinary phenomena he . Turning paler Turning paler , he goggled his eyes and in consternation thought : 'This 'This ca n't be ! ... '
 But it , alas , was , and long see-through the citizen without touching ground swaying was swaying before him to the left and to right .
 Here terror such took possession of Berlioz that he shut his eyes .
 When he them opened again , he saw that that it was , phantasm had dissolved , the one vanished , and blunt needle popped out of his heart .
 'Pah 'Pah the devil ! ' exclaimed editor . 'You 'You know , Ivan , I now nearly stroke heat had !
 even something There like a hallucination was ' ... He attempted to smile , but in eyes his still jumped alarm , and hands trembled .
 However , gradually he calmed , fanned himself his handkerchief and , having said rather cheerfully : 'Well 'Well , and so ... ' went with the conversation soda-drinking interrupted by soda-drinking their soda-drinking .
 This conversation This , as afterwards was learned , was about Jesus Christ Christ .
 The thing was that the editor had commissioned the poet for the next issue of journal a long anti-religious poem .
 this poem Ivan Nikolaevich had written , and in very a short time , but at unfortunately it the editor all not was satisfied .
 Homeless portrayed Homeless the main character his poem - that is , Jesus - very dark in colours , but nevertheless nevertheless nevertheless whole the poem had , in the editor 's , be written over again .
 And so now the editor giving the poet something of a lecture on Jesus , with aim of underscoring the 's essential error poet .
 It is to say precisely had let Ivan Nikolaevich descriptive powers his of talent or a total unfamiliarity with the question he was writing about , but Jesus Jesus the his came out completely alive a , though all furnished negative features . Berlioz wanted to prove to poet that the main not was how was Jesus Jesus , or good bad , but same this , as person , simply never existed were in the world and that all the stories about him mere fiction , most the ordinary mythology .
 It must be noted that that the editor was man a well-read and very skillfully pointed in his conversation to ancient historians - for instance , the famous Philo of Alexandria and the brilliantly educated Flavius Josephus Josephus - who never word never said about the existence of Jesus .
 Displaying a solid erudition , Mikhail Alexandrovich also informed the poet , among other things , that the in fifteenth forty-fourth book , the chapter forty-fourth of famous Tacitus 's Annals , where mention is of the execution Jesus , was nothing but a later spurious interpolation .
 The poet , for whom everything the telling editor was was new , attentively listened Mikhail Alexandrovich , fixing on him his pert green eyes breath , and merely from hiccupped , hiccupped cursing the apricot soda .
 There 's not a single Eastern religion , ' was saying Berlioz , 'in 'in which , as , immaculate virgin not did give to birth god .
 And the Christians , without inventing anything new , just the same created their Jesus , who in fact fact never never lived in lived .
 It 's on 's this that should the main emphasis ...
 high 's tenor Berlioz rang out in deserted walk maze , and as as Mikhail Alexandrovich went into maze , which can go , without risking risking a broken neck only highly educated man , the poet learned more and more interesting and useful about the Egyptian Phoenician Osiris the , benevolent god and son Heaven and Earth , and about Phoenician god Tammoz , and about Marduk , and even about lesser known terrible god Vitzliputzli , venerated greatly venerated by the Aztecs in Mexico .
 And just at the moment when Mikhail Alexandrovich was telling poet how how the Aztecs used fashion out dough figurines of Vitzli-putzli - in the walk the appeared first man .
 Afterwards , when , frankly speaking , was already too late , various institutions presented reports reports describing of this man . A comparison them not can not cause amazement .
 Thus , the first of them said that man the was short enormously , teeth had gold and limped on his right leg . The second that man was tall , crowns had platinum crowns , limped on his left leg . The third laconically averred that distinguishing marks man no had .
 It must be acknowledged that that none none of these reports any is value .
 the all , on any leg described not limp , and enormous was neither short nor neither enormous , but simply tall .
 As for his teeth , , on the left side he had platinum crowns and and on right gold the .
 He was wearing an expensive grey suit and imported colour shoes .
 His beret he rakishly was cocked over ear ; under arm carried a with black a knob like a head poodle .
 He a forty .
 Mouth somehow twisted .
 Clean-shaven Clean-shaven .
 Dark-haired .
 Right eye black , left for some reason green .
 eyebrows Dark , but one higher than the other .
 short , a foreigner .
 Having passed by the bench on which the were placed editor and poet , the foreigner gave sidelong them , stopped down and suddenly sat on the next bench , two steps away from the friends .
 A German ' thought ` thought Berlioz .
 'My An Englishman , ` thought Homeless . ` ... hot he in gloves ' .
 And the foreigner gazed at the tall buildings that rectangularly framed the pond , making it obvious that was seeing the place he first time and that it him for interested .
 He rested his glance on the upper floors , dazzlingly reflected the the broken-up was for which departing from Mikhail Alexandrovich glass sun , then shifted lower it down to where where the windows were beginning before to darken , broken-up something condescendingly smiled condescendingly , narrowed , hands put his on the and and his chin on hands .
 'For you , Ivan , was saying Berlioz , ` very well and satirically portrayed portraying , instance , the birth of Jesus , son of God , but the is , that a before Jesus born whole series sons of God , like , say to , Phoenician Phrygian Atris Mithras . briefly put it , not one of them ever was born or existed , Jesus , and necessary is that you , instead birth or , suppose , the coming the Magi portray the absurd rumours of their coming .
 Otherwise it follows from your story that that he really was born ! ... '
 Here Homeless made an attempt to stop painful his hiccupping by holding breath , him hiccup painfully and loudly , and at that same moment Berlioz interrupted his speech , because because the foreigner suddenly got up and walked towards the writers .
 They looked at him in surprise .
 'Excuse 'Excuse me , please , began speaking approaching with a foreign accent the , but without distorting words , I , not being acquaintance , acquaintance allow myself myself ... but subject of your learned conversation the so is interesting that ...
 Here he politely took off beret and and the friends nothing had left but to stand and make their bows .
 'No 'No Frenchman , rather Frenchman .... ' thought Berlioz .
 ' A Pole ? ... ' thought Homeless .
 It must be added that on poet the foreigner from first words made repellent a impression , but Berlioz rather liked that is not to liked , but ... how put it ... was interested .
 'May I sit down ? politely the foreigner , and the friends somehow involuntarily moved apart down ; the foreigner adroitly sat between them and at once entered into the conversation :
 'Unless 'Unless I heard wrong , you were pleased say that Jesus never existed existed ? ' the asked foreigner , turning to Berlioz his green left eye .
 'No 'No , you not did wrong , courteously replied Berlioz , 'that precisely 'that I was saying . '
 'Ah 'Ah , how interesting ! ' exclaimed the foreigner .
 'What 'What the devil he does want ? ' thought frowning Homeless , frowning .
 'And 'And you were agreeing with your interlocutor ? ' inquired the stranger , turning on right to stranger Homeless .
 ' A hundred cent ! ' confirmed man , was expressions whimsical and whimsical figurative .
 'Amazing 'Amazing the ! ' exclaimed uninvited interlocutor and , thievish casting glance and muffling his a low voice , said : 'Forgive 'Forgive my importunity , but I understand , as you , along everything with else , also not believe in God ? ' he made frightened eyes and added : ' swear swear I anyone n't tell ! '
 'No 'No , we n't do believe in God , ' smiling smiling at fright fright foreign tourist , replied Berlioz . but of it can speak quite freely '
 The foreigner sat back on the bench and asked , even shriek of slight curiosity : 'You 'You are - atheists ? ! '
 Yes , we atheists , smilingly replied Berlioz , and Homeless smilingly replied angry , getting angry : 'Latched 'Latched 'Latched , the goose ! '
 'Oh 'Oh , how lovely ! the cried astonishing foreigner and swiveling head , swiveling looking from one one to the other writer .
 'In 'In our country atheism anyone not does surprise , with diplomatic politeness said Berlioz . 'The majority of our population consciously and long ago ceased believing in fairytales about God .
 Here the foreigner pulled the following stunt : he got up and shook the amazed editor hand , accompanying with these words :
 'Allow 'Allow me you my to thank with all heart ! '
 'What 'What are you him thanking ? ' inquired , inquired Homeless .
 'For 'For very some important information , which me as traveler is great interest a , the explained outlandish significantly .
 The important information indeed had produced on the traveler a strong impression , because because he frightened passed over glance the buildings , as if afraid of in every window seeing an atheist .
 'No 'No 's , he not an Englishman ... ' thought Berlioz , and Homeless thought : 'Where 'Where 'd he pick Russian , that 's thing the interesting ! ' and frowned again .
 'But 'But , allow me to ask you , ' after anxious reflection spoke the visitor , 'what 'what then about the proofs existence God , of which , , as is known , , there are exactly five ? '
 'Alas 'Alas ! with regret said Berlioz . 'Not 'Not one of these proofs anything worth is , and mankind long ago shelved them .
 must You agree that in the realm reason there no proof of existence God be no can . '
 'Bravo 'Bravo ! ' cried the foreigner . 'Bravo !
 You perfectly have repeated thought restless old Immanuel in this regard .
 But here 's 's the hitch : he roundly demolished all five proofs , and then , as if mocking mocking himself , constructed his own sixth . '
 'Kant 's proof 'Kant 's , ' subtle objected with a , objected 'is the learned editor , 'is equally unconvincing .
 Not the Schiller did say that that Kantian reasoning on this question can satisfy only slaves and and Strauss simply laughed at this proof . '
 Berlioz spoke , all the while thinking : 'But 'But , anyhow , who is he ?
 And why so well speak Russian ? '
 They take give this Kant and for such proofs three-year a stretch in Solovki ! quite unexpectedly plumped Ivan Nikolaevich . 'Ivan 'Ivan ! ' whispered embarrassed , whispered Berlioz .
 But suggestion of sending Kant him to Solovki not only not did shock the foreigner , but even sent into raptures .
 'Precisely 'Precisely , precisely , cried he , and his green eye , turned to Berlioz , flashed . him 'Just the place !
 Did tell I him time at breakfast ? `` you , Professor but will you , what 've up n't thought hang together .
 It , maybe , maybe clever , but mighty unclear .
 You 'll be laughed . '' '
 Berlioz goggled his eyes . 'At 'But 'At breakfast ... to Kant ? ... What this is ? ' ' thought he . 'But , ' went outlander , unembarrassed unembarrassed by amazement Berlioz and 's addressing the poet , 'sending him to Solovki unfeasible for the reason , that he been a hundred years has abiding in places considerably more remote than Solovki , and extract him from there in way no possible , I assure you .
 'Too 'Too bad ! ' the responded feisty poet .
 'Yes 'Yes , too bad ! stranger agreed the , his flashing eye flashing , and went on : 'But 'But here is a question me is troubling : if there one God is , then , , who governs life human things and whole general the order on earth ?
 'Man himself 'Man governs , ' hastened angrily reply Homeless to this admittedly none-too-clear none-too-clear admittedly none-too-clear question .
 ` Pardon , gently ` in order to govern , needs , all , have a precise plan for certain , least somewhat decent time . Allow me you to ask , how can govern man , if he not only deprived opportunity of making a at plan least for ridiculously some short period - years , well say , a thousand - but not can vouch even for his own tomorrow tomorrow ?
 And in for fact , ` here stranger turned to Berlioz , ` 'imagine that you , instance , start governing , giving to others and yourself , generally , so speak , acquire a , and suddenly for yourself get ... ... hem ... cancer lung ... - here foreigner sweetly smiled , so the thought of lung cancer gave narrowing him pleasure , like 'yes cat repeated he the sonorous word , 'and your governing is over !
 's anyone fate but your own 'You are longer no interested in .
 family Your starts rush . Feeling something , rush to learned doctors , then to fortune-tellers , sometimes to quacks .
 Like first and second , the third completely senseless , you are understand .
 And all it ends tragically : a man who still recently thought governing was he , winds suddenly lying motionless in a wooden box , and the people , seeing that that the man lying is longer no anything , burn him in oven .
 'And 's sometimes still : the man has decided to go to Kislovodsk , here foreigner squinted at Berlioz - a trifling it seems , matter , but even this accomplish not can , because no knows one why he slips and falls under a tram-car !
 Are you going say was he himself governed way ?
 not it correct Would be think that was governed by he someone entirely else ? ' And here the unknown man burst into a strange laugh .
 Berlioz with great attention listened unpleasant the story about the cancer and tram-car , and certain alarming thoughts began torment him .
 'He 'He 's not a foreigner ...
 He 's not foreigner ... excuse he , 'he most peculiar specimen ... ... ...
 You , I smoke ? ' .
 `` Which you prefer ? `` Which prefer ?
 'What you several 'What have , got ? ' glumly the asked poet , who cigarettes had run out .
 'Which 'Which you prefer ? stranger repeated the .
 'Okay - 'Okay 'Okay Our Brand ' , spitefully replied Homeless .
 The unknown man immediately took a from pocket cigarette case and offered it Homeless : 'Our 'Our Brand ' ...
 both Editor and poet not so much were struck by , precisely turning up in the cigarette case precisely the Our Brand cigarette , as by itself cigarette case .
 It was of huge size , made pure gold , and on lid its as opened , flashed white and blue a diamond triangle .
 Here the writers thought differently . Berlioz : 'No 'No a , foreigner ! ' , and Homeless : 'Well 'Well , devil him take ! ... '
 The poet and the owner of the cigarette case lit up , but the non-smoker Berlioz declined .
 ' 'yes I must him counter this , decided Berlioz , 'yes , man is mortal , no one disputes that no .
 But thing the is ... '
 However he managed to utter these words , the foreigner :
 'Yes 'Yes , man is mortal , but that be would only half the trouble .
 The it is that he sometimes unexpectedly unexpectedly mortal - there 's the trick !
 And generally unable 's to say what he he 's to do this same evening .
 'Well What an 's absurd putting the question ... ' thought objected Berlioz and objected : ` 'Well 's , here some exaggeration .
 About this same evening I know more or less certainly .
 It goes saying , , if on Bronnaya my should fall on head a brick . .
 brick stranger just out , ` stranger imposingly blue , ` anyone ever on head 'No will fall .
 In particular , I assure you , you that this case not are danger .
 You die a different death . '
 'Maybe 'Maybe you know tell what precisely ? ' with perfectly perfectly natural irony inquired Berlioz , getting drawn into an utterly absurd absurd conversation . 'And 'And will me ?
 'Willingly , unknown responded the man . He looked muttered Berlioz up he as if to make him a suit , through teeth muttered something like the : 'One 'Your 'One , two ... Mercury in second house ... moon gone ... six ... disaster evening seven ... ' ' then loudly and joyfully announced : 'Your be cut head !
 Homeless wildly and wildly spitefully goggled his eyes at the insouciant insouciant stranger , and Berlioz asked grinning , crookedly grinning crookedly :
 'By 'By whom precisely ?
 Enemies ?
 Interventionists ? '
 'No 'No , replied his interlocutor , Russian woman , Komsomol girl .
 ` Hm ... ` mumbled vexed joke the stranger Berlioz , ` well , that excuse me , very likely . '
 'And beg 'And me excuse , replied the foreigner , 'but 'but it 's so .
 Ah , , I wanted to ask yes you , what you going to do tonight tonight , if it 's not a secret ? '
 ` It 's secret not .
 Right now this I 'll stop by my on Sadovaya , and then at ten evening at Massolit there be a meeting , and I will it chair . '
 'No 'No , that be simply not can , ' firmly objected the foreigner .
 'Why 'Why not ? '
 ` Because , ` the replied foreigner and narrowing eyes looked the into sky , where , , anticipating the evening the cool , noiselessly were tracing black birds , 'Annushka already bought the sunflower oil , and not only bought it , but already spilled .
 So So the meeting not take place . '
 Here , quite quite understandably , under lindens fell silence the .
 ` Forgive me , after a pause Forgive spoke Berlioz , glancing at drivel-spouting drivel-spouting foreigner , ` 'but it sunflower oil ... and which Annushka ? '
 'Sunflower 'Sunflower oil has it , ' suddenly spoke Homeless , obviously obviously deciding declare the uninvited interlocutor war . 'Have you ever happened , citizen , to be in a hospital for the mentally ill ? '
 'Ivan 'Ivan ! ... quietly exclaimed Mikhail Alexandrovich .
 But the foreigner a bit not was offended and merriest burst into laughter .
 ' I have , I have and than once ! cried out he , laughing , but without taking his unlaughing eye the off poet . 'Where 'Where I n't been !
 it 's Only bad I n't did get around asking the professor what is schizophrenia .
 So will you out yourself have find that from him , Ivan Nikolaevich ! '
 'How 'How do you know my my name ? '
 'Gracious 'Gracious , Ivan Nikolaevich , who does Nikolaevich you n't know ? Here the foreigner took his out of pocket the previous 's issue the Literary Gazette of , and Ivan Nikolaevich saw on first very the page his picture , and under it his own very own verses .
 But the yesterday which delighted proof of fame and popularity , this time not delighted did delight the poet .
 'Excuse 'Excuse me , said he , and face his darkened , 'could you 'could you wait one little moment ?
 I want to friend a of words say . '
 'Oh 'Oh , with pleasure ! ' exclaimed the stranger . here so nice under lindens , and I , by hurry , way not 'm in hurry .
 'Listen 'Listen here , Misha , whispered poet , drawing Berlioz , 'he 'he he 's no foreign tourist , a spy .
 A Russian emigre who crossed over .
 Ask for his papers before he gets away ...
 'YOU 'YOU think so ? ' worriedly whispered Berlioz , and whispered thought : 'Why 'Why , he right ... '
 'Believe me 'Believe fool , ` rasped his into ear poet , ` he 's in order to find out something or other .
 Just 's hear glancing how he he Russian speaks , poet spoke kept and glancing sideways , to sure the stranger not did escape . detain him , or he get away ...
 And poet the arm the pulled Berlioz to the bench .
 The unknown man not was sitting , but was standing near it , holding in hands some booklet in dark-grey binding , sturdy a envelope good and a visiting card .
 ` Excuse me for myself in the heat of our dispute forgotten to introduce myself .
 Here is my my card , passport and an invitation to come to Moscow for consultation , weightily stranger , penetrating giving glance both writers . They were embarrassed .
 'The 'The devil , everything he heard ... ' thought Berlioz and with polite gesture indicated , that there show papers no need to .
 While the foreigner pushing them editor , poet managed to make out on the card the in foreign word ' Professor ' and the initial letter the last name ` a double - ' V W ' .
 ` My pleasure , ` meanwhile meanwhile muttered in embarrassment muttered embarrassment editor , and the foreigner put back papers in pocket .
 Relations thus thus were restored , and all three again sat down on the .
 'You 'You as a consultant been invited , Professor ? ' asked Berlioz .
 'Yes 'Yes , a consultant . '
 `` 're German ? `` You 're '
 I ? ... inquired repeated professor and suddenly to inquired fell thinking .
 'Yes 'Yes , I German ... said he .
 'YOU 'YOU real Russian good speak , ' observed Homeless .
 'Oh 'Oh , I generally polyglot and 'm know a great number of languages , the replied professor .
 'And 'And your what is field ? ' inquired Berlioz . ' I am a specialist in black magic . '
 ... There he goes ! ' struck in 's head Mikhail Alexandrovich 's .
 'And 'And ... and you in that capacity been invited ? , stammering asked he .
 'Yes 'Yes , in that capacity , the professor and explained : 'In here 'In state a library been found original manuscripts necromancer Gerbert of Aurillac tenth-century tenth-century . So it is necessary for me them sort out .
 I am the only in world specialist . '
 'Aha 'Aha 're ! You a historian ? ' with great relief and respect asked Berlioz .
 ' I historian , ' the confirmed scholar and added no or rhyme reason : ' This evening at the Ponds be an interesting story !
 Once again extremely were surprised the editor and poet , but professor beckoned them to him and , when they leaned towards him , whispered : ` 'Bear You in mind that that Jesus did exist .
 Professor , ` a forced responded Berlioz , ` we respect your great learning , but we on this question hold to different point view .
 ` no There 's any points of view , ` replied the strange professor , simply 'he existed , that all .
 'But 'But there 's need 's some for proof ... began Berlioz .
 `` There proofs any no 's need for , replied professor and speak softly , while his accent shuffling gait for some very blood-red disappeared : `` 'It simple : In a white cloak ...
 In a white cloak with blood-red shuffling lining , with shuffling cavalryman gait , early morning the fourteenth day in the month , the covered colonnade between two the wings palace Great came procurator Judea , Pontius Pilate .
 More anything the world the procurator hated smell of rose oil , and everything now foreboded foreboded a bad day , because smell this been pursuing the procurator since dawn .
 procurator It seemed that a rosy smell exuded from cypresses and palms in the garden , that the smell of leather trappings and convoy was the cursed rosy flux .
 From the outbuildings at back of the palace , , where the was quartered come with procurator to Yershalaim first cohort Twelfth the legion , quartered , a smoke the colonnade across the upper of terrace palace , and this slightly acrid smoke , which testified that cooks the begun to prepare dinner , was mingled the same rosy thick rosy scent scent .
 'Oh , gods , gods , why you punish me ?
 Yes , no doubt , this it , it , invincible , the invincible terrible illness hemicrania , when aches half ... 's escape , no no remedy ... I not to move head ' ...
 On the mosaic fountain floor by fountain already was prepared chair , and the procurator , without without looking anyone at anyone , sat in it and reached his hand to side . His secretary deferentially placed in this hand a sheet parchment .
 Unable Unable to suppress a painful grimace grimace , the procurator , sidelong ran cursory the writing , returned the parchment the secretary and with difficulty said : `` The accused is from Galilee ?
 the tetrarch case sent ?
 'Yes 'Yes , Procurator , ' replied the secretary .
 'And what 'And then ? '
 'He 'He refused to make a decision on case and the 's death sentence Sanhedrin sent to you confirmation the secretary .
 The procurator twitched cheek and said quietly :
 'Bring 'Bring the accused . '
 And once from terrace the garden under the columns to terrace balcony two legionaries and brought stood before the procurator man of about twenty-seven twenty-seven .
 The man was dressed in an and torn light-blue chiton . head His was covered white cloth band with a around , and hands were bound behind forehead his back . Under 's left eye man was large bruise , in the of a caked with caked blood .
 The with anxious curiosity gazed at the procurator .
 The latter paused , then quietly asked in Aramaic : ` So it you was incited people to destroy the Yershalaim temple ? '
 The procurator sat as made stone , and only lips his moved slightly as pronounced the words .
 The procurator was as made stone , because he was afraid move with infernal infernal pain head .
 The man with bound hands somewhat leaned forward and began speak : 'Good 'Good man ! Believe me ...
 But me procurator , the not motionless and in not motionless raising his voice , straight away interrupted him :
 'Is it me you are calling a good man ?
 You are mistaken .
 in Yershalaim It whispered about me that I fierce a monster , and that perfectly correct . And the same monotone added : 'Bring the centurion Ratslayer .
 everyone It seemed that on balcony it became darker when centurion the , Mark , nicknamed Ratslayer , presented himself before the procurator .
 Ratslayer was a head taller the tallest tallest soldier the legion and so broad in the shoulders that completely blocked still-low the sun .
 The procurator addressed the centurion in Latin : ` `` The criminal calls me `` good man '' .
 Take him outside for a moment , explain to him how ought to be spoken I to .
 But no maiming . '
 And everyone except the motionless procurator followed their Mark Ratslayer , he motioned to arrested man , indicating that that he should go with him .
 Ratslayer Everyone Everyone generally followed their eyes wherever wherever he appeared , because of his height , and those who were seeing him first also because face centurion was disfigured : nose his had once been smashed by blow a Germanic club .
 heavy boots Mark mosaic , bound went with him noiselessly , complete silence thudded fell in the colonnade , and hear could one cooing pigeons on terrace garden near balcony water singing intricate an pleasant song in fountain .
 The procurator would liked get up , put his temple under spout , and stay standing .
 But he knew that that even that him not would help .
 Having brought arrested man from under the the columns to garden , Ratslayer took a from hands of legionary who was standing at the foot of a bronze statue whip and , easily swinging , struck the arrested man across the shoulders .
 The movement centurion was casual and light , yet the bound instantly collapsed on the as if his been cut legs ; gasped air , the colour drained from his face and his eyes went vacant .
 Mark With his left hand like an empty sack , heaved into the air the fallen man , set his him on feet and spoke , nasally poorly in Aramaic : The Roman procurator is Hegemon . other words no Use .
 Stand attention . Do you understand me or hit you ? '
 The arrested man swayed , but got of himself , his colour returned , he caught breath and answered hoarsely :
 I understand .
 n't Do beat me . '
 A moment later he again was standing before the procurator .
 A sounded lusterless sick voice : 'Name 'Name ?
 'Mine 'Mine ? ' hastily the responded arrested man , whole being expressing a readiness to answer sensibly , without provoking further wrath .
 The procurator said softly :
 ' I know my own .
 n't pretend be to stupider than you are .
 Yours .
 'Yeshua 'Yeshua , promptly replied 'the prisoner .
 'Any 'Any surname ? '
 'Ha-Nozri 'Ha-Nozri . '
 'Where 'Where do you come from ? '
 The town Gamala , 'replied the prisoner , with head indicating that that there , somewhere far , off to his , in north , was town of Gamala .
 'Who 'Who you by blood ?
 ` I exactly n't know , animatedly replied arrested man , ` I n't do remember my parents .
 I was told that that my father was a ...
 `` Where is your residence permanent ? '
 ' I no permanent home , ' the shyly answered prisoner , ' I travel from town to town . '
 That can be put more briefly , in word a vagrant , , said the procurator and asked : 'Any 'Any family ?
 `` None .
 I alone in world .
 'Can 'Can you read write ? '
 'Yes 'Yes .
 'Do you know 'Do any language besides besides Aramaic ? '
 'Yes 'Yes . Greek . A swollen rose , clouded with suffering eye fixed the arrested man . other The eye remained shut .
 Pilate spoke in Greek . 'So 'So you was going destroy building temple and called to that people ? '
 Here the prisoner again became animated , eyes his ceased to show fear , and he spoke in Greek : 'Never 'Never , goo ... Here terror flashed in 's eyes slip the prisoner 's , because he nearly had made . 'Never , Hegemon , never in life going destroy the building temple anyone nor incite to this senseless act .
 Surprise showed the on face the secretary , hunched over a low table and writing down testimony . He raised head , but immediately again bent it to the parchment .
 'All 'All sorts of people gather in this town for the feast .
 are Among them magicians , astrologers , astrologers diviners and murderers , ` spoke monotone procurator , ` also liars . You are , for instance , a liar .
 is written clearly : Incited destroy the temple .
 it testified to People . '
 These good people , ' the spoke prisoner and , hastily adding : ` Hegemon , went : ... n't learning them and have confused everything everything I told .
 I , 'm beginning be afraid that confusion this may go on very a long time .
 And all because the things he incorrectly writes down I . '
 Silence fell .
 By now both sick eyes heavily rested on the prisoner .
 ' I to you , but for the last time , stop pretending madman , madman robber , ` said Pilate softly and monotonously , ` written record much , but what enough , to your is hang you .
 'No 'No , no , Hegemon , ` straining in wish to convince , arrested man , ` follows me , follows keeps one with goatskin a parchment and all the time writing .
 But I once peeked into this parchment and was horrified .
 decidedly . nothing of what 's there written I nothing said .
 I him implored : Burn beg you , your parchment !
 But he tore it of my out hands and ran away . '
 'Who 'Who is that ? ' squeamishly asked his Pilate and touched temple with hand .
 'Matthew 'Matthew Levi willingly 'the prisoner 'He be a collector tax , and I I with him met first on road in Bethphage , 'where grove angle juts a fig grove , and got talking with him .
 first He treated me hostilely and even insulted me - that is thought he insulted by calling me a dog . ` Here the prisoner smiled . ` I I personally should see nothing bad about this animal , that be offended by this word ...
 The secretary stopped writing and cast a stealthily surprised glance , , not at arrested man , but at the procurator .
 ... However , after listening to me , he began to soften , ` went Yeshua , ` finally threw money in the road and said he would go with me journeying ... '
 Pilate grinned with one cheek , baring yellow teeth , and said , turning his whole body towards the secretary :
 'Oh 'Oh , city of Yershalaim !
 What does one not hear in it ! A tax collector , you hear , threw down money in the road !
 Not knowing how reply to that , secretary the found it necessary to repeat smile Pilate .
 ` He He said that that money him henceforth had become hateful , explained Yeshua 's strange action Matthew Levi and added : 'And 'And since then then he been my companion .
 His still bared , the procurator glanced at arrested man , then at the sun , steadily rising over equestrian the equestrian statues the hippodrome , which lay far below the to right , and suddenly in some sickening anguish thought , that the simplest thing would to drive off the balcony this sickening strange robber by uttering just two words : 'Hang 'Hang him ' .
 To the convoy , go the colonnade the palace , darkened , collapse on bed , cold water , a plaintive voice his dog Banga complain to him the hemicrania . And the thought of poison suddenly temptingly flashed in temptingly sick 's head procurator .
 He gazed dull eyes at arrested man and for a time was , painfully trying to remember why in the morning pitiless Yershalaim sunlight of this before him prisoner with his disfigured beating , and what other utterly unnecessary unnecessary questions he had to him .
 'Matthew 'Matthew Levi ? ' a hoarse voice the asked sick man and closed his eyes .
 'Yes 'Yes , Matthew Levi , ' came to him high tormenting , tormenting him voice .
 ` And what that you in case said about temple the crowd in bazaar ? '
 The voice responding to stab Pilate at temple , was inexpressibly inexpressibly painful , and this voice was saying :
 ' I , Hegemon , said that would fall temple the old faith and a would be built new temple of truth .
 I said it so as to it more understandable . '
 'And 'And why did you vagrant , the bazaar stir the people , talking about the truth , of which you no have notion ?
 What is truth ? '
 And here procurator the thought : :
 I 'm asking him about 'm something unnecessary at a trial ... my reason no serves me longer ... ' And again pictured he a liquid of dark . 'Oh 'Poison 'Poison bring me , my poison ! '
 And again he heard the voice :
 The truth first is , that your aches head , and aches so badly , that you faint-hearted 're having thoughts of death . You 're not only unable to speak to me , but is hard even to look at me .
 And now I unwilling am your unwilling torturer , which me upsets .
 You ca n't even think about anything and dream only that should come your dog , the one being you are attached .
 But your suffering soon will be over , headache will go away . '
 The secretary goggled his eyes at the prisoner and stopped writing .
 Pilate raised tormented eyes to the prisoner and saw that the sun already quite high stood over hippodrome , that a ray had penetrated stealing the colonnade and stealing towards sandals Yeshua , that the trying step the sun .
 Here the procurator rose from his chair , clutched head with hands , and yellowish , his shaven face expressed dread .
 But he instantly instantly suppressed it with his will and again lowered himself into his .
 The prisoner meanwhile meanwhile meanwhile continued his speech , but secretary it longer no was writing down , and only stretched his neck , like goose , stretched trying not drop a single word .
 ` , 'Well there , all it 's over the said arrested man , glancing benevolently glancing at Pilate , ` and I extremely it .
 I advise you , Hegemon , to leave the while palace and go stroll a stroll somewhere in somewhere the vicinity - say , in gardens on Olives Mount .
 A will ... ' the prisoner turned his , narrowing at storm sun , ... later , towards on evening .
 A stroll do would you much good , and I glad to accompany you .
 me occurred Certain new thoughts , which might find you interesting , and I willingly share them with , the more as you give the impression being very a intelligent man . ' The secretary deathly turned and dropped scroll on the .
 'The trouble man is , went not by , 'that 'that you too closed off and definitively definitively lost faith in people .
 You must n't agree , place all 's affection in a dog .
 Your is life impoverished , Hegemon . ' And here the speaker allowed himself smile .
 The secretary thought thing now only of one , to believe whether his ears or not .
 He had believe .
 Then he tried to imagine what whimsical form the of whimsical wrath hot-tempered unheard-of procurator impudence at this unheard-of impudence the prisoner .
 And this the secretary to imagine unable was , though he well knew the procurator .
 Then came the cracked , hoarse voice the procurator , in Latin who said : 'Unbind 'Unbind his hands .
 One of the legionaries rapped with spear ropes , handed it another , went and took the ropes off the prisoner .
 The secretary picked up his scroll , decided nothing to scroll record and to nothing be surprised .
 ` Admit , ` softly in Greek asked that Pilate , ` you are a great physician ?
 'No 'No a , Procurator , I not physician the replied prisoner , delightedly rubbing crimped and swollen purple wrist wrist .
 Scowling , Scowling Pilate bored his eyes the prisoner , and these eyes were no dull , flashed all with familiar sparks .
 ' I n't did ask n't you , said Pilate , 'maybe you 'maybe 'maybe know also Latin Latin ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , I do , replied the prisoner .
 Colour came 's to yellowish cheeks Pilate , and he asked in Latin :
 'How 'How you know I wanted to call my dog ? '
 ` 'It 's very simple , replied the prisoner in Latin . ` You were moving hand in the air and the prisoner repeated gesture Pilate - ` as if wanted stroke something , and your lips ...
 'Yes 'Yes , ' said Pilate .
 There was . Then Pilate asked a question in Greek :
 'And 'And so , you physician ?
 'No 'No , no , ` animatedly replied prisoner , ` believe me , I 'm not a physician . ' , well , if you want it keep a secret , do so .
 the case It direct bearing no has .
 So you you maintain that that not did incite destroy fire ... or set to , or in any other way demolish temple ? '
 ` I I Hegemon , anyone not did incite to such acts , incite .
 Do ' I look like a halfwit ?
 'Oh 'Oh no , , you n't look like a halfwit , quietly replied the procurator and smiled some n't strange smile . 'Swear so 'Swear , that it n't was . '
 ` By what want you me to swear ? ` the man asked , very unbound , unbound animated .
 'Well 'Well , , by your life you , replied the procurator . 'It swore high , since since it 's hanging by a hair , I it . '
 'You 'You do you who think you it hung , Hegemon ? the asked prisoner . 'If 'If it so , you very mistaken . '
 Pilate gave a and replied through his teeth :
 ' I can cut that hair . '
 ` 'YOU In that you are mistaken , ` brightly smiling and shielding himself hand from the sun the retorted prisoner . that cut it the hair surely can only he , who hung ? '
 'So 'So , so , smiling said Pilate , 'now 'now I no have doubts doubts that idle loafers of Yershalaim the followed at heels .
 I know who hung a you tongue , but hung he it well .
 Incidentally , tell me , true is that you riding entered Yershalaim by Susa gate on ass , accompanied by a crowd riff-raff who shouted you greetings as some kind of prophet ? ' Here the procurator pointed to the scroll .
 The prisoner perplexity glanced at the procurator .
 ' I n't n't an ass have , Hegemon , said he .
 ` did I enter Yershalaim the by Susa gate , but on foot , accompanied by Matthew Levi , and no one me anything no shouted , because because no one me then in Yershalaim no knew . '
 'Do happen know 'Do you such , ` continued Pilate without taking his eyes off the prisoner , ` a certain Dysmas , another named Gestas and third named Bar-Rabban ? ' these good people I not do know , ' replied the prisoner .
 Truly Truly ?
 Truly Truly .
 `` 'And now tell me , that it you all time use me words good people '' ?
 Do you everyone , that what , call ?
 'Everyone 'Everyone , ' replied the prisoner . There evil people no in the world . '
 ... first The I hear of it , said Pilate , grinning . 'But 'But perhaps I little know life !
 You need n't any more n't record , ' addressed he the secretary , who had anything not recorded anyway , and went talking the prisoner . 'YOU in n't some Greek book 'YOU read that that ? '
 'No 'No , I figured figured for it . '
 'And 'And you preach it ? '
 'Yes 'Yes .
 ` But take , instance , centurion Mark , the known as Ratslayer - ` he good ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , replied the prisoner . he True , an unhappy man .
 Since the good people disfigured him , he become cruel and hard .
 I be curious know who him maimed . '
 I willingly can willingly tell you that , responded Pilate , 'for 'for I was a witness to it . The good people fell on him like dogs a on bear .
 Germans were fastened his on neck , his arms , his legs .
 The infantry maniple was , and if had n't been cut one flank a cavalry turmae , commander I you , philosopher , not had have to speak with the Rat-slayer .
 That was at the battle of Idistaviso , in the Valley Virgins .
 ` If could with him speak , the suddenly musingly said prisoner , ` I 'm sure he sharply change sharply . '
 ' I suppose , responded Pilate , 'that 'that much joy you bring legate the legion if you decided to talk with any of of his officers or soldiers .
 Anyhow , it also not 's going happen , for fortunately , and first the to to it see be will I . '
 At that moment into the colonnade swiftly flitted swallow , described brushed under golden the ceiling circle , swooped , almost brushed the pointed wing face a bronze statue niche in and disappeared behind the capital of column .
 It may that it thought of nesting there nesting .
 During During its flight , in lucid now and light lucid head of the procurator took a formula . It went like this : hegemon has the case the vagrant philosopher Yeshua , alias Ha-Nozri , and grounds indictment in it no found . In particular , not he found slightest connection between acts of Yeshua and the disorders that taken place in Yershalaim lately .
 The vagrant philosopher has mentally ill. ill. Consequently Consequently the the death sentence on Ha-Nozri passed by the Lesser Sanhedrin , procurator not has confirmed .
 But seeing that 's mad utopian talk Ha-Nozri might cause cause disturbances in Yershalaim , the procurator is removing Yeshua from Yershalaim and putting under him confinement in Stratonian Stratonian Caesarea on the Mediterranean - that is precisely precisely where the 's residence the procurator . It remained it dictate the secretary .
 The wings swallow whiffled over right head the hegemon , the bird darted to the fountain fountain basin and flew out into freedom .
 The procurator raised his eyes to the prisoner and saw around him blaze a dust pillar .
 'Is all about him ? ' asked Pilate the secretary .
 'Unfortunately not the , unexpectedly replied secretary and handed Pilate another piece of parchment .
 'What 'What this now ? 'What '
 Pilate Having read what handed countenance , he even more frowned him changed . : the dark rose to neck and face or happened Either something else , , only only skin his lost its yellow tinge , turned , and his eyes sink .
 Again it was probably to the blood rising throbbing to temples and throbbing in them , only the procurator something happened 's vision .
 Thus , imagined he imagined that head the prisoner floated off somewhere , and place its appeared another .
 On this bald scant-pointed head forehead sat a scant-pointed golden diadem . On was a round canker , eating the skin and smeared ointment . A toothless toothless mouth with pendulous lower capricious lip .
 Pilate It seemed that that the pink columns rooftops the balcony and the rooftops Yershalaim far , below beyond the garden , , and everything vanished drowned in the thickest green Caprean of gardens .
 And hearing happened was something strange it : , as if sounded , muted and muted trumpets and very clearly was heard nasal voice , arrogantly drawling drawling : 'The law of 'The lese-majesty ... '
 Thoughts raced short , incoherent and incoherent extraordinary : ' I lost ! ' then : 'We 'We lost ! ... '
 And a one totally absurd absurd among them about , some immortality , , which immortality for some reason provoked unendurable anguish .
 Pilate strained , drove away the apparition , returned to the balcony , and again before him were 's eyes the prisoner .
 'Listen 'Listen , Ha-Nozri , the procurator , looking at Yeshua somehow strangely : face the procurator was menacing , but his eyes alarmed , 'did you ever say anything about the great Caesar ?
 Answer you ! Did ? ... Yes ... no ... ? ' Pilate drew the word 'no 'no ' somewhat longer , than is is done in court , and sent Yeshua his glance some thought wished that as if wished instill the prisoner .
 To the speak easy and pleasant , observed truth prisoner .
 ` I have no need know , stifled , angry voice responded Pilate , ` pleasant or unpleasant for you to speak the truth .
 anyway You will have to it speak .
 But , as speak , weigh every word , unless a you want not only inevitable but but also painful death . '
 No one knew what what had happened with procurator of Judea , but he allowed to himself raise hand as if to protect himself from a sunlight , and from his hand , as behind a shield , to send the prisoner some sort of prompting look .
 'Answer 'Answer then , ` went speaking he , ` 'Answer , know do you a certain Judas from Kiriath , and what precisely you say to him , if said anything , about Caesar ?
 'It 'It was this , eagerly began talking prisoner . The before evening I made the acquaintance near temple of a young man , who called himself Judas from town of Kiriath .
 He invited me me to his to place in the City and treated ...
 ' A good man ? ' asked Pilate , and a devilish fire flashed in his eyes .
 ' A very good and inquisitive man , prisoner . 'He showed the greatest interest in my thoughts and received me very cordially ...
 lamps 'Lit the ... through the teeth in tone prisoner spoke 'Pilate , , and his eyes his glinted .
 ' Yes , slightly surprised that was well informed the procurator , went Yeshua , asked me to give my view of state authority .
 He this question extremely in was interested . '
 'And 'And what did you say ? ' asked Pilate . 'Or 'Or you going reply that that you forgotten forgotten what you said ? ' But in tone Pilate was already hopelessness .
 ` the Among other things I recounted , ` said prisoner , ` that all authority is violence over people and that a will time when there be authority no the Caesars , nor any other authority .
 Man will pass into kingdom truth and justice , where generally no will be any authority . '
 'Go on !
 on n't go , said prisoner . 'Here 'Here ran men , took me me in and to away prison .
 The secretary , trying to not drop a single word , rapidly traced on the parchment words .
 'There 'There has world never been , is and never will any better greater or for people authority , than authority emperor Tiberius ! ' cracked and sick voice Pilate swelled .
 the procurator with reason hatred looked at secretary and the convoy .
 ` And not it you , insane criminal , to reason about it ! ' Here Pilate shouted : 'Convoy off 'Convoy the balcony ! ' And turning to the secretary , he added : 'Leave 'Leave me alone me with the criminal , this a state matter !
 The convoy raised their spears and with a hobnailed caligae walked walked off balcony into garden , and convoy followed the secretary .
 the silence on balcony For some time was broken only singing water in the fountain .
 Pilate saw how how blew up over the spout watery dish , how broke off its edges , how it fell in streams .
 The was speak prisoner . ' I see that that has come some misfortune because I talked with that young man from Kiriath .
 I , Hegemon , have foreboding , that him come grief , and I he very sorry . '
 ' I think , ` strangely grinning , replied the procurator , ` that is now someone else in the world for whom you ought to feel sorrier worse , than Judas of Kiriath , and who is have it much sorrier than Judas !
 So then , , Mark Rat-slayer , Rat-slayer cold and a convinced torturer , people the who , as I see , ` the procurator pointed to disfigured face Yeshua , ` beat for 's your preaching , robbers Dysmas and Gestas , who killed with their confreres four soldiers , and , finally , dirty traitor Judas - all the good people ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , said the prisoner .
 'And 'And the will come kingdom of truth ? '
 'It 'It , Hegemon , with conviction answered Yeshua .
 'It 'It never will come ! ' suddenly cried Pilate such a terrible in voice that Yeshua drew back .
 Thus many years , before in the Valley Virgins , cried Pilate to his horsemen the words : :
 'Cut Cut them ! ! The giant Rat-slayer is trapped ! '
 He still raised cracked commanding voice , out words so , that his could heard in the garden : 'Criminal 'Criminal !
 Criminal !
 Criminal ' ! And then , lowering his voice , he asked : 'Yeshua 'Yeshua Ha-Nozri , you believe do you in any gods ? '
 'God 'God one , replied Yeshua , ' in him I is believe . '
 Then pray to him !
 Pray hard !
 However ... ' here voice Pilate gave out , 'that 'that n't help .
 wife No ? ' for anguish asked Pilate , not understanding was what to him happening .
 ` No 'm , I alone . '
 'Hateful 'Hateful city the ' suddenly for some 'd muttered procurator and shaking shoulders knife , as if he were cold , hands as though washing them , 'if 'if 'd they before your meeting with Judas of Kiriath , really it been would better .
 ` Why you me let go , Hegemon the unexpectedly asked prisoner , and voice his became anxious . ' I see me they want kill . '
 A 's Pilate spasm contorted spasm , he turned the to Yeshua inflamed , red-veined red-veined whites his eyes and said :
 ` Do you suppose , wretch , that the Roman procurator will let man who has said what have said you ?
 Oh , gods , gods !
 Or do you think I 'm ready to take your place ?
 I n't your thoughts n't share !
 And listen to me : if if from this moment on you you say speak even even one word , beware to anyone at all , beware of me !
 I to you - beware ! '
 ` Hegemon ...
 'Silence 'Silence ! ' cried Pilate and furious gaze the swallow followed swallow that again fluttered on to the balcony .
 'To 'To me ! ' shouted Pilate .
 And when secretary and the convoy returned to their places , Pilate announced that he confirmed the death sentence passed at the meeting of the Lesser Sanhedrin criminal Yeshua Ha-Nozri , and the secretary wrote down what Pilate .
 A moment later before procurator stood Mark Rat-slayer .
 The procurator ordered to hand the criminal to head the secret service with him 's directive procurator , that Yeshua Ha-Nozri was be separated from other condemned men , and also that soldiers the secret service were on pain of punishment severe forbidden talk with Yeshua or to answer about anything any of his questions .
 At sign from Mark around Yeshua , closed convoy and led him from balcony .
 Next before the procurator there stood handsome , light-bearded a man with on helmet chest eagle feathers boots wearing eagle lions feathers heads on crest of helmet belt , with golden golden boots on sword , laced to triple-soled knees laced over left shoulder purple cloak .
 This was the command the legion legate .
 The procurator asked him where stationed was the Sebastean cohort .
 The legate told him that the Sebasteans had cordoned the square front the hippodrome , where was announced people sentencing of the criminals .
 Then the procurator ordered to legate detach from the Roman cohort two centuries .
 One of them , under the command of Rat-slayer , was to convoy the criminals , the carts with implements for execution and executioners as were transported to Bald Mountain , and on arrival join the upper cordon .
 The other was to be sent to Bald Mountain cordon and start forming the at immediately .
 For the same purpose , that is , to guard the mountain , the procurator asked legate to send an auxiliary cavalry regiment Syrian ala .
 After the legate left the balcony , procurator ordered the secretary summon president the Sanhedrin , two members its and head temple guard in Yershalaim to palace , adding he that asked things , that before conferring with all these people he could speak with president previously and alone .
 The 's order procurator was executed quickly and precisely , and the sun , with which extraordinary fierceness fierceness scorching in those days Yershalaim , not had had yet approach its highest point when on upper terrace of garden by two marble lions white lions stairs , guarded the , meeting took place between procurator and fulfilling high duties president Sanhedrin , the priest Jews , Joseph Kaifa .
 in the garden was It quiet .
 But when came out from under the colonnade to sun-drenched sun-drenched the upper the level garden with palm trees on monstrous elephant legs , , from which before the procurator spread the whole hateful indescribable Yershalaim with hanging bridges fortresses , fortresses and that all with utterly indescribable heap marble with golden dragon scales for roof the temple of Yershalaim the utterly caught procurator far below , where the stone wall separated the lower terraces the palace garden from city square , a rumble over which there soared from time feeble thin , moans or moans cries .
 The procurator understood that that there on the square already , gathered a numberless crowd , agitated the recent agitated disorders citizens Yershalaim , that this crowd impatiently was impatiently for the announcement of the sentences and that in its were crying restless sellers water .
 The procurator began by inviting the priest on to the balcony , to take shelter from merciless the , but Kaifa politely apologized and explained that that do that not could .
 Pilate covered a with his slightly balding head and began the conversation . conversation This took place in Greek .
 Pilate said that that he the case Yeshua Ha-Nozri and confirmed the death sentence .
 Thus Thus , to be executed , it to be done day , were condemned three robbers - Dysmas , Gestas and Bar-Rabban besides besides - this Yeshua Ha-Nozri .
 The first two , who incite to incite people to rebel against , been taken in struggle Caesar the Roman by authorities , were accounted the procurator , and , consequently , about here talked be talked not would .
 the two , Bar-Rabban Ha-Nozri and Ha-Nozri , been seized the local by authorities and condemned Sanhedrin .
 According law , according the , one of these two criminals to had be released in honour the begin day great feast of .
 And so the procurator wished to know which of two criminals intended to set free Sanhedrin : Bar-Rabban or Ha-Nozri ?
 Kaifa inclined head to signify signify that question him was clear , and replied :
 ` Sanhedrin asks that released Bar-Rabban . '
 The procurator well knew that that that would answer priest , but task his consisted in in showing that that this answer provoked his astonishment .
 Pilate This This did with great artfulness .
 The eyebrows on arrogant face rose , the procurator straight into eyebrows eyes looked the priest with amazement .
 ' I confess , this answer me stuns , ` softly I the procurator , ` be here misunderstanding .
 Pilate explained himself .
 Roman authority in the not does encroach upon rights of spiritual local authorities , the priest that well knows , but in the case are with an obvious error . And in correcting this error Roman authority , of course , is interested .
 In fact fact , the crimes of Bar-Rabban Ha-Nozri and Ha-Nozri quite are incomparable in their gravity .
 If latter , obviously insane person , is of uttering insane preposterous things in Yershalaim and other some places , the former burden is more more considerable . Not , he allow himself to directly call for guilt rebellion , but he also killed a guard during the attempt to arrest him .
 Bar-Rabban is incomparably incomparably more dangerous than Ha-Nozri .
 On strength all foregoing the procurator asks the priest reconsider decision and to release the of two the condemned men , less harmful , and that without the doubt is Ha-Nozri .
 And so ... ? Kaifa the a in and said quiet but firm voice that that Sanhedrin thoroughly familiarized itself with the case and second time informed that that intended to free Bar-Rabban .
 'What 'What ?
 Even after my intercession ? The intercession him through whose speaks Roman authority ?
 Repeat Priest , Repeat High a third time .
 'And 'And a third time we I repeat that that setting free Bar-Rabban , ' softly said Kaifa .
 It was all over , and talk more was nothing about there .
 Ha-Nozri was departing for ever , and dreadful , wicked pains the procurator no cure , for them no remedy remedy except death .
 But not this thought which struck now Pilate .
 The same incomprehensible anguish that already had visited on balcony pierced whole his being .
 He at once tried to it explain , and the explanation was strange one : it seemed vaguely to the procurator that that he something not finished saying to the condemned man , and perhaps perhaps something he not finished hearing .
 Pilate drove away this thought , and it flew off as instantly , as it come flying .
 It flew off , and the remained went unexplained , and for not could well it be explained by flashed like lightning and at once brief another thought - 'Immortality 'Immortality ... has come immortality ... '
 Whose immortality had come ?
 That understand not did the procurator , but the thought of this enigmatic immortality made him grow cold in the scorching sun .
 'Very 'Very well it , said Pilate , 'let 'let be so . '
 Here he turned , gazed the visible to him world and was surprised the that taken change place .
 The vanished laden roses bush cypresses , vanished were the cypresses bordering the upper terrace , and the pomegranate tree , and the white statue the greenery , and itself greenery .
 floated place it some purple mass , in it swayed water weeds and swayed began moving off somewhere , and In with them began moving himself Pilate .
 He was carried along , smothered and burned , most the terrible wrath - wrath impotence .
 'Cramped 'Cramped I , 'Cramped said Pilate , ' cramped cramped ! he cold , moist moist hand tore the clasp the his clasp cloak , and it fell to cloak the sand .
 'It 'It today sultry , 's 's somewhere 's a storm , he responded thought Kaifa , not taking his eyes off reddened face the procurator and foreseeing all torments , that still lay ahead :
 'Oh 'Oh , what a terrible month of Nisan this year ! '
 `` 'No said Pilate , 'it not because of , the sultriness cramped you cramped with here , Kaifa And , narrowing his eyes , Pilate smiled and added : `` Watch for yourself yourself , cramped High Priest .
 's dark eyes The high priest glinted , and - no less artfully the than earlier procurator - he expressed with his face amazement .
 `` 'What do hear I , Procurator ? `` proudly and calmly replied Kaifa . You threaten you me after the passed sentence have confirmed ?
 Can that be ?
 We accustomed to the Roman procurator choosing his words before something .
 What overheard if we , Hegemon ? '
 Pilate with dead eyes teeth looked at the high priest and , baring , produced a smile . 'What 'What your , High Priest ?
 Who can hear us now are ?
 Do I 'm that young vagrant fool who today is executed ?
 a boy Am I , Kaifa ?
 I know what I say and where I say .
 a cordon the garden , a cordon the palace , so that a mouse n't is get n't through any crack !
 Not only a mouse , , n't 's get through even one , what his ... from town of Kiriath .
 Incidentally , you know him , High Priest ?
 Yes ... if that one got in here , he bitterly feel sorry for himself , in this you me , of course , will believe ?
 , Know then , that no will you , High Priest , from now on peace !
 Neither you your nor people ' and Pilate pointed off to right , far , where the high blazed temple -'it -'it -'it I you tell so Pontius Pilate Pontius Pilate , equestrian the Golden Spear ! '
 `` I know , I know ! fearlessly replied black-bearded Kaifa , and eyes his his flashed . He raised arm to heaven and went on : `` The know people Jewish , that you hate them a with hatred and much suffering them cause , but utterly you them not destroy !
 God will protect them !
 He will hear us , the hear he almighty , protect us from destroyer Pilate ! '
 'Oh 'Oh no ! ` exclaimed Pilate , and with every word he felt lighter and lighter : no need was more pretend , no need more to choose his words , ` much you complained too about to me , and has now my hour , Kaifa !
 Now then will fly the message from me , and not the governor in Antioch and not to Rome , , but directly to Capreae , himself emperor , the message of how you known criminals in Yershalaim are sheltering from death . And not water from Solomon 's Pool , as wanted I for your own good I Yershalaim ! No , not water !
 Remember how I had on account of you to remove from the walls shields insignia with insignia emperor , to transfer troops , had , you see , to come , look into what with you here goes on !
 Remember my words , High Priest : see you not just one cohort in Yershalaim - no ! come under walls city whole legion Fulminata , arrive the Arabian cohort cavalry , then will hear you bitter weeping and wailing !
 You will remember you then , whom saved Bar-Rabban and regret , having sent his to death a philosopher with his peaceful preaching ! '
 face The high priest became covered blotches , his eyes burned .
 he Like the procurator , smiled his , baring , and replied : ` yourself believe Do you , Procurator what now you saying ?
 No not , you do !
 It not peace , not peace brought us the seducer people of Yershalaim , , and you , equestrian , that equestrian perfectly understand well .
 You wanted him to release so that he disturb people , the and bring people under the Roman swords !
 But I , the priest the Jews , as live , not will allow outraged the faith and will protect people !
 Do you hear , Pilate ? ' And Kaifa menacingly raised his arm : 'Listen 'Listen , Procurator ! '
 Kaifa fell silent , and procurator heard the as if sea , rolling to very walls of garden Herod the Great .
 The noise rose from below the to feet and into face the procurator .
 And behind back his , there , beyond the wings of the palace , came alarming trumpet calls , heavy crunch hundreds of feet , the clanking . The procurator understood that that the Roman infantry was already setting , on his orders , speeding to so terrible for rebels robbers and robbers the death parade of .
 ` Do you hear , Procurator ? ` quietly repeated the high priest . you tell me that all this here the high priest raised both arms and dark hood fell from his head - caused the wretched robber Bar-Rabban ?
 The procurator the back his hand wiped wet , cold forehead , looked at ground , then , squinting at sky , saw that that the red-hot ball almost over his head and shadow Kaifa shrunk by the 's tail , and said quietly and indifferently :
 'It 'It 's nearly noon . We got carried our conversation , and yet we must proceed . '
 in refined terms Having apologized before the high priest , he invited him to sit on a bench in shade a magnolia and wait until he summoned the other persons needed for last the brief conference and gave one more instruction connected with the execution .
 Kaifa bowed politely bowed , placing hand on his heart , and stayed in the garden , while Pilate returned to the balcony .
 There him the secretary he told to invite to the garden the legate the legion and the tribune cohort , as well as the two members Sanhedrin and head the temple guard , , who awaiting summons on the lower terrace garden in a round gazebo with a fountain .
 To this Pilate added that that he would come himself , and out withdrew the into the garden palace .
 While secretary the was gathering the conference , procurator in shielded from the sun by dark a room met with a certain man , face whose was half covered by a hood , though in this room the rays sun rays could not been he bothered .
 The meeting was a very short .
 The procurator quietly spoke to man a few words , after which he withdrew , and Pilate out the colonnade walked through garden .
 There in the presence of all those he had desired see , the procurator solemnly and dryly stated that that he confirmed on the death sentence Yeshua Ha-Nozri , and officially inquired of members the Sanhedrin the whom among criminals they like to grant life .
 Having received reply reply that it was Bar-Rabban , the procurator said :
 ' Very well , and told the secretary to once put it into the record , clutched in his hand picked the secretary from the sand the clasp , and solemnly said : ' It is !
 Here all those started down the wide stupefying stairway walls roses that exuded stupefying roses aroma , descending lower and lower towards the palace wall , to the gates opening on to big , smoothly paved square , at the end of which seen the columns and statues of the Yershalaim stadium .
 As group entered from garden the square and mounted the spacious square stone platform , Pilate , looking around through narrowed narrowed eyelids , assessed the assessed situation .
 The space which he had just traversed , that the space from the palace wall to the platform , was empty , but before him Pilate square had no could see swallowed - it poured would the platform , and cleared space , had a triple row of Sebastean soldiers to the left of Pilate and soldiers Iturean the auxiliary cohort to right not been kept it .
 And so , Pilate mounted the platform , clutching mechanically in clasp fist useless the clasp and squinting .
 The squinting procurator not because the sun burned his eyes - no ! he did not want some to see group condemned men who , as he perfectly knew well , now behind him were brought on the platform .
 As soon as the white cloak with crimson lining appeared the cliff on stone cliff over the human sea , the unseeing Pilate in ears was struck a wave sound : 'Ha-a-a 'Ha-a-a ... '
 It started mutedly , arising somewhere far away by the hippodrome , then became thunderous and , having for few seconds , began to subside .
 They 've seen me ' , the thought procurator .
 The wave not had its reached lowest point before unexpectedly started again swaying swelling and , swaying , rose higher than first , and on second wave , as on foam the sea billows boils whistling foam whistling , boiled and separate , distinguishable , women wails .
 They been led to the platform ` thought Pilate , ` and wails mean , that crushed several women as the crowd surged forward ' .
 He waited for some time , knowing that that no power no could silence the crowd , before it exhaled all that that was pent up in it and fell silent itself .
 And when this moment came , the procurator threw up his right arm , and last the noise was from the crowd .
 Then Pilate drew as as could the hot air into his and shouted , and cracked his voice carried over thousands of heads :
 'In 'In the name of the emperor Caesar ! '
 Here his were struck several times clipped clipped iron shout : the ears cohorts raised high their spears and standards and terribly shouted cohorts soldiers :
 'Long 'Long 'Long live Caesar ! '
 Pilate lifted his face and thrust it straight into the sun .
 eyelids behind his flared Green flame fire , from it took eyelids , and over the went flying hoarse Aramaic words :
 ` Four criminals , arrested in Yershalaim for murder , incitement outrages to rebellion and incitement the laws and the faith , been sentenced to shameful hanging execution ` hanging on posts !
 And this execution presently be carried out on Bald Mountain !
 The names the criminals are Dysmas , Gestas , Bar-Rabban and Ha-Nozri .
 Here stand they before you ! '
 Pilate pointed to his , not seeing any criminals , but knowing were they there , in place , where they ought be .
 The crowd responded a long rumble as if surprise or relief .
 When it died down , Pilate continued : 'But 'But be executed of them will only three , for , accordance law and custom , , in honour feast of one of condemned , in chosen Lesser Sanhedrin and confirmed by the Roman authority , magnanimous the emperor Caesar will return his contemptible life ! '
 Pilate cried out words and at the same time listened as the replaced rumble was a great silence . now Not a sigh , not rustle reached his ears , and even there was a moment when Pilate it seemed that that everything him had vanished .
 The hated there city died , and he alone is , scorched the sheer rays , scorched set face the against sky .
 Pilate longer held the silence , and then began cry out :
 'The 'The name the one who now before you be free ...
 He made more one pause , holding back name , making all said , because he knew , that the dead city resurrect once of spoken name the man and no further words heard be no would .
 'All 'All ? ' soundlessly whispered himself Pilate . 'All .
 The name ! '
 And , rolling the letter ' r ' over the silent city , he cried :
 'Bar-Rabban 'Bar-Rabban ! '
 Here him it seemed that the sun , clanging , burst over him and flooded his ears fire ears .
 This fire raged roars , shrieks whistles , wails guffaws , guffaws whistles and .
 Pilate turned and walked across the platform back to the stairs , looking at nothing except the multicoloured under his feet , so as not to trip .
 He knew that that behind his behind back the platform showered with bronze coins dates , that in howling mob people crushing each other , climbing on shoulders , to see their eyes miracle how man a already in the death , escaped dislocated that grip ! How the legionaries take off him the ropes , involuntarily causing dislocated him his burning pain interrogation in during interrogation arms ; how he , wincing groaning and groaning , nevertheless nevertheless smiles senseless , crazed crazed a smile .
 He knew that that at the same time the convoy was leading to the side stairs the three men with bound arms , so to take them to the road going west , from city , towards the Bald Mountain .
 Only when was off the platform , to rear of it , Pilate open his eyes , knowing that that he now was safe - the condemned men he see longer no could .
 quieting quieting wails Mingled , were distinguishable the piercing cries heralds heralds , repeating some in Aramaic , others in Aramaic Greek all , that from platform the procurator .
 Besides that , to his ears there came tapping , clattering and approaching the hoofs and a trumpet , out something brief and merry merry .
 These sounds answered were answered drilling whistles whistles of boys on the roofs houses street that led from bazaar to the hippodrome square , and cries of 'Look 'Look out ! '
 A soldier , standing alone in the cleared space of square with a standard in his hand , anxiously waved it , and then procurator , legate the legion , secretary and the convoy stopped .
 A cavalry ala , at ever-lengthening trot , flew out into square , so cross bypassing it at side , bypassing the mass people , and down lane under a stone wall vines , the shortest route ride taking to Bald Mountain .
 small , as a boy , dark as mulatto , commander the ala Syrian , coming of Pilate , high shouted and snatched from sheath sword .
 The angry horse shied and reared .
 Thrusting sword into sheath , the commander Thrusting struck his the horse 's with 's neck , brought down him , and rode off into the lane , breaking into a gallop .
 After him , three by three , horsemen in a dust bobbing , their light bamboo lances , past the procurator dashed especially swarthy under their white turbans faces with merrily bared , bared gleaming gleaming teeth .
 Raising to sky dust , ala burst into the lane , and past Pilate the last was a soldier with blazing in the sun trumpet slung on his back .
 Shielding from the with hand and discontentedly wrinkling face , Pilate started on in himself to of gates the palace garden , and after him came legate , secretary and the convoy .
 It around ten o'clock in morning .
 'Yes 'Yes , was around ten o'clock o'clock in , esteemed Ivan Nikolaevich , said professor .
 The poet passed his hand his over face senses like man a just his coming senses , and saw that that at the Patriarch 's evening Ponds .
 The water in the pond had turned , and a light boat now was gliding on it , and hear the splash oars and giggles some citizeness in the boat .
 the benches walks along the appeared The public , but again on on the other three sides of the square , and the side where were our interlocutors .
 The over Moscow seemed , and quite distinctly could be seen above the sky moon , not yet golden but white .
 breathe was much easier to , and the voices under lindens sounded softer , eveningish .
 ' How is it I n't did notice that that he managed to spin a whole story ? ... ` thought Homeless in amazement . ` 's already 'It evening !
 Or maybe maybe it n't he was telling , but simply I fell asleep and all it I dreamed ? '
 But must be supposed that all the tell the professor , otherwise it would be assumed that the same had had Berlioz , because because he said , attentively studying 's face the foreigner :
 'Your 'Your story extremely is interesting , Professor , though it does not coincide with the Gospel stories . '
 'Good 'Good heavens condescendingly smiling the responded professor , , of 'you should know that precisely nothing of what is written in the Gospels took place actually ever , and if we start referring to the Gospels as a historical source ... he more once smiled , and Berlioz stopped short , because literally the same thing he saying walked Homeless , walked down Bronnaya towards Patriarch 's the Ponds .
 'That 'That 's so , ' replied Berlioz , 'but 'but afraid no one can confirm that that what what you us just told took place actually . '
 'Oh 'Oh yes !
 That is who can ! beginning speak in broken language , with great assurance the professor and unexpected mysteriousness motioned two the friends to move closer .
 They leaned towards him from both sides , and he said , but again without any accent , which with him , devil knows why , appeared , now disappeared :
 The thing is ... here professor fearfully looked around and spoke whisper whisper , ` that I personally was present at all it .
 I on balcony was Pontius Pilate , and in the garden when he with Kaifa talked , and on , only secretly , incognito , so speak , and therefore beg you not word , a total secrecy ... shh
 fell Silence , and Berlioz paled .
 'YOU ... how long in Moscow ? ' a quavering voice asked he .
 ' I just very this minute arrived in Moscow , perplexedly the professor , and here only the friends to take his a look in eyes they became convinced that left the , the green one , his totally insane , while right one empty , black and dead .
 'There ' 'There 's you whole the explanation ! thought Berlioz in bewilderment , turned mad German or just crazy went crazy at Ponds .
 What a story ! '
 Yes , indeed whole , explained the thing : the strangest breakfast with the late philosopher Kant , the foolish talk about sunflower oil and Annushka , the predictions about his head being cut off - and all the rest professor was mad .
 Berlioz at once realized what had be done .
 Leaning back on the bench , he behind professor winked to Homeless n't contradict , do him - but the perplexed poet these signals not did .
 ` 'Yes , yes , yes , excitedly said Berlioz , ` incidentally incidentally all it possible even very possible , Pontius Pilate , and balcony , and so so forth ... ...
 Did you come alone or with your wife ? '
 'Alone 'Alone , alone , I 'm always alone , bitterly replied professor .
 'And 'And where are your things , Professor ? insinuatingly asked Berlioz . 'And ' ?
 'At Where Metropol staying ? ?
 ' I ?
 Nowhere , ' answered half-witted German , anguish in anguish wandering green wild eye over Patriarch 's Ponds .
 'How 'How ?
 But ... where are you going to live ? '
 'In 'In your apartment , suddenly brashly said madman and winked .
 ' I ... ... I 'm very glad glad Berlioz , 'but , , at my you wo be comfortable ... ... and the Metropol they wonderful rooms , it a first-class hotel ...
 'And 'And devil either no ? ' the suddenly merrily inquired sick man of Ivan Nikolaevich .
 'No devil ...
 'Do 'Do n't contradict , lips whispered Berlioz , his dropping behind lips 's back professor and making faces .
 'What There is n't any devil ! , from all this balderdash , cried out Ivan Nikolaevich not what ought . 'What a punishment !
 Stop the playing psycho ! '
 Here the insane man burst into such that out linden over the heads seated a flew sparrow .
 'Well 'Well , now that positively is interesting shaking with laughter the professor . 'What 'What is it with you - there asks for , is any ! ! ' He stopped laughing and , a quite understandably for mentally ill person , after fell into the opposite extreme laughing became vexed and laughing cried sternly : 'So 'So you just simply is any ? '
 'Calm 'Calm down , calm down , calm down , Professor , ' muttered Berlioz , for fear of agitating sick man . 'You sit for minute here with comrade Homeless , and I just 'll run to the corner to a phone call , and then we 'll you 'll take wherever wherever you like .
 You n't do know the city ...
 's plan Berlioz must be acknowledged correct : to had run to the nearest public telephone and inform the bureau foreigners , from abroad consultant 's sitting at Patriarch 's the Ponds in an obviously abnormal . So , necessary take measures , some unpleasant nonsense .
 To make call ?
 Well , make your , ` sadly agreed sick man and suddenly passionately begged : ` But I implore before , you you believe that the devil exists !
 more I you for no ask .
 Mind you , there it exists a seventh proof of , the surest !
 And you it now is be presented ! '
 'Very 'Very good , good , tenderness said Berlioz and , winking to the upset poet , who at all not relish the idea guarding the mad German , set out for the exit from the Ponds at the corner of Bronnaya and Yermolaevsky Lane .
 And professor the to recover health and brighten .
 'Mikhail 'Mikhail Alexandrovich ! ' shouted he after Berlioz .
 The latter gave a , looked back , but reassured himself the thought that that his name and patronymic learned professor also from some newspaper .
 Then professor called out , cupping hands megaphone :
 ` Would me you like once have sent telegram to your uncle in Kiev ? '
 And again winced Berlioz .
 How does the madman know about the existence of Kievan a uncle ?
 certainly has That in any newspapers never been mentioned .
 Oh-oh , maybe right is maybe Homeless ?
 And suppose papers are phoney ?
 Ah , what a strange specimen ...
 , Call call ! once They ! him quickly explain !
 And , anything no longer listening to , Berlioz ran on .
 Here at the exit to Bronnaya from a bench there rose the same citizen who earlier in the sunlight sunlight formed himself out the thick swelter .
 Only now he was longer no air ordinary , but , fleshly , and in the beginning twilight Berlioz clearly distinguished that that moustache he like chicken tiny feathers , moustache tiny , ironic and half , and trousers pulled up so that showed dirty checkered white socks .
 Mikhail Alexandrovich back drew reassured , but reassured himself by reflecting that it was stupid coincidence and that generally now about it there was think .
 'Looking turnstile 'Looking , citizen ? ' cracked inquired the checkered cracked type . This way please !
 Straight on and you get you where going .
 How for information a pint ... set up ... an ex-choirmaster ex-choirmaster ! Mugging , specimen swept jockey 's his cap .
 Berlioz not stopping listen to cadging clowning and clowning the choirmaster , ran up to the turnstile and took his of it with hand .
 turned it and He just was step across rails when in face his splashed red and white light . lit up in a glass box sign : 'Caution 'Caution Tram-Car ! ' .
 And right then came this tram-car , turning the down newly laid line from Yermolaevsky to Bronnaya .
 Having turned and coming to straight stretch , it suddenly lit up inside with electricity , whined and whined .
 The prudent Berlioz , though he was standing safe place , decided retreat behind the stile , moved hand on the crossbar and stepped back .
 And right then hand his slipped and slid , foot unimpeded , as on ice cobbled air , went down the to the rails , the other was thrust , and Berlioz was thrown to the rails .
 Trying something gold-tinged to get , Berlioz fell backwards backwards , lightly the his striking the cobbles , and had see , but right or left he longer no knew - the gold-tinged gold-tinged moon .
 He managed to turn his on side , frenzied at movement in the same moment drawing legs to his stomach , , and , while turning , make out on him with irresistible force completely white the with crimson woman driver and crimson armband .
 Berlioz not did cry , but around him desperate female voices screamed whole street .
 The tore the electric brake , the car tore dug nose into ground , then instantly jumped up , and with a a and jingle from the windows flew glass .
 Here in 's brain Berlioz someone desperately cried : 'Can it ? ... '
 Once for more , and the last time , flashed the moon , but now breaking pieces to , and then became it dark .
 The tram-car went over Berlioz , and below the fence Patriarch 's walk was thrown the cobbled slope a round dark object . Having rolled back down this slope , it bouncing along cobblestones Berlioz street .
 It was the severed head Berlioz .
 The died hysterical women 's cries whistles , the whistles drilling police , two ambulances ambulances drove - one the headless body and severed head to morgue , the other wounded by broken glass the beautiful street sweepers in white sweepers aprons removed the pools and poured the blood pools , but Ivan Nikolaevich dropped on the reaching turnstile , as just stayed to it .
 several his times He tried get up , but legs him not would obey with Homeless occurred something akin to paralysis .
 The poet had rushed rushed the to turnstile as the first scream , and had seen the head bouncing along pavement .
 With that he so lost that , having dropped to the , he his hand until bench .
 about mad the German he Of course , forgot and tried to figure only one : how it could be that just he been talking with Berlioz , and a moment later the head ...
 Agitated people went running past poet the walk , something exclaiming , but Ivan Nikolaevich their words insensible was insensible .
 However unexpectedly near him , ran two women , and one of them , sharp-nosed and bare-headed , shouted right next ear poet other following :
 ' ... Annushka , our Annushka ! From Sadovaya !
 It her work ...
 bought She at grocery sunflower sunflower oil , litre-bottle the and ! whole Messed skirt Messed ... her swore and swore
 And he - , poor man , must have , slipped and to rails ...
 Of all the shouted woman in upset brain Ivan Nikolaevich 's lodged one word : 'Annushka 'Annushka ' ... 'Annushka 'Annushka ...
 Annushka ? ... the muttered poet , anxiously looking . Wait a minute , wait a minute ... '
 The word 'Annushka 'Annushka ' got strung the words 'sunflower 'sunflower oil ' , and then for some 'Pontius 'Pontius Pilate ' .
 The Pilate poet dismissed and began linking up the chain that started from word ` Annushka ' . And chain this got linked up very quickly and at once led to mad the professor .
 Excuse me !
 But he did say the meeting n't take place because Annushka spilled the oil .
 And , if you please , it n't take place ! What 's more , he straight said out that Berlioz 's would be cut off head a woman ? !
 Yes , yes , yes ! And the was woman ! !
 What is this all ? eh !
 There was not a grain of doubt left that the mysterious consultant exact had known beforehand the picture of terrible death Berlioz .
 Here two thoughts pierced 's brain poet .
 The first : 'He 'He 's in not mad , all nonsense ! ' the And second : Then did set up n't he it himself ? ! '
 'But , we ask what manner ? ! Ah , no , this we find out ! '
 Making a great effort , Ivan Nikolaevich got up from the bench and rushed back to to the where he talking with professor .
 And turned out that man , the , yet not had left .
 The Bronnaya already were lit street lights , and over the Ponds shone the golden moon , and in the the moon ever-deceptive ever-deceptive ever-deceptive light of to Ivan Nikolaevich it seemed , that he stood , holding under walking arm not a stick , a sword .
 The ex-choirmaster was sitting in the very place where where had sat just recently Ivan Nikolaevich .
 Now the busybody perched pince-nez his on nose an obviously unnecessary unnecessary pince-nez , in which one lens altogether missing was and the other was cracked .
 This the checkered citizen made even more repulsive than been when when showed Berlioz the way to the rails .
 With chill his heart , Ivan approached the professor and , glancing his into face , became convinced that any signs of madness not and never been .
 'Confess 'Confess , who you are ? ' hollow asked Ivan .
 The foreigner the scowled , looked at as for if he first seeing him poet , and answered inimically :
 'No 'No understand ... Russian speak . ..
 The n't do understand , mixed from the bench the choirmaster , though him no one had asked explain the 's words foreigner .
 'Do n't 'Do pretend ! ' threateningly said Ivan and felt stomach cold in the pit , . 'You 'You just now spoke excellent Russian .
 You not a German and not professor !
 You a murderer and spy ! ...
 Your papers ! ' fiercely cried Ivan .
 The mysterious professor squeamishly twisted with his twisted then shrugged shrugged shoulders .
 `` 'Citizen choirmaster ! again butted loathsome choirmaster foreign . `` What 're doing bothering tourist ?
 For that you 'll incur incur punishment ! ' And the suspicious professor made arrogant face , turned and walked from Ivan .
 Ivan felt himself .
 Breathless , he addressed the the choirmaster :
 'Hey 'Hey , citizen , help me detain the criminal !
 your It duty ! '
 The choirmaster extraordinarily became , jumped and hollered :
 ` What criminal ?
 Where is he ?
 A foreign criminal ? ' eyes The choirmaster gleefully sparkled . one ?
 If he a criminal , the first is shout shout Help ! ''
 Or else he get away .
 Come one , together ! !  and here the choirmaster opened his maw .
 Totally , Ivan obeyed the trickster and shouted 'Help 'Help ! ' but the choirmaster him bluffed and anything not bluffed shout .
 's solitary , hoarse cry Ivan good results not did produce .
 Two girls shied away from him , and he heard the word 'drunk 'drunk ' .
 `` 'Ah , so you with him in ! `` cried waxing out wroth , cried waxing Ivan . you What are doing , jeering at me ?
 Out of way !
 Ivan dashed dashed to right , and the choirmaster the ; Ivan to left , and the scoundrel the same .
 ` Getting under my feet purpose ? ` '
 Ivan attempted attempted to hand grab blackguard by sleeve , but cried and precisely nothing caught the choirmaster earth fell through .
 Ivan gasped , looked into the distance and saw the hateful stranger . He was was already at exit to Patriarch 's Lane , ; , not alone .
 The than dubious choirmaster managed to join him .
 But that was still not all : the third in this company proved be a tom-cat , who huge , as hog soot , black as hog soot or rook , and with a desperate cavalryman 's whiskers .
 The trio set off down Patriarch 's , the cat walking his on hind legs .
 Ivan sped after the villains and at once became convinced that catch up them would very be difficult .
 The trio in shot down the lane and came out on Spiridonovka .
 No how Ivan quickened pace , the distance between his and him never diminished .
 And before poet the knew it , after quiet of Spiridonovka he emerged the Spiridonovka Nikitsky Gate , where situation his worsened . The swarming with was swarming . the villains here decided to apply the of bandits trick getaway a getaway scattered .
 The choirmaster with great dexterity bored his to a bus , speeding towards the Arbat Square , and slipped .
 Having lost one of his quarries , Ivan focused his attention on the cat and saw this strange cat go up to footboard of handrail tram ' A ' , waiting at a stop , brazenly elbow grab the a woman , screamed into and even make an attempt to shove the conductress conductress through open on account of stuffiness window .
 behaviour cat so was struck by Ivan , that he he motionless froze by the grocery store on the and here second time , but much more strongly , was struck by behaviour the conductress .
 she soon as she saw the cat getting into tram-car with a malice that even her , shouted shake :
 'No cats 'No allowed !
 with cats Nobody allowed !
 Scat !
 Get off I , or the police call ! '
 Neither conductress nor the passengers were struck by the the essence matter : not just that a cat was a tram-car , which been have , but , that he was going to pay !
 The cat turned not only a but but also disciplined animal .
 At first very shout the conductress , he halted his advance , got off the footboard and sat at the , rubbing his piece whiskers .
 But soon the conductress yanked the cord and the tram-car started off , the cat acted like anyone who been expelled from tram-car but still a ride needs . Letting himself all three cars , the cat jumped to of last one , paws wrapped around some paws hose sticking out the side , and , saving thus thus ten kopecks .
 Occupied obnoxious cat , Ivan almost almost lost the main one of the three professor .
 But , fortunately , the man not managed to slip away . Ivan saw the grey beret in throng head at the of Bolshaya Bolshaya Nikitskaya , now Herzen , .
 In the , Ivan himself arrived there . However he luck no had . The poet pace trot quicken his break , shove , yet an inch not to the professor .
 Upset was Upset Ivan , still was struck the supernatural speed of the chase . Twenty seconds not had gone , when after the Nikitsky Gate Ivan Nikolayevich was already dazzled by the the Arbat Square .
 Another few seconds , and here was some dark lane sidewalks with slanting sidewalks , where Ivan Nikolaevich took a tumble and hurt knee .
 Again a thoroughfare Street Kropotkin , then lane , then Ostozhenka another lane , dismal , vile and sparsely lit . And it lit-up here that Ivan Nikolaevich definitively definitively lost him whom needed he so much . The professor disappeared .
 Ivan Nikolaevich was perplexed , but not for long , because he suddenly realized that that the professor unfailingly must be found in house . 15 and most assuredly in no apartment 47 .
 Bursting into the entrance , Ivan Nikolaevich flew up to second the floor , immediately found the apartment and rang impatiently .
 not long . opened the Ivan door about little girl of five and , without without asking him for , immediately somewhere went away anything somewhere .
 In huge weakly , weakly neglected front extremely lit tiny lamp under tiny high black with grime , on hall wall hung a bicycle without tyres , stood huge trunk iron-bound iron-bound , and on coat over the rack lay a winter trunk hat , long ear-flaps its ear-flaps hanging down .
 Behind one of the doors resonant male voice a radio set was shouting something shouting verse .
 Ivan Nikolaevich the not was in unfamiliar surroundings and straight rushed into the corridor , reasoning thus : 'Of he 'Of course , hiding in the bathroom ' .
 The corridor was dark . Having bumped into wall , Ivan saw a faint streak of light under the a door , felt for the handle and gently pulled it .
 The hook popped out , and Ivan found himself precisely in the bathroom and thought how lucky he was .
 However his was not luck , might it been !
 Ivan met with a humid humid and , by light of the coals smouldering in the boiler , a made out big basins hanging on the walls , and bath tub , all black frightful blotches chipped enamel .
 And there , in this bath tub , stood a naked citizeness , all a soapy and with scrubber in hand .
 She near-sightedly squinted at bursting-in Ivan and , obviously obviously mistaking in infernal infernal light , She said softly and infernal gaily :
 'Kiriushka 'Kiriushka !
 Stop your this tomfoolery ! Have you mind lost ? ...
 Fyodor Ivanych will be back minute .
 Get right now ! ' and waved at Ivan with scrubber .
 The misunderstanding was evident Nikolaevich , and Nikolaevich for it was , of course , Ivan Nikolaevich .
 But admit it he not did want and , exclaiming reproachfully : 'Ah 'Ah , wanton creature ! ... ' , at once for found himself in the kitchen .
 there No one No was , and on oven in semi-darkness stood silently about a dozen extinguished primuses . '
 A single moonbeam moonbeam , having seeped through sparsely the dusty , perennially unwashed unwashed window , shone sparsely shone the corner , where in dust and cobwebs hung forgotten icon , its the ends two casing candles .
 Under big the icon pinned hung a little one made paper .
 No one No knows what what here thought took hold of Ivan , but but before before running out the door , he appropriated one of these candles , as as well the paper icon .
 With With these objects he left unknown the apartment bathroom , muttering embarrassed at muttering thought of the of what he had just experienced in bathroom , involuntarily embarrassed trying guess who might be this impudent Kiriushka and him whether belonged disgusting hat with ear-flaps .
 In desolate , joyless lane poet looked around searching , for fugitive , but he nowhere be was .
 Then Ivan firmly said to himself : 'Why 'Why of course , he at the Moscow River !
 Onward !
 Someone ought perhaps , , have asked Ivan Nikolaevich why he supposed that professor was at the Moscow River and and not some in other place . But trouble was that ask him was no one . The lane was completely empty .
 In the very shortest time could be seen Ivan Nikolaevich on the granite steps of the amphitheatre Moscow River .
 Having taken off his clothes , Ivan entrusted them to a pleasant bearded fellow , smoking beside hand-rolled torn white cigarette blouse and hand-rolled unlaced unlaced worn boots .
 After waving arms to cool off , Ivan swallow-fashion his dived into water .
 his It took away in him , was the water , and flashed even the thought that not he might manage to come up to the surface .
 However he manage , and , puffing and snorting , rounded in terror his eyes , Ivan Nikolaevich began swimming through the , oil-smelling black oil-smelling water among the broken of zigzags the bank zigzags street lights .
 When the wet Ivan came dancing the steps to the place where where was guarding the guarding bearded fellow his clothes , it became clear that been stolen not only latter , but also former - that is himself bearded fellow .
 exact In the spot where the pile pile clothes , been left a striped drawers , the Tolstoy , candle , the icon and a box matches .
 After threatening in powerless anger someone in distance , Ivan put on what was left him .
 Here him began trouble two considerations : first , , that was card Massolit , with which he never never parted , and , second , manage whether he the looking unhindered get through Moscow ? , In striped drawers ...
 True , it 's business , but still nobody there be might some hitch or delay .
 Ivan tore off the buttons where the fastened at drawers , figuring , that might this way they pass for summer trousers , gathered up icon candle , candle and the and started off , saying to himself : 'To 'To Griboedov !
 Beyond all doubt , he 's there . '
 city already was its evening life .
 through Trucks dust flew clanking sacks , Trucks sacks and on platforms on sprawled belly , lay men .
 All windows were open . In each of these windows a burned light under an orange lampshade , and from every window , every door gateway , every gateway attic and , basement courtyard and courtyard blared the hoarse the roar polonaise from opera Evgeny Onegin the .
 apprehensions Ivan Nikolaevich fully proved justified : passers-by did pay to him attention and turned their .
 As a result he took decision leave the main streets and make way through lanes , where not so importunate people , where fewer there chances them are picking a barefoot man , pestering him with questions about drawers , which stubbornly refused were look like trousers .
 Ivan This did penetrating the mysterious network the Arbat lanes and began penetrating way hiding along the walls glances fearful , sidelong moment , hiding in gateways traffic avoiding intersections with lights and the entrances of embassy mansions .
 And all along his he difficult way inexpressibly , reason was the ubiquitous orchestra that ubiquitous the heavy basso accompanied singing about his love for Tatiana .
 The old two-storeyed two-storeyed cream-coloured house cream-coloured cream-coloured stood on the boulevard in depths a seedy garden , separated from the sidewalk by a cast-iron cast-iron fence .
 The small terrace front the house was paved , and in wintertime wintertime in it was a pile with pile shovel , but in summertime summertime turned into the most magnificent section summer the restaurant under a canvas tent .
 house was called The House of Griboedov ' on the grounds grounds that was have once it belonged to aunt writer ` Alexander Sergeevich Griboedov .
 , whether did or not did belong her , we it not do know .
 recollection seems even , that recollection , any such house-owning aunt Griboedov never had ...
 Nevertheless , the house was called .
 Moreover Moreover , one Moscow liar had it that on second floor , , in round a hall with columns , the famous writer had read passages from Woe From Wit this very aunt while she reclined on sofa . However , he knows , maybe , , no importance it .
 What is important is that at present time was owned this house by that same Massolit headed which been by unfortunate Mikhail Alexandrovich Berlioz before his appearance at Patriarch 's the Ponds .
 In casual manner members Massolit , one no called the house The House of Griboedov ' , everyone said simply 'Griboedov 'Griboedov ' : ' I spent yesterday two hours knocking about Griboedov 's ' 'Well 'Well and so ? '
 ` in Yalta a month Got ' .
 'Bravo 'Bravo ! '
 Or : 'Go 'Go to Berlioz 's , he today from four to five receives at Griboedov ... ' and so on .
 Massolit settled itself at Griboedov in best and cosiest imaginable .
 Anyone all entering Griboedov acquainted became acquainted involuntarily with the announcements various sports of clubs and with group , well as individual photographs of members of Massolit , ( the photographs ) walls the staircase leading to second the floor .
 On to first room of this upper floor see a big sign 'Fishing 'Fishing and Vacation Vacation Section ' , with along picture of carp a caught on a .
 On door of the room . 2 was written something not quite comprehensible : 'One-day 'One-day Creative Trips .
 Apply Spurioznaya to M. V . Spurioznaya ' .
 The next door bore a brief but but now totally incomprehensible inscription : 'Perelygino 'Perelygino ' .
 After which the chance visitor Griboedov 's would know look from the inscriptions on 's walnut walnut motley doors : ` Sign Paper for with Poklevkina ' , 'Personal Cashier ' , 'Personal 'Personal Accounts of Sketch-Writers ' ...
 If cut through the longest line , which went already downstairs the doorman , one could see the sign on lodge door a which every were crashing people 'Housing 'Housing Question ' .
 Beyond the housing question there opened a luxurious poster on which depicted a cliff and on crest its riding , a horseman in cloak with a rifle on cloak shoulder .
 A lower - palm trees and balcony ; on balcony - a seated young man with a forelock , gazing somewhere aloft with very lively eyes , holding in hand a pen .
 The inscription : 'Full-scale 'Full-scale Creative Vacations from Two Weeks ( Story/Novella ) to One Year ( Novel/Trilogy Novel/Trilogy Novel/Trilogy ) . . Yalta , Suuk-Su , Borovoe Tsikhidziri , Makhindzhauri , Leningrad ( Winter Palace ) 'There .
 the house Next came the , whimsical curves descents , 'Cashiers nos Massolit 'Cashiers .
 Room of Massolit ' , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ' , 'Billiard 'Editorial Board ' 'Chairman 'Chairman ' 'Billiard , various auxiliary auxiliary institutions and finally , that same hall with colonnade the where aunt had delighted comedy genius the aunt nephew .
 Any visitor , unless he of course , was a total dim-wit would finding himself in Griboedov , once realize what good fellows those lucky fellows members 's Massolit , and black envy would start at immediately gnawing at him .
 And immediately he address to heaven bitter reproaches for having not endowed him at endowed birth with literary talent , lacking which naturally no was dreaming owning a membership Massolit card , brown , smelling costly leather , with gold a wide border - known to all Moscow card .
 Who will speak in defence of envy ?
 This feeling nasty nasty category , but all one must put in the position visitor .
 For what he had seen on the upper floor , was not all and far from all .
 The entire ground of floor the aunt house was occupied by a restaurant , and what a restaurant !
 justly It was considered the best in Moscow . And not only because because it up two vast halls with arched ceilings , painted shaded violet shawl with Assyrian-maned , not only because because on each table there stood lamp shawl , not only because , it not was to anybody coming in anybody off street , but but because because in quality its fare Griboedov 's beat any restaurant in Moscow , , and this fare available at most reasonable , by means no onerous , price .
 Hence there was nothing surprising in the most following conversation , which once the heard author of these truthful lines near cast-iron the fence of Griboedov : 'Where 'Where today dining , Amvrosy ?
 ` Why a question , of course , here , dear Foka ! !
 Archibald Archibaldovich whispered me today that that will perch . A virtuoso little treat ! '
 ` You to live , Amvrosy ! ' with a sigh replied skinny , run-down plump-cheeked with carbuncle on neck Foka ruddy-lipped giant golden-haired , golden-haired , plump-cheeked Amvrosy-the-poet .
 ` no knowledge special I have , ` protested Amvrosy , 'just the ordinary wish to live like human being .
 You mean say , Foka , that perch can be met with well at the the Coliseum .
 But at the Coliseum a portion of perch costs thirteen roubles fifteen kopecks , and here - five-fifty five-fifty !
 Besides Besides , at the Coliseum they serve three-day-old , and , besides besides , there 's 's no guarantee , you n't get at the Coliseum slapped a grapes the mug by first young man who bursts in from Theatre Alley .
 No 'm , I categorically opposed the to Coliseum , the boomed the whole boulevard gastronome Amvrosy .
 'Do n't try convince me , Foka ! '
 ' I not trying convince you , Amvrosy , squeaked Foka .
 'One 'One home can also dine . '
 ` humbly you , trumpeted Amvrosy , ` imagine imagine your wife , , trying to do order in saucepan in communal kitchen home a perch perch saucepan !
 Hee , hee , hee ! ...
 Aurevwar , Foka ! ' And , humming , Amvrosy directed his to veranda under tent . Ahh , yes ... Yes , there , was ! ...
 will remember Old Muscovites Muscovites the renowned Griboedov !
 What is poached order poached perch !
 Cheap stuff , my dear Amvrosy !
 But sterlet , sterlet in silvery chafing dish , sterlet slices tails interlaid with crayfish tails and fresh caviar ?
 And eggs en cocotte with mushroom puree mushroom puree in mushroom little dishes ?
 And fillets of thrush you like ?
 With truffles ? Quail a la genoise ?
 Nine-fifty !
 And the jazz , and the courteous service !
 And in July , when whole family in country veranda , and you urgent literary business kept in city - on the veranda , in shade of the creeping vines tablecloths , in golden a spot on cleanest tablecloths a bowl soup printanier ?
 Remember , Amvrosy ?
 But why ask !
 I lips your see by that you do . What your your whitefish , perch !
 But , snipe snipe , quail , jack snipe in season , woodcock , curlew ?
 Cool fizzing in throat seltzer ? !
 But enough , you are getting distracted , reader !
 Follow me ! ...
 At half ten on the evening when Berlioz died at Patriarch Ponds , at Griboedov upstairs was lit only one room , and in it languished twelve writers who gathered were for a meeting and waiting Mikhail Alexandrovich .
 Sitting on chairs , and on chairs tables , and even on two window-sills in the executive the Massolit seriously they suffered from heat .
 Not a single fresh breath air came through the open windows .
 Moscow was releasing accumulated all day in the asphalt the heat , and it clear was clear that night no would bring relief .
 The came onions from the basement of house , where was the restaurant kitchen work all smell , , all thirsty nervous and thirsty were angry .
 The belletrist Beskudnikov a quiet , decently dressed man with attentive and at the same time decently elusive eyes - took out watch .
 The crawling was crawling towards eleven .
 Beskudnikov tapped finger the face and showed him the poet Dvubratsky , who was sitting on the table and in boredom shod dangling in yellow shoes with treads rubber .
 'Anyhow 'Anyhow , ' grumbled Dvubratsky .
 `` The laddie the Klyazma stuck , `` thick-voiced thick-voiced came response of Nastasya Lukinishna Nepremenova , Moscow a merchant orphan , who become writer and wrote about sea stories under the pen-name of Bos'n George .
 'Excuse 'Excuse me ! ' boldly exclaimed author of popular sketches Zagrivov , 'but I 'but would personally on balcony a tea in , here stewing .
 , The meeting was was set for ten ?
 'It 'It now nice on Klyazma , needled those present Bos'n George , knowing , that , the writers colony Perelygino on Klyazma country sore spot .
 'There 'There 's nightingales singing already .
 I always better work the in country , especially especially in spring . '
 'It 'It third year 's paid goitre so to my wife send to this paradise , but there 's nothing the waves be 's spied , ' venomously and bitterly said the novelist Ieronym Poprikhin .
 'Some 'Some and some are , ' droned from the window-sill critic Ababkov .
 Bos'n lit up with little glee Bos'n Bos'n George 's , and she said , softening her contralto :
 n't must , comrades envious .
 dachas There twenty-two twenty-two , and 's being built more only seven , and us in Massolit three thousand . '
 ` Three thousand one hundred , ` put in from corner .
 'So 'So you see , Bos'n the Bos'n , 'what 'what can be done ?
 Naturally , that dachas got most talented of us ...
 'The 'The generals ! ' cut into squabble Glukharev the scenarist .
 Beskudnikov , an artificial yawn , walked out of the room .
 'Five himself to 'Five rooms in Perelygino , behind him said Glukharev .
 ` Lavrovich has six , ` cried out Deniskin , ` and 's panelled dining panelled oak ! '
 'Eh 'Eh , now not 's the point , droned Ababkov , 's 'it that half past eleven . '
 A arose clamour , was brewing something like rebellion brewing .
 They started telephoning hated Perelygino , got the wrong dacha , Lavrovich 's , found out that Lavrovich had gone to river , which totally them upset .
 They called to the commission fine literature on extension 950 and of course , no one there no found .
 'He 'He might have called ! ' shouted Deniskin , Glukharev and Quant .
 Ah , were shouting they in : not could Mikhail Alexandrovich shouting call anywhere .
 Far , far from Griboedov 's , in enormous room , lit thousand-watt bulbs , on three zinc tables lay what what still had recently been Mikhail Alexandrovich Alexandrovich .
 On first blood , body , naked dried arm chest dried caved ; on second , head with the knocked dull front teeth , with dull open eyes the brightest light ; and on the third , a stiffened stiffened rags .
 Near the beheaded stood a professor of forensic medicine anatomist , pathological anatomist and his dissector , , representatives the investigation and summoned by telephone from his sick wife assistant Mikhail Alexandrovich Alexandrovich in Massolit the writer Zheldybin .
 A car had come for Zheldybin the and first together with investigators taken him ( around midnight this was ) to the apartment dead man , where had been carried the sealing his papers , after which all they went to morgue .
 And now those standing by remains of the deceased were debating what better do : sew the severed head to neck chin or to lay body in the Griboedov hall at , after simply covering snugly dead man snugly the to black cloth ?
 No , Mikhail Alexandrovich not could call anywhere , and quite being indignant and were shouting Deniskin , Glukharev and Glukharev Quant with Beskudnikov .
 Exactly at midnight all twelve writers , left the upper floor and descended to the restaurant .
 Here again silently they berated Mikhail Alexandrovich : all tables veranda on the veranda , naturally , were occupied , and had to stay supper in those beautiful but but airless halls .
 And exactly , at midnight in first of these something crashed jangled , spilled , spilled , leaped .
 And all once high male voice desperately cried the music . 'Hallelujah 'Hallelujah ! ! ' The famous Griboedov jazz band .
 Sweat-covered Sweat-covered faces brighten , seemed seemed if came on the ceiling painted shine the horses , the lamps light , and suddenly , as if tearing loose halls , broke into both halls , and following them broke into the veranda .
 danced Glukharev with the poetess Tamara Polumesyats , danced Quant , danced Zhukopov the novelist actress with some movie in a yellow dress .
 danced Dragunsky , Cherdakchi , enormous Deniskin with the Bos'n George , danced beautiful architect Semeikina-Gall , the a stranger in white canvas trousers .
 danced and invited Locals , Muscovites and out-of-towners , writer Johann from Kronstadt , a Vitya Kuftik from Rostov , , stage director , with a spot all his cheek , danced most eminent representatives the poetry section of Massolit that is Baboonov , Blasphemsky , Sweetkin Smatchstik , Sweetkin Smatchstik and Addphina Buzdyak , unknown profession young men in , with cotton-padded stuck shred cheek shoulders stuck beard , danced danced a anaemia-consumed very sickly anaemia-consumed green onion , danced with him sickly , anaemia-consumed cotton-padded girl in a wrinkled wrinkled silk orange dress .
 Streaming , waiters carried over their heads sweating mugs with beer hoarsely , and with hatred shouting : 'Excuse 'Excuse me , citizen ! ' Somewhere through a megaphone voice commanded : ` One Karsky ! shashlik Zubrovkas Two ! Zubrovkas Home-style ! '
 The high voice longer no sang , but howled 'Hallelujah 'Hallelujah ! ' The clashing clashing golden cymbals in the band sometimes even drowned clashing dishes , which dishwashers sloping a chute sent down to dishwashers the kitchen .
 hell - .
 And came at midnight an apparition in hell .
 stepped the veranda A handsome dark-eyed man with a dagger-like beard tailcoat , in and regal glance cast over his domain .
 They used , say the mystics , that was time a when the handsome man not wore a , but a wide leather tailcoat belt from it sticking pistol butts , and his raven hair was tied with scarlet scarlet silk , and a sailed the Caribbean under his command brig under black a flag crossbones with a crossbones .
 But no , no !
 The seductive mystics are , no Caribbean Seas corvette in the world no chases them desperate freebooters , no drifts after them corvette , no drifts across the waves cannon cannon smoke .
 There is nothing , and nothing there was !
 There that sickly linden is , is cast-iron fence and beyond it the boulevard ...
 And is melting ice melting in the bowl , and see at the next table bloodshot 're 's bovine bloodshot eyes , and afraid , afraid ...
 Oh gods poison , gods my , , poison ! ...
 And suddenly some table a fluttered word : 'Berlioz 'Berlioz ! ! '
 The jazz broke up and , as if someone hit it a fist .
 'What 'What , what , what , what ? ! ! '
 'Berlioz 'Berlioz ! ! ! '
 And they jumping up exclaiming , began exclaiming ...
 Yes , billowed a wave grief the grief terrible news about Mikhail Alexandrovich Alexandrovich .
 Someone about fussed , crying that necessary once , straight away , without leaving the spot , to compose some collective telegram and immediately send off it .
 But what telegram , may ask we , and where ?
 And why it send ?
 And indeed , where ?
 And someone need for what possible any telegram , whose flattened pate clutched now in 's hands the dissector , whose neck now piercing with curved needles professor ?
 's dead He , and no has need of any telegrams .
 It 's over , not 's more burden the telegraph wires .
 Yes , dead , dead ... But we 're 're alive !
 Yes , a billowed up wave grief , but held out , then began to subside , and somebody - back went to his table and sneakily first sneakily a , then openly drank vodka bite and ate .
 And , really , one can perish chicken cutlets de volatile perish ?
 How we help Mikhail Alexandrovich Alexandrovich ? By going hungry hungry ?
 But after , we 're 're alive !
 Naturally , the piano was locked , the band dispersed , several journalists left for their offices to write obituaries obituaries .
 It became known that that come from morgue Zheldybin . He installed himself in office the deceased upstairs , and once the rumour that that he who would replace Berlioz .
 Zheldybin summoned from from the restaurant all twelve members board , and at urgently convened in 's office Berlioz convened meeting they started a discussion pressing of questions of decorating the Griboedov hall , of transporting body from morgue to that hall , of opening to it and else , connected with the sad event .
 And the restaurant began live its usual nocturnal life and living would it until closing time , that is until four o'clock morning , had have not occurrence an occurrence completely out ordinary and which struck the restaurant 's clientele much more than the news 's of death Berlioz . The first were coachmen the waiting at the gates Griboedov house .
 , One of them , rising on his box was cry : 'Hoo-ee 'Hoo-ee that ! Just look at !
 After which , where knows , by cast-iron the fence a flashed light and began to approach the veranda .
 Those sitting at the tables began get and up peer it and saw , that along with the marching was marching towards the restaurant a white ghost .
 When it came up to the trellis , everybody everybody sat frozen at tables sterlet , chunks sterlet on forks popping eyes .
 The doorman , who stepped at that moment out coatroom the restaurant yard to , stamped cigarette the and made for ghost with obvious intention barring its way into the restaurant , but for reason not do so and stopped , stupidly smiling .
 And the ghost , passing through the trellis , unhindered stepped the veranda .
 Here everyone saw that that it was no ghost , but Ivan Nikolaevich Homeless much-renowned poet .
 He was barefoot , in , whitish blouse , the breast pinned paper icon bearing the image an unknown saint , and wearing striped white drawers .
 In his hand Ivan Nikolaevich carried a lighted candle . 's right cheek Ivan Nikolaevich was freshly scratched .
 It would even plumb the depths the silence that reigned on the veranda .
 could be seen one waiter Beer running tilted from on a mug to floor .
 The poet raised candle over his head and loudly said :
 'Hail 'Hail , friends ! ' After which peeked under the nearest table and exclaimed ruefully : 'No 'Hail 'No , he there not ! '
 were heard Two voices . basso said pitilessly frightened : ' Delirium it . tremens . And the second , woman 's , frightened , uttered words :
 'How 'How could the police let him the streets that like ? '
 This Ivan Nikolaevich Nikolaevich heard and replied :
 They twice They tried detain , in Skaterny and here , on Bronnaya , but I hopped over fence and , as you see , cheek cut ! ' Here Ivan Nikolaevich raised the candle and cried out : 'Brethren 'Brethren in literature ! '
 ( hoarse voice His stronger and grew fervent . ) 'Listen 'Listen to me everyone !
 He appeared .
 Catch him immediately , otherwise he 'll do untold harm ! '
 'What 'What ? What ? What he say ?
 Who has appeared ? ' came voices from all sides .
 The , ` replied Ivan , ` and this consultant consultant just killed at Patriarch Ponds Misha Berlioz . '
 Here from the inner rooms flocking people , around Ivan 's flame gathered a flame .
 ` Excuse me , excuse me , Excuse more precise , `` a said over ear Ivan soft and polite 's voice , `` 'tell me , what mean killed ?
 Who killed ? ' A foreign consultant , , professor and spy looking , said around Ivan .
 'And 'And what his name ? ' softly came 's to Ivan ear .
 ' That 's his name ! in anguish cried anguish Ivan . 'If 'If only I knew his name !
 n't make out I his name on his visiting card ...
 I remember only first the letter , W '' , `` W his name name ! ?
 clutching forehead his forehead , himself asked Ivan and suddenly started muttering : 'Wi 'Wi , wa , ... Wo ...
 Washner ?
 Wagner ?
 Weiner ?
 Wegner ?
 Winter ? ' The hair on 's head Ivan began crawl with the tension .
 'Wolf 'Wolf ? ' pitifully cried some woman .
 Ivan became angry .
 `` 'Fool ! cried he , seeking with his eyes cried woman . `` What has it Wolf got ?
 Wolf not 's blame !
 Wo , wa ... No , never I remember !
 Here 's what , citizens : call let them the police , to send out catch five motor cycles machine-guns with , professor .
 And n't forget to tell that with him others two : a long one , cracked ... pince-nez ... and a cat black , fat
 And I meanwhile search Griboedov I sense , that he here !
 Ivan became anxious , pushed the people , started waving pouring candle wax , pouring himself , and looking under the tables .
 Here someone said : ` Call doctor ! ' ` and someone horn-rimmed 's benign fleshy face , and well nourished , in horn-rimmed glasses , appeared before Ivan .
 'Comrade 'Comrade Homeless , ' began in the face guest 's voice , 'calm 'calm down !
 You upset at death our beloved Mikhail of Alexandrovich ... no , say just Misha Berlioz .
 We all that perfectly understand . You need rest .
 The comrades take home you to bed , you forget ... '
 `` 'You , interrupted baring , baring Ivan , `` but understand do you that has to the be caught professor ?
 And you come at me with your foolishness ! Cretin ! '
 ` Comrade Homeless , Pardon me the ` replied face , , blushing retreating and already blushing repentant , got mixed up in this affair .
 'No 'No , you anyone else , but I not pardon , ' with quiet hatred said Ivan Nikolaevich .
 A spasm distorted his face , he quickly shifted the candle from his right hand to left , roundly swung roundly and hit compassionate face on the ear .
 Here it them fall upon Ivan - and they did .
 The candle went out , and glasses that had fallen from the face were instantly trampled .
 Ivan let out a terrible war cry , heard to the temptation even on the boulevard , and set defending himself .
 fell clattering clattering from the tables Dishes , screamed women .
 All while the waiters were tying poet napkins , in the coatroom was going a conversation between commander the brig and the doorman .
 'Did you see was he in underpants ? ' coldly inquired pirate .
 'But 'But 'But , Archibald Archibaldovich , ' cowering replied doorman , 'how 'how could I 's him not let in , if he member of Massolit ? '
 'Did you see was he in underpants ? the pirate .
 'Pardon 'Pardon me , Archibald Archibaldovich , , the said doorman , 'but what could I do ?
 I there understand , on the veranda ladies are sitting ... '
 ` Ladies it , it difference , replied pirate , literally burning with doorman his eyes , ` 'but the ladies police it does !
 A man in underwear can walk the streets of Moscow only in this one case , that he 's accompanied by the police , and only to one place the police station !
 And you , if doorman , ought ought know to that on seeing such a man , you must , without 's moment delay , start blowing whistle .
 Do you hear ?
 half-crazed doorman the heard from veranda hooting , the dishes and women 's screams .
 'Now 'Now , what with to done for that ? ' the asked freebooter .
 The skin on face the doorman acquired a typhoid tinge , his eyes dead .
 him It seemed that that black the hair , now combed parted and , was covered tucked flaming silk . disappeared The and , and a emerged tucked a butt pistol leather belt .
 The doorman pictured himself hanging the fore-topsail yard .
 eyes saw His his his own lifeless tongue and lifeless head sticking lolling on shoulder , and even heard the splash against the hull .
 The knees doorman gave way .
 But here the freebooter took pity on him and extinguished his sharp gaze .
 ` Watch out , Nikolai , ! this is the last time !
 We of such doormen in the restaurant no have .
 Go yourself a . ` Having said this , commander the commanded clearly , precisely , rapidly : ` Pantelei from the bar .
 Police . Protocol . car . To psychiatric . ' And added : 'Blow 'Blow whistle !
 In a quarter of an hour extremely astounded astounded an public not only in the restaurant but on the boulevard itself boulevard and in windows of houses looking on to garden the restaurant , saw the gates Riukhin Griboedov Pantelei , , policeman waiter , policeman the and poet Riukhin swaddled swaddled like a doll , young man who in aiming tears , spat , aiming precisely precisely at Riukhin and shouted : 'You
 ... You bastard !
 A truck-driver truck-driver with spiteful a face was starting his motor .
 Next a coachman rousing slapping his horse , , slapping it on croup violet the reins , shouted :
 'Have 'Have for run your money !
 I taken the to psychics ! '
 Around them buzzed the , discussing unprecedented the unprecedented event . , was , nasty , tempting , swinish swinish scandal , which ended only when when the truck carried away from the gates of Griboedov 's unfortunate Ivan Nikolaevich , policeman , Pantelei and Riukhin .
 when to the the famous psychiatric clinic , recently outskirts built of Moscow on bank the river a came out man with and wearing a white beard was half one the morning .
 Three orderlies had fastened eyes on Ivan Nikolaevich , who was sitting on a couch .
 there also was The extremely agitated poet Riukhin . The napkins with which had been Ivan Nikolaevich lay in pile on the same couch . arms and legs Ivan Nikolaevich were free .
 Seeing the entering man , Riukhin turned pale , coughed and timidly said : 'Hello 'Hello , Doctor . '
 doctor bowed to Riukhin but , as bowed , looked not at him but but at Ivan Nikolaevich . The latter sat perfectly perfectly motionless , with angry face , knitted brows , and even not did stir at 's entrance the doctor .
 'Here 'Here is , Doctor , ` for some 're mysterious whisper began speaking in Riukhin , glancing timorously glancing at Ivan Nikolaevich , ` the renowned poet Ivan Homeless ... well , you see ... we 're afraid afraid be delirium tremens ...
 'Was hard he drinking ? ' through his teeth the doctor .
 'No 'No he , drank , but not so , really ... 'Did , rats , cockroaches rats devils or slinking dogs he chase ?
 ` 'No Riukhin , a shudder ' replied Riukhin , ` I him yesterday saw and this yesterday morning . he was perfectly well ... '
 'And 'And why in he drawers ?
 him bed get ?
 he , Doctor , to the restaurant came to that way ...
 'Aha 'Aha , aha great satisfaction said doctor , 'and 'and why the scratches ?
 he fight ?
 'He 'He off fence fell , and then in the restaurant he hit somebody ... and then somebody somebody ...
 'Greetings 'Greetings , !
 ' spitefully and loudly replied Ivan .
 Riukhin was embarrassed that not he did raise his eyes to the courteous doctor .
 But the latter the least not offended , habitual deft deft movement took glasses , the glasses trousers , raised put them into the pocket coat trousers , and then asked Ivan : 'How 'How old you ?
 'You can go 'You all to devil the devil ! ' rudely shouted Ivan and turned away .
 'But 'But why are you angry ?
 Did I say to you anything unpleasant ?
 ' I twenty-three twenty-three years , excitedly began Ivan , 'and 'and I file a complaint against you all .
 And against you particularly particularly , louse ! ' adverted he separately to Riukhin .
 'And 'And what do you want to complain about ? '
 'About 'About fact the that I , a healthy man , was seized and by force dragged to a madhouse madhouse ! ' wrathfully wrathfully replied Ivan .
 Here Riukhin looked closely at Ivan and went cold : decidedly there insanity no was in in 's eyes .
 No dull as as they had been at Griboedov , they were now clear .
 ' 'So Good Riukhin ! ` fearfully Riukhin . ` 'So he 's normal !
 What nonsense nonsense !
 Why did we , in in fact , here him drag ?
 normal , normal , only mug got scratched ... '
 'You 'You are , ` calmly the began doctor , sitting down on white a stool madhouse with shiny foot , ` not in a madhouse , but in clinic , where you no one not will 's keep , if it 's necessary .
 Ivan Nikolaevich glanced him mistrustfully , but still grumbled : 'Thank 'Thank the Lord !
 turned up finally One normal man among the idiots , of whom the first goof Sashka that giftless Sashka ! '
 'Who 'Who this giftless Sashka ? ' inquired doctor .
 'This 'This one - Riukhin , replied Ivan his jabbing dirty finger in direction Riukhin 's .
 The latter flushed with indignation .
 'for That 's ! bitterly thought him , 'for , I showing for concern !
 What , really trash ! '
 'Psychologically a typical little kulak 'Psychologically , began 'Ivan Nikolaevich , , evidently , irresistible urge to denounce Riukhin , 'and 'and more a little kulak carefully disguising himself a proletarian .
 Look at his lenten physiognomy and compare with those resounding it verses , he wrote for First of - heh , heh , heh ...
 Soaring up ! ' and down ! '' ! But you look him inside and `` what he thinks ... you gasp ! `` And Ivan Nikolaevich sinister burst laughter .
 Riukhin heavily breathing , was turned red and thought just of one , that he warmed his on breast serpent , that he shown concern for a man who turned a vicious enemy .
 And above all , nothing there done was : no there arguing with mentally ill ! !
 ` And And why you , actually , brought here ? ` the asked doctor , after attentively listening denunciations Homeless .
 'Devil 'Devil them take the , numskulls !
 They seized me , tied up some with rags and dragged in a truck ! '
 'May 'May I ask you why to the restaurant came in your underwear ? '
 ` There surprising that , replied Ivan . ` went a I for swim the in Moscow River , and filched my clothes , so this trash they left !
 n't naked I around Moscow walk naked ! put it on because I was hurrying to Griboedov . '
 The doctor questioningly glanced at Riukhin , who glumly muttered : ` of the restaurant 'The name . ` Aha , ` said doctor , ` and why were such you a hurry ?
 Some business meeting ? '
 ' the consultant I catch Nikolaevich , said Ivan Nikolaevich and anxiously looked around .
 'What 'What consultant ? '
 'Do you Berlioz 'Do know ? ' asked Ivan significantly .
 ' The ... composer ? Ivan got upset .
 'What 'What composer ? Ah Ah , no .
 The composer has Misha Berlioz . '
 Riukhin no had wish anything say , but was to explain :
 The secretary of Massolit , Massolit Berlioz tonight was run tram-car Ponds at Patriarch .
 'Do n't blab you about what n't do know ! ' got angry with Riukhin Ivan . I , not you was there !
 He him under tram-car got ! '
 'Pushed 'Pushed him ? '
 ' him '' Pushed '' ! angered by the general obtuseness , exclaimed Ivan . 'His 'His to push n't need !
 He such stunts can perform - your hold to !
 He beforehand knew that that Berlioz would get under the tram-car ! '
 'And 'And anyone besides besides you did see this consultant ? '
 ' That 's the trouble , it just I and Berlioz .
 'So 'So .
 what measures you take to catch this murderer ? And '
 Here turned doctor and sent glance towards a white table at the coat .
 what measures . : took took I the kitchen candle ... ' 's That one ? ' the doctor , pointing to the broken candle , lying in on the table next to the icon front the woman .
 ' That very one , and ...
 'And 'And the icon why ? '
 'Ah 'Ah , yes , icon ...
 ` Ivan blushed . the icon of most all that frightened . ` He again jabbed finger in direction Riukhin . 'But the thing is that he , the consultant , he let 's speak directly ... ... the unclean powers is ... and easily him n't . '
 The orderlies for some reason snapped eyes to attention and fastened on Ivan .
 Yes , sirs , went Ivan , 'mixed 'mixed up them ! An fact absolute .
 He personally with Pontius Pilate spoke . And there 's no at me that to stare . telling ! everything He saw the balcony and palm trees .
 was short , at Pontius Pilate , for it I he vouch . '
 'Come 'Come , come ...
 'Well , so I the icon on chest pinned and ran ... Here clock suddenly struck twice twice .
 ` 'Oh-oh ! ` exclaimed Ivan and got up from couch . two o'clock , and I with you time 's wasting !
 me Excuse , where the telephone ? '
 'Let 'Let him use the telephone , the told doctor orderlies .
 Ivan grabbed the receiver , and woman meanwhile the meanwhile quietly asked Riukhin :
 'Is 'Is married he ?
 'Single 'Single , fearfully answered Riukhin .
 'Member 'Member of trade union ? '
 'Yes 'Yes .
 'Police 'Police ? ' shouted Ivan into the receiver . 'Police 'Police ?
 Comrade officer-on-duty , give orders to for be sent five cycles machine-guns with motor machine-guns to catch the foreign consultant .
 What ?
 Come pick up me , I with you go ...
 It 's the poet Homeless speaking from the madhouse ...
 What 's your address ? ' asked shouting Homeless the doctor , covering the receiver with , and then again shouting into whisper it : 'Are you 'Are listening ?
 Hello ! ...
 Outrageous ! suddenly screamed Ivan and hurled the receiver against the wall .
 Then he turned to the doctor , offered his him hand , drily said 'Goodbye 'Goodbye ' and made to leave .
 ` For pity , where do you intend to go ? ` the said doctor , peering into eyes underwear Ivan . the of night , in dead underwear ...
 You feeling 're well , stay with us . '
 ` Let me pass , ` said to Ivan orderlies , who closed at the door .
 'Will let me or not ? ' the a terrible voice shouted poet .
 Riukhin trembled , but woman pushed a button on table , and its glass surface popped shiny sealed box with a sealed ampoule .
 'Ah 'Ah , so ? ! around wild and turning with hunted , said Ivan . hunted ...
 Goodbye ! ' And head first he rushed into the window-blind .
 The was forceful crash , but the the glass behind crack gave , and in an instant Ivan was struggling in hands the the orderlies .
 He gasped , tried bite , shouted :
 'So 'So that 's you the of windows here got ! !
 Let go !
 Let me go ! A syringe syringe flashed in hand the doctor 's , the woman single movement slit the threadbare sleeve threadbare and seized the arm with unwomanly strength .
 There was smell ether , Ivan went limp in hands the four people , the deft doctor took of this moment and stuck the needle into arm Ivan 's .
 Ivan They held for another few seconds and and then lowered to the couch .
 'Bandits 'Bandits ! ' shouted Ivan and jumped up from couch , but was installed on it again .
 The moment him they let , he again up jumped , but back sat down himself .
 He paused , wildly gazing , then unexpectedly yawned , then yawned smiled maliciously maliciously .
 'Locked 'Locked after said he , yawned again , unexpectedly lay down , head put the on pillow , fist like under head muttered now sleepy in voice , without malice : 'Very , 'Very well ... ... you for all pay ... I warned , you do as you like I now most all interested in Pontius Pilate ...
 Pilate ... and he closed his eyes .
 ' bath , a private room and nurse to him , the ordered doctor his glasses .
 Here Riukhin again gave a start : noiselessly opened the white door , behind it could a seen corridor , lit by blue night-lights .
 Out the corridor rolled on rubber stretcher wheels a stretcher to which quieted Ivan , and he rolled down the corridor , and the door behind him closed .
 'Doctor 'Doctor , ' shaken Riukhin the asked shaken Riukhin , 'it he 'it means really 's ill ? '
 'Oh 'Oh yes , ' replied doctor . 'But 'But what 's wrong with him ? ' timidly the asked Riukhin . The tired doctor glanced at Riukhin and timidly listlessly answered : 'Locomotor 'Locomotor and speech excitation ... delirious excitation interpretations ... A case , it seems , complex ... .
 Schizophrenia , I suppose suppose . Plus this this alcoholism ...
 Riukhin nothing not understood the from words doctor , except that that things Ivan Nikolaevich evidently evidently . Riukhin sighed and He asked :
 'But 'But what 's this his all talk about 's some consultant ? '
 ` He seen somebody who struck his disturbed imagination .
 Or maybe a hallucination ...
 A few minutes later the truck was carrying Riukhin to Moscow .
 Day was , and light still the burning along highway street lights was now unnecessary unnecessary and unpleasant .
 The driver was vexed at having wasted night , drove the truck as fast , and skidded on the turns .
 Now the woods dropped off , stayed somewhere behind , and the river went somewhere somewhere the to side and gatherum the truck came spilling gatherum : fences with sentry and wood , tall posts spools and some poles , the poles strung of spools heaps , heaps rubble , earth by canals , sensed that she , Moscow , there , around the turn , and you heave herself and heave engulf .
 Riukhin was jolted and jolted tossed ; the sort of stump he placed himself trying slide out from under him .
 The restaurant the napkins , , left earlier by bus policeman and Pantelei , moved all around the flatbed .
 Riukhin tried to them collect , but then , hissing spitefully for some reason spitefully : 'Devil 'Devil take them !
 What I doing like fussing fool fussing ? ... ' spumed them with foot and he stopped at them looking .
 The 's rider 's was terrible .
 It was becoming clear that that his visit house of sorrow had left on him deepest mark .
 Riukhin tried to understand what him his tormenting . The corridor with blue lights , which stuck to memory ?
 The thought the that no greater misfortune than loss of reason is in world ?
 Yes , yes , of course , , too that . But that - only a general thought . But 's 's something else . What is it ?
 An insult , that 's what .
 Yes , yes , insulting words , hurled by Homeless right in face .
 And trouble not is that they were insulting , but the that in them there was truth .
 The poet no looked longer , but , staring into dirty , shaking floor , began something whining , muttering gnawing , muttering gnawing at himself .
 Yes , poetry ...
 He was thirty-two thirty-two years ! And indeed , what then ?
 So then go he would writing his several poems a year .
 Into old age ?
 Yes , into old age .
 What would bring him these poems ? Glory ?
 'What 'What nonsense !
 n't deceive yourself yourself .
 Glory never will come to someone someone who writes bad poems .
 What makes them bad ?
 The truth , the truth was ! mercilessly he himself Riukhin . n't do n't believe I in anything I telling write ! ... ' Poisoned by this burst neurasthenia , the poet swayed , the floor under him stopped shaking .
 Riukhin raised his head and saw that he been in Moscow and , more over Moscow dawn was , that the cloud underlit with gold , that truck his stopped , caught in column other vehicles at the turn to boulevard pedestal , and that close to him stood on pedestal a metal man , inclined head , indifference gazing at the boulevard .
 Some strange thoughts thoughts flooded the head ailing the poet .
 'There 'There 's example real luck ... Here Riukhin rose the to full height on flatbed of the truck and arm raised , attacking for cast-iron the anyone not bothering cast-iron man 'Whatever 'Whatever step he made in life , whatever happened to him , all turned his to benefit , all led to his glory !
 But what he do ?
 I n't conceive ...
 anything special there in the words : '' The snowstorm covers ... '' ?
 I do understand ! ...
 Luck , sheer luck ! ` venom concluded Riukhin and felt , the truck under him moving , ` shot him , shot smashed him that white guard , smashed his hip and assured immortality ... '
 The column began move .
 the completely ill and even aged poet no more than In two minutes , was the veranda of Griboedov .
 It now was empty .
 In a corner the was finishing some company , and in middle its was bustling the familiar master wearing skullcap , with a glass of Abrau in his hand .
 Riukhin , laden napkins , was met by Archibald Archibaldovich affably and at once relieved of the cursed rags .
 not Had Riukhin so worn out in clinic and on the truck , he have derived certainly pleasure from telling embellishing how everything had gone in the , and embellishing the the story with invented details .
 But then he was far from things , and , though little was observant Riukhin now , after the torture on the truck , he first keenly peered at pirate and realized that he asked about Homeless and even exclaimed 'Ai-yai-yai 'Ai-yai-yai ! ' , , essentially quite indifferent to 's fate Riukhin Homeless and a him not sorry .
 'And 'And bravo !
 Right you are ! ' with cynical , self-annihilating malice thought Riukhin and , breaking off the story about the schizophrenia , begged :
 ` Archibald a Archibaldovich , drop ...
 The pirate made a compassionate face and whispered :
 I understand ... this very minute ... and beckoned to a waiter .
 A later quarter of an hour Riukhin in complete solitude , sat , hunched over bream , hunched drinking glass after bream glass , understanding and recognizing that that to set in his life longer anything no possible , was possible only forget .
 The poet had wasted his night while while others were feasting feasting and now understood was that get back it impossible .
 One needed only to raise head from lamp the to sky to to understand that that the night was lost irretrievably .
 Waiters were hurriedly tearing the tablecloths from tablecloths tables .
 The cats slinking around the veranda had a morning look .
 upon the poet irresistibly heaved Day .
 If had the next morning Styopa Likhodeev been told : 'Styopa 'Styopa ! You shot if you this minute n't get up ! ' - Styopa replied have languid , barely audible in voice : 'Shoot 'Shoot me , do with me , what like I n't get up '
 Not not get up , him it seemed , that he not could open his eyes , because because if he were so to do , there lightning and head his at once be blown to pieces .
 A in that head was booming heavy bell , between eyeballs eyeballs and closed eyeballs rimmed floated brown fiery green spots eyelids with fiery , and to crown he nauseous , it seemed , nausea this being connected with the sounds some importunate gramophone .
 Styopa tried to something recall , but would recalled only one that , apparently , yesterday in and some unknown place he stood with a napkin in his hand and tried to kiss some lady , promising her that the next day , and exactly at noon , come to her visit .
 The lady had declined , saying : 'No 'No wo , no , I n't be home ! ' , but Styopa stubbornly had insisted : 'And 'And I 'll just anyway up and come ! '
 Who the was lady , and what now day , what , what month , Styopa decidedly not know he and , worst of all , not could figure out where he was .
 He attempted to learn at this and to that end unstuck the stuck-together lids his left eye .
 in semi-darkness Something the semi-darkness dully gleamed . Styopa finally recognized the pier-glass and realized that that he was lying on his in bed - that is , the former jeweller wife bed - in the bedroom .
 Here he such felt throbbing in head that he throbbing closed his eyes and moaned . Let us explain : Styopa Likhodeev , director Theatre the Variety , had come that morning in the very apartment , which he shared senses with the late Berlioz , in a big six-storeyed building on Sadovaya Street .
 It must be said said that apartment this no.50 no.50 - had long had if not a bad , , at least a strange reputation .
 still Two years years ago it to the widow jeweller de Fougeray . Anna Frantsevna de Fougeray , a fifty-year-old respectable and very respectable practical woman , three rooms the five let out lodgers : one whose last name whose was apparently Belomut , and another with a lost last name . And then two years years ago began in apartment inexplicable events : from this apartment people began to disappear .
 Once a on a day to the apartment policeman , came called the front second lodger ( last name whose got lost ) and said he a minute to come to the police station to something put .
 The lodger told Anfisa , and long-time devoted 's housekeeper housekeeper Anna Frantsevna , to say , in case case he would received calls , that he be back in ten minutes , and left together with white-gloved the policeman white-gloved white-gloved .
 did not come He not only in ten minutes , but all back never came . surprising thing was that The evidently with him along vanished the policeman .
 The pious , or more frankly speak frankly superstitious superstitious Anfisa outright declared she very the upset Anna Frantsevna that that it was sorcery and that she perfectly knew well who stolen both lodger and policeman , only towards night-time not did wish talk .
 Well , but sorcery , as knows , 's it starts stopping , there it no stopping .
 second lodger disappeared , is remembered on a Monday , and sight seemed drop The Belomut though , true , under different circumstances .
 In the morning him a came , as usual , car to take him to work , and work , but anyone did it bring or itself again not back come .
 grief and horror Madame Belomut neither defied description . But , alas , the other continued for long . That same night , on returning with Anfisa from dacha , which Anna Frantsevna for some had hurried hurried off , she not did find the wife citizen Belomut in the apartment .
 And that not : the doors the two rooms occupied by the Belomut couple turned sealed .
 Two days passed somehow .
 On third the day who suffered from all the while insomnia Anna Frantsevna again hurriedly , left for dacha ... Needless to say , she never came back !
 Left , Anfisa , having wept alone , went to sleep in one o'clock morning .
 What to her happened after that is not known , but lodgers in other apartments told in no.50 no.50 all night hearing knocking some sort of and of till morning in windows burning electric light .
 In the morning it turned out that also Anfisa no !
 about disappearances and about the accursed apartment long in house were repeated all sorts of legends , , instance , 'that this dry little and pious Anfisa supposedly had carried on her dried-up breast in suede bag , twenty-five twenty-five big diamonds belonging to Anna Frantsevna .
 That supposedly in the woodshed of that very dacha which hurriedly had gone Anna Frantsevna , there turned up themselves , some inestimable treasures in the form those same diamonds , plus gold coins tsarist minting ...
 And so on , in the same vein .
 Well , what n't we do know , n't vouch for .
 may it have been , the apartment stood empty and sealed only week . Then moved the late Berlioz with his wife and this same Styopa also with his wife .
 It perfectly perfectly natural that , as as they got happening into malignant the apartment , with them started devil knows what ! Namely , within the space of a month vanished both wives . But these two not without a trace .
 Of wife Berlioz it was told that that supposedly she been seen in Kharkov with some ballet-master , while 's wife Styopa allegedly turned up on Bozhedomka , where , the director Variety , using his innumerable acquaintances , contrived to get her a room , but on one condition that show face she never on Sadovaya Street ... And so , Styopa moaned .
 He He wanted tried to call housekeeper Grunya and ask aspirin , but still able was realize , that it was foolish no aspirin Grunya , of course , .
 , 'Misha 'Misha ... Misha ... ' , but , as you will understand , reply no received .
 The apartment was perfectly silent .
 Moving his toes , Styopa realized that that was lying in his socks , his trembling hand passed down hip , to determine whether his trousers he or not , but failed . Finally , seeing that he was and , to no one him him help , he decided to get up inhuman the inhuman effort it cost .
 Styopa unstuck his glued eyelids and saw himself reflected in a man with sticking out in all directions hair , with a covered black stubble physiognomy , with puffy stubble eyes collar , a bloated dirty , collar and necktie , in drawers and socks .
 So he saw himself in the , and next to the mirror he saw an unknown man , dressed in black and wearing black beret .
 Styopa sat goggled in bed and he could bloodshot his eyes at the unknown man .
 The silence was broken this unknown man , who said in a low , heavy voice and with a foreign accent the following words : 'Good 'Good my morning , sympathetic Stepan Bogdanovich ! '
 There was pause , after which , making on himself a most terrible strain , Styopa uttered :
 `` What I you do for ? `` and was amazed , not recognizing own voice .
 word 'what 'what ' He spoke treble , 'can 'can ' a bass , and 'do you ' his did all not come .
 The stranger amicably smiled , took out big gold diamond watch with a triangle on the lid , , rang eleven times and said :
 'Eleven 'Eleven .
 And for exactly hour , I 've been for you to wake up , And since you made an appointment me come for place at ten .
 Here am I ! '
 Styopa felt his the chair beside beside bed trousers , , whispered : 'Excuse 'Excuse me ... put on them and hoarsely whispered asked : 'Tell 'Tell me please , please your name ?
 He speaking He had difficulty . At each word , someone stuck a his needle infernal into brain , causing infernal pain .
 'What 'What ! You name my too forgotten ? ' Here the unknown man smiled .
 ` Forgive me ... croaked Styopa , feeling that his hangover presented with him new symptom : him it seemed , that the beside went away and that at moment he bed down go flying to the devil dam in world .
 ` My dear Stepan Bogdanovich , the said visitor , perspicacious with , ` a 'no aspirin you 'no will help .
 Follow the old wise rule - cure .
 The only thing that will bring back you to life is two glasses vodka pickled with something and pickled hot to vodka it . '
 Styopa was a shrewd man and , as he sick was , realized that since he he been found in this state , would confess everything .
 ` Frankly speaking ... began he , got moving tongue , 'yesterday a I ... 'Not a word more ! ` answered the visitor and drew aside with rolling . Styopa tray , his eyes , saw , that on a small table set tray , on which were sliced white bread dish , pressed in saucepan , pickled mushrooms caviar mushrooms on , something in decanter and , finally , vodka in roomy jeweller belonging .
 What struck Styopa was that the was with frosty cold . , however , This was understandable : it was sitting packed in a bowl packed with ice .
 the , was efficient , neat .
 The stranger did not allow Styopa 's amazement to develop to degree morbid but deftly poured him half a vodka .
 'And 'And you ? ' squeaked Styopa .
 'With 'With pleasure ! '
 His twitching hand twitching brought Styopa the glass to his lips , while the stranger one swallowed the contents of his glass gulp .
 Chewing a lump of caviar , Styopa squeezed out himself the words :
 'And 'And you something ... a ? '
 ` Much obliged , I never snack , ` replied the stranger and poured seconds .
 was opened The contain frankfurters in tomato sauce .
 And And then the accursed green haze before his eyes dissolved , began the words , and , above all , Styopa thing two remembered .
 Namely Namely , that it yesterday had in Skhodnya , at dacha of sketch-writer sketch-writer Khustov , to which this same Khustov had the taken Styopa in a taxi .
 There was memory even a having hired this taxi by the Metropol , was also some an actor not actor ... with gramophone in little suitcase . Yes , yes , yes , it was at dacha ! , remembered , The howled dogs howled from this gramophone .
 Only the lady Styopa wanted had kiss remained unexplained ... devil she knows was who she ... ... in radio , maybe maybe not ... The previous day thus thus gradually was , but Styopa now much more was interested day today 's and , in particularly , the appearance in bedroom a stranger , and with d'oeuvres vodka and vodka boot .
 It that nice would explain !
 'Well 'Well , by now , I hope you 've remembered my name ? '
 But Styopa only smiled bashfully smiled and spread arms . 'Really 'Really ! I get feeling that the vodka you followed with port wine ! Good heavens , it is simply done ! '
 ' I beg you to it keep between us , ' fawningly said Styopa .
 'Oh 'Oh , of course , of course !
 But for Khustov I , needless , n't vouch him .
 'So 'So you know Khustov ? '
 `` Yesterday , in office I saw this individuum briefly , but takes a fleeting glance at his face , to understand that that he bastard , squabbler , a and a toady . '
 ` Perfectly true ! ' ` thought Styopa , struck by such a true , precise and succinct definition of Khustov .
 Yes , the previous day was piecing itself the , but , even anxiety not take leave director the Variety . The thing was that in this previous day yawned a huge black hole . Say this stranger in beret , what you will , Styopa in his beret office yesterday not had seen .
 'Professor 'Professor 'the of black magic Woland , weightily said visitor , seeing Styopa 's 's difficulty , and recounted everything in order .
 Yesterday Yesterday afternoon he arrived from abroad in Moscow , immediately went to Styopa and offered his show to Variety .
 Styopa telephoned a the Moscow Regional Entertainment Commission and question the approved ( Styopa turned blinked and blinked pale mouth ) , signed with Professor Woland contract for seven performances ( Styopa opened his ) and arranged that Woland should come to work out the details at ten o'clock o'clock ...
 so Woland And came .
 Having come , he was met housekeeper Grunya , who explained that that herself she just come maid , that she , Berlioz home was , and that if the visitor wished to see Stepan Bogdanovich , he go wake him to his bedroom himself . Stepan Bogdanovich such a was sleeper that him she not undertake . Seeing in what condition Stepan Bogdanovich , artiste sent Grunya to the nearest grocery for vodka and d'oeuvres , to store the for ice and ... ` Allow me to me reimburse you , ` squealed mortified Styopa and began hunting for reimburse wallet .
 'Oh 'Oh , what nonsense ! exclaimed performer and hear no more .
 And so , vodka and the d'oeuvres got explained , but all same Styopa was a pity see : he decidedly not remembered nothing about the contract and , on his , not had seen yesterday this Woland .
 Yes , Khustov had , but Woland not been .
 'May 'May I have a the contract ? quietly asked Styopa .
 'Please 'Please do please , please do ... Styopa looked at the paper and froze .
 Everything was in place : first of all , 's Styopa own dashing signature ... aslant a note the in the hand of the findirector Rimsky authorizing authorizing the payment the artiste Woland as advance on due him for seven performances thirty-five thirty-five thousand ten thousand .
 What more , there signature receipt Woland 's his the ten thousand of !
 ` What is this ? ! ' ` the thought wretched Styopa , head his spinning .
 starting ominous gaps of memory ? ?
 Well , saying , once contract had been produced , any further expressions surprise would be simply indecent .
 Styopa asked his visitor leave to a moment absent himself and , as he was in stocking feet , , ran to front hall for the telephone . On way he called out in the direction the kitchen : 'Grunya 'Grunya !
 But no one responded .
 He he glanced at door hall to 's study Berlioz , which was next to front , and here , as they say , flabbergasted .
 On the door-handle he made out enormous an wax wax seal on a string .
 'Hel-lo 'Just 'Hel-lo we ! ' barked someone in 's head in Styopa . 'Just needed ! ' And here Styopa 's thoughts began running on twin of tracks , but , , as always happens in times catastrophe , , in the direction and generally devil knows where . the Styopa head is difficult even convey .
 Here this devilry with black beret , chilled vodka and incredible contract , ... And along all that , you please , a seal on the door !
 That is anyone you like tell , that Berlioz good been - no will believe it , by Jove , no will believe it !
 Yet seal , there 's the !
 Yes , ... And here began stirring in brain 's Styopa some thoughts most disagreeable thoughts about article the which , as luck have it , had recently he inflicted on Mikhail Alexandrovich for publication in journal .
 article , between us was idiotic ! And worthless . And money so worthless little ...
 Immediately Immediately after the recollection the article there came flying a recollection of some dubious conversation taken place recalled , twenty-fourth the twenty-fourth of April evening there , in in the dining , while Styopa was having dinner with Mikhail Alexandrovich Alexandrovich .
 That is , of course , in the full sense of word conversation the this dubious been called could not ( not ventured Styopa upon such a conversation ) , but it was conversation on some unnecessary subject .
 quite dear free been , dear citizens , He to not begin it .
 Before seal , conversation this would have been considered a perfect trifle , but now , after seal ... 'Ah 'Ah , Berlioz , Berlioz ! ' boiled Styopa in 's head Styopa .
 simply This for head ! '
 But grieve long not would , and Styopa dialled number the office of findirector , Rimsky .
 's position Styopa was ticklish : first , the foreigner might get offended that Styopa was checking him after had been the shown contract , and also with the findirector talk was exceedingly difficult . Indeed Indeed , not just ask him that : ` Tell me , sign did I yesterday with professor black magic contract for thirty-five thirty-five thousand roubles ? '
 It good asking that no was !
 'Yes 'Yes ! ' came from the receiver 's sharp , unpleasant voice Rimsky .
 'Hello 'Hello , Grigory Grigory Danilovich , quietly began speaking Styopa Likhodeev , 'it 'it 's Likhodeev .
 There a matter ... hm ... hm ... I 's sitting this ... er ... artiste Woland ... So ... I wanted to ask , how about this evening ? ...
 'Ah 'Ah , the black magician ? ' responded in receiver Rimsky . The posters shortly will . '
 'Uh-huh 'Uh-huh in a weak voice said Styopa , 'bye 'bye , 'well ... ...
 'And 'And you soon coming in ? ' asked Rimsky .
 'In 'In half an hour , replied Styopa and , hanging up the receiver , pressed his hot head in hands .
 Ah , , what a nasty nasty thing happen !
 What was wrong with memory , citizens ? Eh ? However go lingering in front hall was awkward , and Styopa straight away formed plan : by all means to conceal his incredible forgetfulness , and now first off contrive to get the foreigner , what he , , in fact , , intended evening show in Styopa .
 Here Styopa turned away from the telephone and in the , stood in front had not lazy Grunya , distinctly saw wiped a pince-nez certain strange specimen long , as pole , and in a pince-nez ( ah , if had there been Ivan Nikolaevich ! He recognized have this specimen once ! ) . The was reflected and then disappeared .
 Styopa rocked in alarm looked further was a , and second time rocked , for in the a passed stalwart stalwart black cat and also disappeared .
 's Styopa 's skipped heart , he staggered . 'Am 'What is this all ? 'What he . losing 'Am I my mind ?
 Where coming are these reflections ? ! ' He He peeked into front hall and timorously cried : 'Grunya 'Grunya !
 What 's this cat here hanging ? !
 Where did he ?
 And the other one ? ! '
 'Do 'Do n't worry , Stepan Bogdanovich , responded voice , not Grunya but the from the bedroom . The cat is mine .
 n't be nervous .
 And Grunya is , I sent off her to Voronezh Voronezh vacation . . She complained you not diddled her a vacation . '
 words These were so unexpected and preposterous that that Styopa decided he right .
 Utterly Utterly bewildered he trotted back to the bedroom and froze on threshold . hair beads His his stood , and on brow broke small of sweat sweat .
 The visitor was alone in the bedroom longer no , but company : in second armchair sat the same type he imagined in . Now he was clearly visible : the moustache , pince-nez pince-nez gleaming , the other there not .
 But were in the bedroom things a worse : on jeweller 's 's the ottoman in a casual pose sprawled third , namely uncanny size black a cat with a glass vodka in one paw and a fork , on which he had managed to spear a pickled mushroom , in the other .
 The light , faint in the bedroom , now began grow dark in 's eyes Styopa .
 This is how apparently one loses 's loses mind ... ' thought he and caught hold of the doorpost .
 ` I see you somewhat surprised , dearest Stepan Bogdanovich ? inquired Woland the teeth-chattering teeth-chattering Styopa . ` And yet be surprised nothing .
 This is my retinue . '
 Here the cat tossed off the vodka , and Styopa 's hand began slide the doorpost down .
 'And 'And retinue this requires room continued Woland , 'so 'so one many of us the 's in apartment .
 And us it seems that that this one is you . '
 'Generally Theirself , theirself ! ' checkered 's voice sang long checkered one a goat 's , in the plural referring to Styopa . theirself has lately lately terrible swinishness swinishness .
 Drinking , their have liaisons with liaisons women , using position , devil n't thing , and do anything n't , because they anything n't know of what they supposed do .
 Pulling Pulling the eyes . '
 ` Availing car hisself Availing a government ! ` snitched the cat , chewing mushroom .
 And here occurred the fourth and last appearance in the apartment , as Styopa , having slid clawed at floor , slid enfeebled hand clawed the doorpost with .
 Straight from the stepped a short but extraordinarily broad-shouldered , a bowler fang on head mouth and with sticking out of , still without that unprecedentedly loathsome physiognomy .
 And besides with flaming besides .
 `` I , entered into the conversation this new , do n't understand how he got a director , the 's redhead twang growing stronger and stronger , 'he as a director as I bishop . `` You do n't 's look like a bishop , Azazello , 'the observed cat , heaping his frankfurters with plate frankfurters .
 I That 's mean , twanged redhead and , turning to Woland , he added deferentially : 'Allow 'Allow me , Messire , him chuck the devil out of Moscow ?
 'Scat 'Scat ! ' suddenly barked , bristling his fur .
 And then the bedroom started spinning around Styopa , , he hit his against the doorpost head and , losing consciousness , thought : ' I 'm dying ... '
 But he not die .
 Opening slightly his eyes , he saw himself sitting on something made of stone . Around him something was noise .
 When he opened properly , what eyes , he realized that the rocking sea and that just more , the waves rocking at his feet , , that , , he sitting at the very end jetty that behind him him a brilliant sky and over brilliant a city on mountains .
 Not knowing how behave in such a case , Styopa got up on his trembling legs and walked along jetty the towards shore .
 the jetty was standing Some man , smoking and spitting into the sea . at Styopa He looked with wild eyes and stopped spitting .
 Then Styopa pulled knelt the following stunt : he down before the unknown smoker and said : ' I implore you , tell me what this city ? '
 `` Really ! `` said heartless the smoker .
 ' I not drunk , hoarsely replied Styopa , 'm to me 'something 's happened I ill ... ...
 Where am I ?
 What is this city ? '
 `` Well , Yalta ... Styopa quietly gasped and sank down on his side , head his striking the stone the jetty .
 At the time , that Consciousness consciousness left Styopa in Yalta , that is around half past eleven morning , it . returned to Ivan Nikolaevich Homeless who , woke up after a long and deep sleep . some time He pondering that how it was he wound in an unfamiliar unfamiliar room with white walls blinds , with astonishing an night table blinds of some light metal and with white , behind which could sense the sun .
 Ivan shook his head , ascertained that that it did not ache , and ascertained remembered that that he was in clinic .
 This thought drew the after it remembrance of 's death Berlioz , but today it not did provoke in Ivan a strong shock .
 Having good sleep , Ivan Nikolaevich became calmer and think clearly began .
 After lying some time motionless in , soft comfortable and comfortable spring bed , Ivan noticed a button beside beside him .
 From a habit touching things needlessly , Ivan pressed it .
 He expected button ringing or appearance followed by the pressing the button , but happened entirely something different .
 A foot of Ivan 's bed lit up at frosted glass cylinder with on it the word word 'Drink 'Drink ' .
 After pausing for a while , the cylinder began rotate until , until out popped the word ` Nurse ' . It goes saying that clever the cylinder amazed Ivan .
 The word 'Nurse 'Nurse ' was replaced by the words 'Call 'Call the Doctor ' .
 'Hm ... said Ivan , not knowing how to proceed with this cylinder further lucky . But here happened . Ivan pressed the button second time at the word 'Attendant 'Attendant ' .
 The cylinder quietly rang in response , stopped went , the , and into the room came a plump plump sympathetic woman in a white clean coat and said to Ivan :
 'Good 'Good morning ! '
 Ivan not did reply , considering a such greeting under the circumstances inappropriate .
 Indeed Indeed , lock up a healthy man in clinic , and they pretend that it how that be !
 The woman meanwhile meanwhile meanwhile , without losing her good-natured expression blinds , with one push of a button , brought flooded blinds up right , and the room through wide-meshed and a light grille which reached to the floor flooded sun .
 Beyond the grille a came balcony , beyond that bank a meandering river , and on other its bank a cheerful cheerful pine wood .
 'Time 'Time our for bath , the invited woman , and under hands her parted the inner revealing wall , behind it revealing a bathroom bathroom and splendidly equipped toilet .
 Ivan , though he resolved to the woman not to talk , not could himself and , on seeing the water gush gleaming into tub a wide in stream from gleaming faucet , said ironically : 'Looky 'Looky there !
 like the the Metropol ! '
 'Oh 'Oh no , ` proudly answered woman , ` much better . There such equipment is even anywhere abroad .
 Scientists and doctors especially come to study our clinic .
 We We every day foreign tourists have . '
 At the words 'foreign 'foreign tourists ' Ivan at once , remembered yesterday 's consultant . Ivan darkened , looked and said :
 ` Foreign tourists ... How you all foreign tourists adore !
 But among them , incidentally incidentally , all come across sorts .
 I , for instance , yesterday met one - quite something ! '
 And almost he started telling about Pontius Pilate , but restrained himself , realizing that that the woman these stories use , that any case help she him not could .
 The washed Ivan Nikolaevich straight away was issued decidedly everything needs a man after bath : an ironed shirt , drawers , socks .
 And that : opening cupboard the a , woman pointed inside the and asked :
 'What 'What would you like put on dressing gown or pyjamas ? '
 Attached to new dwelling by force , Ivan almost hands clasped at casualness woman and silently pointed finger flannel at pyjamas the crimson flannel pyjamas .
 After this Ivan , Nikolaevich down empty and noiseless corridor and brought to of huge dimensions room .
 Ivan , having decided to take attitude towards everything to found in this wondrously wondrously equipped building , ironic , at once ironic mentally christened room kitchen 'industrial 'industrial ' .
 And good with reason .
 Here stood cabinets and glass cases with gleaming nickel-plated instruments . There were chairs extraordinarily complex construction , pot-bellied pot-bellied lamps with shiny shades burners , some phials burners Bunsen burners cords , electric cords and quite anyone unknown appliances .
 In the room Ivan was by three persons - two women and a man - all in white .
 First , Ivan they led to a corner , to a table , with the obvious purpose something or other of him getting .
 Ivan began ponder situation .
 before him stood Three ways .
 The extremely was tempting first : hurl himself at these lamps and sophisticated things wreck , to all them the own make wreck and thereby thereby express his protest for being detained nothing .
 But today 's Ivan already significantly differed from Ivan of yesterday , and first way appeared him dubious : for knew , them the get rooted in thought that that he was a violent madman .
 Therefore first way Ivan rejected the .
 was a second : immediately to begin his account of the consultant and Pontius Pilate .
 However yesterday 's experience showed , that this story not believed or was was somehow perversely .
 Therefore Ivan renounced this way renounced , deciding choose the third - withdrawal into proud silence .
 He it realizing not succeed and willy-nilly charily , had answer , though and charily glumly and glumly , a whole series of questions .
 Thus Ivan they got decidedly everything about his past life life , down to , when and how he fallen ill scarlet fever fifteen years ago .
 having about Ivan A whole page writing , turned it , and woman in white was went on to questions about 's relatives Ivan .
 started Some sort of humdrum : who died when , drank had venereal disease , and more the same .
 In conclusion he was to tell about yesterday 's events at Patriarch 's the Ponds , but much not pester were , the information about Pontius Pilate not surprised .
 Here woman yielded Ivan man , who went work on him differently and longer no asked questions .
 He took the temperature Ivan 's body , counted pulse , looked Ivan 's in 's eyes , directing into them some sort of lamp .
 Then to assistance man came the second woman , and Ivan pricked , but not painfully in back , drew his the with hammer some signs of on of chest knees , tapped hammer with knees , legs Ivan jump , pricked 's finger and took him his blood , pricked inside bent elbow , put on arms some rubber bracelets ...
 Ivan just bitterly smiled to himself and reflected on how how all it stupidly and strangely had happened .
 Just think !
 He had warn them all of the danger threatening from the unknown consultant , wanted intended him catch , and he achieved all was to wind in some sorts mysterious hogwash up room , telling all of hogwash about Uncle Fyodor , who done drinking in Vologda hard .
 Insufferably stupid !
 Finally Ivan was released . He he was was escorted back to his room , where given a of coffee , two eggs and white bread with butter .
 Having eaten and drunk all that offered him , Ivan decided to wait for whoever was chief of this institution and from this chief to obtain both attention for himself , and justice .
 And he did come , and very soon after 's 's breakfast .
 Unexpectedly , opened door the of room Ivan , and in came a lot people in white coats .
 At head their walked a , carefully actor shaven man of forty-five forty-five , with pleasant but quite piercing eyes manners and courteous manners .
 The whole retinue showed him tokens of attention and respect , and entrance his came out therefore very solemn .
 'Like 'Like Pontius Pilate ! ' thought Ivan .
 Yes , this was unquestionably the chief .
 He sat down a stool , while everyone else remained standing .
 'Doctor 'Doctor Stravinsky , ' the introduced himself seated Ivan and gave a look to him friendly .
 'Here 'Here , Alexander Nikolaevich , ' said someone in a low trim beard and handed the 's writing Ivan chart .
 They a case sewn ! '
 And chief practised eye ran through chart , muttered muttered 'Mm-hm 'Mm-hm 'Mm-hm , mm-hm ... ' and exchanged him with around a few phrases in a little-known language .
 'And 'And Latin , like Pilate he speaks ' sadly thought Ivan .
 Here one word made him jump ; the it was word 'schizophrenia 'schizophrenia ' , already yesterday uttered the cursed foreigner at Patriarch 's Ponds , and now today repeated by Professor Stravinsky .
 'And 'And he that knew ! ' Ivan anxiously thought Ivan .
 chief apparently made it a rule agree rejoice with everything and over said by him him those around , and express the this words 'Very 'Very nice , very nice ... '
 'Very 'Very nice ! ' said Stravinsky , handing back the chart , and he addressed to Ivan : 'You 'You a poet ? '
 ` A poet , ` glumly replied Ivan and suddenly for first time felt some inexplicable loathing for poetry , , and coming him own his verses , seemed for some reason distasteful .
 Wrinkling face , he in in turn turn , asked his Stravinsky :
 'You a professor ? '
 To this Stravinsky obliging courtesy inclined head .
 'And 'And you the here chief ? ' continued Ivan .
 Stravinsky nodded to this nodded .
 ' I with you Nikolaevich must speak , ' meaningly said Ivan Nikolaevich .
 I for That here , returned Stravinsky .
 'The 'The is , ` began Ivan , feeling , that come been his hour , ` I a madman and nobody wants me listen to ! ... '
 'Oh 'Oh no , we shall hear you out great seriously madman , soothingly and soothingly said Stravinsky , 'and 'and you by no means allow . '
 'Listen 'Listen , then : yesterday yesterday evening I at Patriarch 's the Ponds met in a mysterious person , , a foreigner not foreigner , who beforehand knew about death Berlioz and person has seen Pontius Pilate . '
 The retinue silently and without stirring listened to the poet .
 'Pilate 'Pilate ?
 Pilate The who lived in Jesus Christ ? ' narrowing at Ivan , asked his Stravinsky .
 `` The same . '
 'Aha 'Aha , said Stravinsky , 'and 'and this Berlioz died under a tram-car ? '
 'Precisely 'Precisely 'Precisely , he yesterday in my presence was killed by tram-car at Ponds , and this same mysterious citizen ...
 The acquaintance of Pontius Pilate ? ' asked Stravinsky , apparently , distinguished by great mental alacrity .
 'Precisely 'Precisely him , confirmed Ivan , studying Stravinsky . 'Well so 'Well he said beforehand , that Annushka spilled the sunflower sunflower oil ...
 And he slipped on that place !
 How do you that like ? ' significantly inquired Ivan , hoping to produce great effect his words .
 But the effect not did ensue , and Stravinsky quite simply asked the following question :
 'And 'And who is this Annushka ? '
 This question little upset a Ivan ; face his twitched .
 ` Annushka here absolutely no is . said he nervously `` Devil knows who she is .
 Just some fool fool from Sadovaya .
 What 's important is , that he beforehand , you , beforehand knew see about sunflower the oil !
 you me understand ? '
 ` Perfectly , seriously replied Stravinsky and , touching knee poet , added : 'Do 'Do n't excited , continue .
 To continue , ' said Ivan , trying to fall in with tone Stravinsky and knowing already from bitter experience , that only calm would help him , 'so 'so then , this horrible type , and he lying , that he a consultant ) has 's some extraordinary power ...
 For instance , after him you chase and catch him impossible to ...
 And with him also pair ones , too good , but in their own way : 's some long one in broken glasses and , besides him , incredible size cat who himself rides the tram .
 And besides , , ` no interrupted by Ivan went talking ever with increasing ardour and conviction , ` he personally was on balcony 's Pontius Pilate , it 's no of doubt .
 So this what , eh ?
 He must be immediately arrested , otherwise he do untold harm . '
 ` So you him get arrested ? correctly I you understood ? ' asked Stravinsky .
 'He 'He 's intelligent , thought Ivan . `` got to admit , even among intellectuals some come across of rare intelligence , it denying 's no , ' `` and he replied :
 ` Quite correctly !
 And how not trying , I consider yourself yourself !
 And meanwhile meanwhile I forcibly detained forcibly detained here , poke into my eyes lamps , they baths , about my Uncle Fedya some question ! ... And he ago this world departed !
 I demand to be immediately released ! '
 'Well 'Well there , , nice , very nice ! responded Stravinsky . 'Now 'Now everything 's clear .
 Really , what the sense of keeping a in clinic man healthy ?
 Very well , sir , I you out now here right , if you me check tell you 're normal .
 Not prove , but merely tell .
 So then , you normal ? '
 Here fell complete silence , and the fat woman who the morning had taken of Ivan in awe looked at professor . Ivan once again thought : 'Positively 'Positively intelligent '
 The offer professor him very much pleased , yet before before replying , he very , very thought , wrinkling his forehead , and at last last said firmly :
 ' I am normal . '
 ` 'Well nice , exclaimed Stravinsky , ` and if so , let 's reason logically .
 Let 's take your yesterday day . Here he and him was immediately handed Ivan 's chart .
 'In 'In search of an unknown man who recommended an acquaintance as acquaintance Pontius Pilate , you yesterday performed the following actions . ' Here Stravinsky began holding up his long a fingers , glancing now at chart , now at Ivan . hung on chest icon . Did you ? '
 ' did , ' sullenly agreed Ivan .
 'You 'You fell off fence and hurt face .
 Right ?
 Showed up in a restaurant carrying a burning candle in hand underwear , , in underwear and in the restaurant beat somebody .
 were brought You here up tied .
 Having come here , you called them the police and asked to send out machine-guns .
 Then you attempted to throw yourself out the window .
 Right ?
 The question is : can , acting in such fashion , one anyone catch or arrest ?
 And if you man normal , , you yourself will answer : by no means .
 You wish to leave here ?
 Very well sir . But allow me to ask , where you going go ?
 'To course , 'To the police replied Ivan longer no so firmly and somewhat loss under the gaze professor .
 'Straight 'Straight from from here ? '
 'Mm-hm 'Mm-hm ...
 'Without stopping at stopping place 'Without your ? ' quickly asked Stravinsky .
 ' I anywhere stop anywhere !
 While I at places 'm stopping , he slip away ! '
 'So 'So .
 And what will you tell start the police to with ? '
 'About 'About Pontius Pilate , ' replied Ivan Nikolaevich , and his eyes his clouded with a gloomy mist .
 'Well 'Well , very nice ! ' exclaimed the won-over Stravinsky and , turning to the the with little beard , ordered : 'Fyodor 'Fyodor Vassilyevich Vassilyevich , please check please citizen Homeless for town . But his anyone room n't put or the linen change .
 In two hours citizen Homeless back will here .
 So then , ' turned he to the poet , success I you wish n't , because in success that one iota n't believe .
 See soon you ! ' He stood , and retinue his stirred .
 'On 'On what grounds I back be here ? ' anxiously asked Ivan .
 Stravinsky as if waiting for this this question , was immediately sat down and began speak :
 ` On the grounds that as as you show up in the drawers at police station and tell you them seen a man who personally knew Pontius Pilate , ` instantly you be brought here , and you again 'll find yourself in this same very room . '
 'What 'What it drawers ? ' bewilderment gazing around bewilderment , asked Ivan .
 'It 'It mainly Pontius Pilate . But the drawers too .
 Because the clinic we from you take and give back you your underwear clothes .
 And delivered you were here in drawers .
 And yet at your place you going to by no were , though I dropped hint you a stop .
 Then Then comes Pilate ... and it that 's .
 Here something strange happened with Ivan Nikolaevich . His will seemed crack , and he felt in weak , himself of advice .
 'What 'What I do then ? asked he this time time , timidly .
 `` Well very how , nice ! replied Stravinsky . `` A most reasonable question .
 Now I going to tell you what what actually to you happened .
 Yesterday someone you you badly frightened and upset a story about Pontius Pilate and other things . And so you , nervous and high-strung man , started going around the city , telling about Pontius Pilate .
 It 's quite natural that you 're taken for madman .
 Your lies salvation peace now just in one complete .
 And you absolutely must remain here . '
 'But 'But he has be caught ! ' now imploringly exclaimed Ivan .
 'Very 'Very good , , but why go running ?
 Explain on paper all your suspicions and accusations against this man .
 Nothing simpler simpler than to send your declaration to quarters , and if , as you think , we are dealing dealing with a criminal , it be clarified very quickly .
 But only one on condition : n't do strain your head , and try to less think about Pontius Pilate .
 kinds things People say !
 One must believe everything . '
 'Understood 'Understood ! ` resolutely declared Ivan . ` ask to be given I pen paper and paper .
 'Give 'Give him paper pencil and a short pencil , ' ordered Stravinsky the fat woman , and to Ivan said he : 'But 'But today advise you n't to write . '
 'No 'No , no , today , today ! cried cried alarm Ivan .
 'Well 'Well , right . Only n't do strain your head .
 n't it come today , it tomorrow . '
 'He 'He 'll escape . '
 'Oh 'Oh no , confidently objected Stravinsky , 'he 'he n't anywhere n't escape guarantee , I guarantee that .
 And remember that that here with us you all possible be helped , and without it us nothing will .
 you me hear ? ' suddenly meaningly asked Stravinsky and took by both hands Ivan Nikolaevich .
 Holding his them in own , he long on his eyes Ivan 's , repeated : 'You 'You 'll here ... you hear me ? ... You 'll be helped here ... ... you get relief here 's quiet , all peaceful you 'll helped here ...
 Ivan Nikolaevich unexpectedly yawned , and the expression face his softened .
 'Yes 'Yes , yes , quietly said he .
 'Well very 'Well , nice ! in his usual way concluded the conversation Stravinsky and stood ! He shook hand Ivan 's and , on his way , up turned to the the with little beard and said : 'Yes 'Yes , and oxygen ... and baths .
 A few moments later before Ivan no was no Stravinsky or retinue .
 Beyond the window grille , in noonday sun , the stood joyful and springtime pine wood on other bank the , and closer by sparkled river .
 Nikanor Ivanovich Bosoy , chairman the tenants association of no.302-bis no.302-bis on Sadovaya Street in Moscow , where used reside the late Berlioz , had been having most terrible troubles , starting from that night from Wednesday .
 At midnight , as we already know , came to house a commission of which formed Zheldybin , summoned Nikanor Ivanovich , told him about death Berlioz and together with him went to apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 . There was carried the sealing manuscripts belongings and of the deceased .
 Neither Grunya , the daytime housekeeper , nor light-minded Stepan Bogdanovich at the time was housekeeper there .
 The commission announced to Nikanor Ivanovich that that 's manuscripts belongings the deceased it would take for sorting , that living space the , that , three rooms the ( former jeweller study , living room dining and dining room ) , reverted to the disposal tenants association , and the belongings were be kept in aforementioned living space until the announced heirs .
 The news of death Berlioz spread the through whole house with a sort of supernatural speed , and as seven o'clock o'clock morning , Bosoy began to receive telephone calls and and then personal with visits declarations containing 's claims to living space the deceased .
 , In the period two hours Nikanor Ivanovich received such declarations thirty-two thirty-two declarations .
 They contained pleas , threats denunciations , libels , denunciations , promises to do renovations at their own expense , references to unbearable overcrowding and impossibility living in same the apartment with bandits .
 Among Among others there were a staggering in its artistic power description the theft meat , tucked directly into pocket dumplings , , from apartment jacket no 51 , two vows to end life by suicide and one confession of secret pregnancy .
 Nikanor Ivanovich was called out to front his hall apartment , plucked by sleeve whispered , winked promised not be left the loser .
 torture This went on until noon noon , when Nikanor Ivanovich simply fled his apartment for the office by the gate , but when saw he , there him them lying , he place .
 Having shaken off those who who followed heels his across the asphalt-paved courtyard , Nikanor Ivanovich disappeared into sixth and went up to the fifth entrance floor , where was this vile apartment located no.50 no.50 .
 After catching the landing , corpulent Nikanor Ivanovich the rang , but him no one no opened for .
 He rang again , and again , and started grumbling and quietly swearing . Even then no one opened .
 patience Nikanor Ivanovich exhausted , His took from pocket bunch duplicate a of keys belonging the house management , sovereign hand opened the door and went in .
 'Hey 'Hey , housekeeper ! '
 'Grunya your is ! 'Grunya , ...
 Are you here ? '
 No one responded .
 Then Nikanor Ivanovich took folding briefcase door briefcase from seal , , removed from the folding ruler and stepped in study .
 Stepped in Stepped yes , but halted in amazement in the doorway and even gave start .
 At desk the deceased 's sat an skinny , , long citizen in a checkered checkered jacket , , a little jockey cap and a pince-nez ... pince-nez well , short , that one .
 'And 'And who you be , citizen ? ' fearfully asked Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'Hah 'Hah ! ! Nikanor Ivanovich yelled rattling a unexpected citizen and , jumping up , greeted the chairman a and sudden handshake . greeting This by no gladdened Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'Excuse me 'Excuse , said he suspiciously , 'but who be ?
 you person an official ? '
 'Eh 'Eh , Nikanor Ivanovich ! ' exclaimed soulfully the exclaimed unknown man .
 `` What are official persons and unofficial ?
 all It depends on the point view of on subject .
 It 's 's fluctuating relative and all Nikanor , Ivanovich .
 and it happens the other , unofficial person ! And also how it does !
 This argument This in in no way satisfied chairman the house management .
 Being by nature generally a suspicious person , he concluded that that the forth front him precisely unofficial person , and perhaps even an idle .
 `` Yes you who might be ? What 's your name ? `` increasing severity inquired inquired chairman and even began to advance upon the unknown man .
 ` My name My , ` a bit not put out by severity the the responded citizen , 'well , 's say 's Koroviev .
 But n't you like would snack , Nikanor Ivanovich ?
 No formalities , eh ? '
 ` me Excuse , ` now indignantly began Nikanor Ivanovich , ` what it snacks ! '
 ( We must confess , it is unpleasant , that Nikanor Ivanovich was of a nature somewhat rude ) .
 'Sitting in half the deceased 'Sitting not is permitted !
 you What here doing ?
 ` Have a seat , Nikanor Ivanovich , ` bit not yelling loss , went citizen and began yelling , fussing offering the chairman a seat .
 Utterly infuriated infuriated , Nikanor Ivanovich rejected the seat and screamed : 'But 'But who you are ? '
 ' I , you please , serve interpreter for a foreign individual who has taken residence in this apartment , ' himself calling himself Koroviev and clicked heels scuffed unpolished shoes .
 Nikanor Ivanovich opened his .
 The presence some foreigner , to with interpreter , in this apartment came as to him a complete surprise , and he demanded explanations .
 The interpreter willingly explained .
 A foreign artiste , Mr Woland had been kindly invited by director , Stepan Bogdanovich Likhodeev , spend time of his performances , a week so , in his in apartment , about which he had yesterday written Nikanor to Ivanovich , requesting he register the foreigner temporary , himself Likhodeev took a trip to Yalta .
 'He anything 'He me never wrote the in amazement said chairman .
 ` Just your look through briefcase , Nikanor Koroviev Ivanovich , ` sweetly suggested Koroviev .
 Nikanor Ivanovich , shrugging shoulders , opened the briefcase and found in it letter Likhodeev 's .
 ` How could I about it forgotten ? ` dully looking at the opened envelope , muttered Nikanor Ivanovich .
 ` All sorts happen , all sorts sorts , Nikanor Ivanovich ! ` rattled Koroviev 'Absent-mindedness , absent-mindedness , fatigue and high blood pressure , dear my friend Nikanor Ivanovich !
 I 'm terribly absent-minded absent-minded myself !
 Someday , 'll over a , I 'll tell you a few facts from my biography - you laughing ! '
 'And when is Likhodeev going to Yalta ? '
 ` He already 's gone , gone ! the interpreter interpreter . ` He , know , wheeling along !
 already He devil 's knows where ! ' And here the interpreter waved arms his like the a wings windmill .
 Nikanor Ivanovich declared that that he must person see the foreigner interpreter , but a that got from interpreter refusal : quite impossible .
 's busy . He Training the cat .
 'The 'The cat , if you like I can show you , ' offered Koroviev .
 This , in his turn , refused Nikanor Woland Ivanovich , and interpreter straight away made the chairman tenants unexpected accustomed but quite an interesting proposal ?
 'It Koroviev must 's agree the - him hoarsely , Nikanor - deceased .
 'He does 'He he now , does the apartment ? '
 Nikanor Ivanovich , somewhat perplexed objected that , foreigners ought to live at the Metropol , and at all not in private apartments ...
 ` I telling you , capricious he as devil 's knows what ! ` whispered Koroviev . just n't does want to !
 n't does like He hotels !
 I them here of you had to , these foreign tourists ! complained confidentially complained confidentially Koroviev , jabbing jabbing his finger at his sinewy neck . 'Believe me , the soul they wring !
 They come ... either spy torment like lowest bitch son , or else with caprices their caprices torment - this n't right and that n't right ! ...
 And your for association , Nikanor Ivanovich , sheer gain and an obvious profit .
 on money He n't stint . ' Koroviev looked and then whispered into the : ' A millionaire ! '
 The 's interpreter made clear practical sense , offer was very a solid , yet something good-for-nothing remarkably unsolid was in manner of interpreter speaking , and in his his clothes , and in that loathsome , good-for-nothing pince-nez pince-nez .
 As a result something vague weighed weighed soul the chairman , but nevertheless he decided accept the offer .
 The thing was that the tenants association had , alas , sizeable quite deficit .
 by fall had to be bought Fuel for heating the system , but who shell it no one knew .
 But with the foreign tourist 's money , , possible to wriggle it .
 However the practical and prudent Nikanor Ivanovich said , he first would have to settle the question with the foreign tourist bureau .
 ` I understand got cried You Koroviev . ` it ! Absolutely !
 Here 's the telephone , Nikanor Ivanovich , at once it !
 And the money n't be shy , in whisper added he , drawing the chairman to front the telephone hall , 'if pay , who he !
 should You see the he villa in Nice !
 come Next summer , when you go abroad , especially you gasp it ! '
 The business with the foreign bureau was arranged over the phone with an extraordinary amazing to chairman , speed .
 It turned out that already they knew about intention of Mr Woland 's staying in 's private apartment Likhodeev 's and to it no had objections .
 ` That 's 's wonderful ! ` yelled Koroviev .
 Somewhat stunned his chatter , the chairman announced that tenants association agreed rent a week apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 to artiste the Woland for ...
 Nikanor Ivanovich faltered little then said : 'For 'For five hundred roubles a day .
 Here Koroviev utterly amazed chairman . Koroviev Winking in direction the bedroom , from which the heard soft leaps a heavy cat , he rasped :
 'So the week it comes 'So to three five hundred ? '
 Nikanor Ivanovich thought add was he To which : 'Some 'Some appetite you , Nikanor Ivanovich ! ' but Koroviev said something quite different :
 'What 'What that of money ?
 Ask five , he pay it . '
 Grinning perplexedly Grinning perplexedly , Nikanor Koroviev Ivanovich , himself without noticing , how found at 's writing desk , where Koroviev with great speed and dexterity drew in two copies contract . Then Then he flew with them to the bedroom and came back , both copies bearing now sweeping the signature foreigner .
 The signed contract the chairman . Here Koroviev asked a receipt for five ... ... Write it out , write it out , Koroviev Nikanor Ivanovich ! ... ... thousand roubles And with words somehow unsuited unsuited to to serious business - 'Bin , zwei , drei ! laid out the chairman five of new stacks banknotes stacks banknotes .
 took place The , interspersed quips and quiddities Koroviev , such as 'Cash 'Cash loves counting ' , 'Your 'Your own eye wo ' and others sort same .
 After counting money , the chairman received from Koroviev the passport foreigner 's for 's temporary registration , put it , the contract and money into briefcase , and , somehow unable himself , sheepishly asked for Koroviev a free pass ...
 'Do 'Do mention it ! ' bellowed Koroviev . 'How 'How you tickets , Koroviev Nikanor Ivanovich - twelve fifteen , ? '
 flabbergasted chairman The explained that that he needed was passes , himself and Pelageya Antonovna , his wife .
 Koroviev once snatched out notebook and dashed dashed Nikanor Ivanovich a pass for two persons the in front row .
 And this the interpreter interpreter with left hand deftly slipped Nikanor to Ivanovich , while with right slipped he put into 's other hand chairman a thick crackling wad .
 Casting an it eye , Nikanor Ivanovich blushed deeply blushed and began it push away . 'It 'It n't is done ... murmured .
 ' I n't hear whispered in ear it Koroviev . 'With us not 's done , but with foreigners it is .
 You him offend , Nikanor Ivanovich , and that 's embarrassing .
 You worked hard ...
 ` It severely 's punishable , ` , very softly whispered chairman and glanced his .
 'But 'But where are the witnesses ? ' whispered into other ear Koroviev . ' I you whispered ask you , where are they ?
 You think ?
 Here a occurred , as the afterwards chairman , miracle : the itself crept his into wad briefcase .
 And then chairman , somehow limp and even broken , found himself on the stairs . A whirlwind thoughts raged in his in head . There was the villa in Nice , and the cat , and the thought that there witnesses in fact no were , and that Pelageya Antonovna delighted the pass .
 They were incoherent thoughts , but generally pleasant .
 But all the same some little needle in very the bottom of soul kept pricking chairman . This was the needle anxiety . Besides Besides , right then on the stairs chairman , as stroke , was seized the thought : 'But 'But how did get into study interpreter , if the the door was sealed ? !
 And how he , Nikanor Ivanovich , about it not had asked ? '
 For some time chairman like sheep the stood staring at the steps the stairway , but then decided spit on it and not torment himself intricate with questions ... As the chairman left the apartment , from the bedroom a came low voice :
 ' I this Nikanor Ivanovich n't did .
 He a and crook .
 Can it so that he more n't come any ?
 'Messire 'Messire , you to have the say word ... ... responded from somewhere Koroviev , but not rattling but very in clear resounding and resounding voice .
 And once the accursed interpreter turned in front hall , dialled there number , and began for some reason very tearfully speaking into the receiver :
 'Hello 'Hello !
 I consider you it to inform that the our chairman tenants association tenants at no.502-bis no.502-bis on Sadovaya , Nikanor Ivanovich Sadovaya Bosoy , is speculating foreign currency .
 At the present moment in his he apartment has . four 55 in ventilation the , privy , in newspaper four hundred dollars .
 This is speaking a tenant the said house of , apartment 11 Timofei Kvastsov . But I adjure to keep a secret you my name . I fear vengeance of the above-stated chairman . '
 And he hung scoundrel , the scoundrel !
 What next happened in apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 is not known , but known what happened at Nikanor Ivanovich .
 Having locked himself in the privy the privy hook , he took the from briefcase wad foisted by interpreter him and satisfied himself that contained it four hundred roubles . this wad Nikanor Ivanovich wrapped in scrap newspaper and put it into the ventilation duct .
 later Five minutes the chairman was sitting at the table in his small dining room .
 His wife His brought from the kitchen neatly pickled sliced pickled herring , neatly thickly sliced sprinkled green onion .
 Nikanor Ivanovich poured a herring , drank it , poured another , drank , picked on fork three pieces herring ... and at that moment . Pelageya Antonovna was bringing steaming a pot from single a glance which just one could tell that , amidst amidst a fiery borscht , is which delicious there in the world - a marrow bone .
 Swallowing spittle , Nikanor Ivanovich growled his like a dog :
 'Damn Wo 'Damn them 'Damn eat ! man n't ...
 n't Do let anyone in , I not here , not here ...
 If 's the apartment , to them stop blathering . next week 'll be a meeting '
 His wife ran to front hall , while Nikanor Ivanovich using a ladle drew from fire-breathing lake it , the bone , cracked lengthwise .
 And at that moment the dining room entered two citizens , , with them for some very pale Pelageya Antonovna .
 Seeing Seeing the citizens , turned also Nikanor Ivanovich and stood up .
 'Where 'Where 's the Jakes ? ' preoccupied the asked first , one in white side-buttoned Jakes side-buttoned shirt .
 the dining table Something thudded ( this was Nikanor Ivanovich dropping the the ladle oilcloth ) .
 'This 'This way , way , ' patter replied Pelageya Antonovna .
 And the immediately hastened to the corridor .
 ` ^What the 's matter ? ` quietly asked Nikanor Ivanovich , going after the visitors . our anything that in apartment n't n't be ...
 And your papers ... your begging ... '
 The first , stopping , showed Nikanor Ivanovich a paper , and the second at the same moment was standing a on stool in the privy , his arm in the ventilation duct .
 in eyes Nikanor Ivanovich went . The newspaper was removed , but in wad were not roubles but some unknown money , bluish-greenish bluish-greenish bluish-greenish , and with the portrait some old man .
 However , all it Nikanor Ivanovich saw dimly , front of eyes in his were floating some sort of spots .
 'Dollars 'Dollars in the ventilation the pensively said first and asked Nikanor Ivanovich gently and courteously : 'Your 'Your little wad ? '
 'No 'No ! replied Nikanor Ivanovich dreadful in voice . 'Enemies stuck me with 'Enemies ! '
 'That 'That happens , ' agreed , first and the again gently added : 'Well 'Well the , have to rest turn in . '
 ' any I !
 I , God swear I never a finger laid it ! desperately cried chairman .
 He dashed to the chest , with a clatter pulled a drawer , and from it the briefcase , incoherently crying :
 'Here 'Here 's contract ... that an interpreter stuck ...
 Koroviev ... in pince-nez !
 He opened the briefcase , glanced into it , went in hand , put face and dropped the briefcase into the borscht .
 in the briefcase nothing There was : no Styopa 's letter , no contract , no foreigner 's passport , no money , no theatre pass .
 In short , nothing a except folding ruler .
 ` 'Comrades ! frenziedly the cried chairman . ` Catch them !
 There our in house are unclean powers ! '
 here is not known what imagined Pelageya Antonovna , only only she clasped hands and clasped cried :
 'Repent 'Repent , Ivanych ! You off lighter get .
 His eyes fists bloodshot , Nikanor Ivanovich raised his fists croaking over his head wife , croaking : 'Ohh 'Ohh , 'Ohh damned fool !
 Here he went slack and sank down on chair , evidently resolved to submit inevitable .
 During this time , Timofei Kondratievich Kvastsov on the landing chairman stood placing to the keyhole of door the apartment , now ear , now , melting with curiosity .
 later Five minutes tenants of house who were the in courtyard , saw chairman , accompanied by other two persons proceed directly to gates of the house .
 It was said said that Nikanor Ivanovich looked that he staggered , passed , like awful drunk , and was something muttering .
 And an after an unknown citizen appeared in apartment no 11 , just as Timofei Kondratievich was telling other tenants , spluttering with pinched , how the chairman , finger motioned from the kitchen hall Timofei Kondratievich the front , something they said and together him vanished .
 At the time same that disaster struck Nikanor Ivanovich , away from no.502-bis no.502-bis no.502-bis , on the same Sadovaya Street , , in office of the financial the director of , Rimsky sat two men : himself Rimsky and the administrator , Varenukha .
 The big office on second floor of theatre two windows had on Sadovaya and one , behind the back the findirector , who was sitting at desk , the summer garden Sadovaya the Variety , where there were refreshment a stands , and an open-air shooting stage .
 The furnishings the office , , apart the a desk , consisted of bunch of old posters hanging on the wall , a small table with a carafe water , four armchairs and a stand in the corner , on which stood a dust-covered past scale model dust-covered some review .
 Well , goes saying that , addition in , was in the office small shabby , , peeling fireproof safe , to left Rimsky , next to the desk .
 sitting at desk Rimsky since morning had been in bad spirits spirits , while Varenukha , , on the contrary contrary , , was very animated and somehow especially restlessly active .
 Yet outlet his energy no was . Varenukha was hiding presently in the office findirector the seekers , who poisoned his life , especially especially on days when programme .
 And today precisely was such day .
 As soon as started the ring telephone , Varenukha pick up the and lie into it : `` Who ?
 Varenukha ?
 He not here .
 He stepped out . ' 'Please Likhodeev again again , vexedly call Rimsky .
 'He 's not 'He home .
 I sent Karpov even . one in the apartment !
 Rimisky hissed Rimisky , clacking on the machine .
 The door opened , and an usher dragged in a thick stack freshly printed extra posters ; in green on background a big red letters was printed : Today Sances and Every Day at Theatre WOLAND Programme . PROFESSOR Black of Magic and its Full Exposure Varenukha back from the poster , which thrown pasted to scale model , stepped admired it and told to the usher immediately send all the posters out pasted up
 observed Varenukha on usher departure the usher .
 ` And I spitefully dislike extremely this undertaking , grumbled spitefully glancing at the poster through horn-rimmed horn-rimmed glasses , grumbled Rimsky , ` 'and generally I dislike 'm surprised surprised he been allowed it to present . '
 'No 'No , Grigory Grigory Danilovich , n't say , do so !
 This The salt is in subdue exposure . .
 ` I do know , I do know , salt no , and always he coming with 's things this ! ...
 He least might show us his magician !
 Have you him seen ?
 Where he him dug up , devil devil knows ! '
 It turned out that Varenukha magician more than Rimsky not had seen the magician .
 Yesterday Styopa ( 'like 'like crazy ' , in expression Rimsky ) had come to the findirector with the written already draft contract , ordered it copied and the handed money .
 And magician this had cleared out , and no one him no had seen , except himself Styopa .
 Rimsky took out watch , saw that that it read past five minutes two , and flew complete rage .
 Really !
 Likhodeev had called around in half hour , said said he 'd come at an , and not only not come , but from his apartment had disappeared .
 'He 'He my business holding ! ' was roaring Rimsky , jabbing jabbing finger at a pile unsigned papers .
 'Might 'Might have fallen 'Might he like Berlioz under tram-car ? said Varenukha , he held the receiver , from which came prolonged hopeless , prolonged and utterly hopeless signals .
 `` Would bad be thing ... `` barely audibly n't through his teeth said Rimsky .
 At that same moment into the office came woman in visored skirt , , black sneakers and sneakers .
 From a small pouch at belt the woman took small white square and notebook and notebook asked :
 `` Who here is Variety ?
 A super-lightning telegram .
 Sign here . '
 Varenukha scribbled some 's flourish in notebook the woman , and as as the door behind her slammed , he the square .
 After reading telegram , he blinked blinked and handed the square Rimsky .
 The telegram contained the following : 'Another Yalta to Moscow Today eleven brown-haired criminal investigation came trousers nightshirt trousers trousers shoeless gave name Likhodeev Director Wire Likhodeev Yalta criminal investigation where Director Likhodeev . ` Hello and you do ! exclaimed Rimsky , and added : ` 'Another surprise !
 Dmitri , 'said Varenukha and he spoke into the telegram . ' Telegraph telegram ? A office . Take a super-lightning .
 you Are listening ?
 `` Yalta criminal investigation . Director Likhodeev Moscow Findirector Rimsky . '' '
 Irrespective of the news about the Yalta impostor , Varenukha again began by telephone searching Styopa anywhere and naturally anywhere him not did find .
 Just Just as Varenukha , pondering in hand telegram , was pondering where he else call , came the same woman who brought first telegram , and handed Varenukha a new envelope .
 hurriedly Opening it , Varenukha read the message and whistled .
 'What 'What now ? ' nervously twitching , asked twitching Rimsky .
 Varenukha silently handed him , telegram and the findirector saw the there words : ` Beg believe thrown Yalta hypnosis Woland hypnosis criminal investigation confirm identity Likhodeev ' .
 Rimsky and Varenukha , each their heads , reread telegram , and rereading , silently stared each at other .
 'Citizens 'Citizens 'Sign ! ' the got woman . you , and then be silent as as much !
 I deliver lightnings ! '
 Varenukha , without taking the his eyes off telegram , crooked made scrawl in notebook , and the woman vanished .
 'Did 'Did you n't with him at a past eleven talk began on the phone ? ' in total bewilderment the administrator .
 'No , 's ridiculous ridiculous ! ridiculous shrilly cried Rimsky . Talk or not , ca n't he be now in Yalta !
 It ridiculous ! '
 'He 'He 's drunk ... ' said Varenukha .
 `` Who 's drunk ? `` asked Rimsky , and again the two stared each at other .
 That sent telegrams from Yalta some impostor or madman , there doubt no was . But the thing was strange : how did the Yalta mystifier know Woland , just the before who come to Moscow ?
 How did he know the about connection between Likhodeev and Woland ?
 'Hypnosis 'Hypnosis ... ' ' kept repeating Varenukha word from telegram . 'How 'How does he know about Woland ? He blinked his eyes and suddenly cried resolutely : 'Ah 'Ah no ! Nonsense Nonsense , nonsense !
 'Where 'Where 's he staying , this Woland , devil him take ? ' asked Rimsky .
 Varenukha immediately got connected with the bureau and , to utter 's astonishment Rimsky , announced that that Woland staying in 's apartment Likhodeev 's .
 Dialling after that number Likhodeev the apartment , Varenukha long listened to low buzzing in the receiver .
 Amidst the buzzing Amidst from away , came a heavy gloomy , gloomy voice , singing : ' ... rocks , my refuge ... 'and 'and Varenukha decided that that the telephone lines had voice from a radio show .
 n't answer The apartment , said Varenukha , putting the down receiver , maybe should call ...
 He not did finish . in the door appeared The same woman , and both men , Rimsky and Varenukha , rose meet her to , while she took from pouch not a white , but some sort of dark one sheet .
 This beginning is to interesting , his through teeth Varenukha , his following hurriedly departing woman .
 first the sheet was take hold Rimsky .
 On dark background of photographic paper , barely were discernible black handwritten discernible handwritten lines : 'Proof 'Proof urgently handwriting my my handwriting signature urgently confirmation confirmation urgently secret Woland Likhodeev ' . In twenty years his of work in theatre Varenukha , seen all of , but here he felt obscured mind his becoming obscured veil as once obscured a , and he nothing could find say but mundane and utterly utterly mundane absurd the phrase :
 ' This not can be !
 Rimsky otherwise acted .
 He stood up , opened the door , barked out to the messenger girl sitting on :
 'Let one except postmen ' no 'Let in ! - and locked the door a key .
 Then he took a out the desk papers and began carefully compare back-slanting the , letters letters photogram with the in Styopa 's resolutions and signatures , furnished a corkscrew corkscrew flourish .
 Varenukha , leaning his the on table , hotly breathed on cheek Rimsky .
 ` It 's his handwriting , finally firmly said findirector , and Varenukha repeated an like echo : 'His 'His .
 Peering into face Rimsky , the administrator marvelled the change that had come over this face .
 Thin the findirector still thinner thinner and even , eyes his in their horn rims had lost their customary prickliness , and appeared in them not only alarm sorrow , but even alarm sorrow .
 Varenukha did everything that a ought man in moment of great astonishment .
 He and down office carafe raced , he twice raised arms like crucified and drank a whole glass of yellowish water from , exclaimed : ' I I understand ! !
 I un-der-stand !
 Rimsky meanwhile was looking out the window , about something thinking .
 position The findirector was very difficult . It was necessary once , on the spot , invent ordinary explanations for phenomena extraordinary .
 Narrowing , the findirector pictured himself Styopa in a nightshirt shoeless , nightshirt shoeless at around half past eleven into some super-high-speed unprecedented super-high-speed airplane , and then the same Styopa , and also at half past eleven , standing in his feet at the airport in Yalta ... devil knew what it !
 Maybe it was not Styopa this talked with him over the phone from his own apartment ?
 No , it was speaking Styopa !
 he Who not should know Styopa 's voice ?
 And if today it not Styopa speaking , it was no earlier than yesterday , towards yesterday evening , Styopa from his office had come to this very office with this idiotic contract and annoyed the findirector his light-mindedness .
 How could he have gone away or flown word without leaving at the theatre ?
 But if had he flown yesterday evening noon - by noon today not he arrived have .
 Or would he ?
 'How 'How many miles to it Yalta ? ' asked Rimsky .
 Varenukha stopped his running and yelled : ' that I ! already thought it !
 to Sebastopol By train train over nine hundred miles , to Yalta plus another nine fifty !
 Well but by air , , of course , less . '
 Hm ... Yes ... There of any trains no could be question .
 But what then ?
 Some fighter plane ?
 Who would fighter plane let his Styopa without shoes ? What for ? Maybe he took shoes when he got to Yalta ?
 It the same thing : what for ?
 And even with shoes his fighter him n't they would let !
 And the fighter it with ?
 It 's written that he to investigators at in half eleven the morning , and talked he on the telephone in Moscow ... excuse me ... before the of eyes Rimsky emerged his watch ... remember where been the . Terrible !
 It been twenty minutes past eleven !
 So what does it boil ?
 If one supposes that instantly after the conversation Styopa rushed to the airport and reached it in five , say was , minutes , which , incidentally incidentally , also unthinkable , it means that the plane , taking off at once , in five minutes covered nearly a thousand miles .
 Consequently , an hour it was flying at twelve thousand miles ! ! !
 That not can be , and that means he not in 's Yalta !
 What remains , ?
 Hypnosis ?
 There 's no hypnosis that can fling man a thousand miles away in world !
 So 's he imagining imagining that he 's in Yalta ?
 He may be imagining imagining it , but Yalta investigators investigators also imagining it ?
 No , no , sorry , that n't be ! ...
 Yet did telegraph they from there ? The face findirector was literally dreadful .
 The door handle was all the while turned pulled and , and heard through the messenger girl the door desperately crying : 'Impossible 'Impossible n't ! I let you !
 Cut me pieces ! !
 It a meeting ! '
 Rimsky well as could , regained control himself , took the the phone and said into it : ' please super-urgent call to Yalta .
 'Clever 'Clever ! ' mentally observed Varenukha .
 But the conversation with Yalta did not place .
 Rimsky hung up the receiver and said : 'As 'As it , line 's broken .
 It seen that line him for some especially upset the and even made him lapse thought .
 Having thought little , he again took in the receiver one hand , other began writing down what he said into it :
 Take a super-lightning .
 Variety . Yes . Yalta investigation .
 Yes . 'Today 'Today around eleven thirty Likhodeev talked me phone Moscow After that work not unable locate phone did stop Confirm handwriting Confirm handwriting Taking watch said artiste . Findirector Rimsky ' '' 'Very 'Very clever clever ! ' thought rushed Varenukha , but he think , through the head his rushed words : 'Stupid 'Stupid !
 n't ca be He in Yalta ! '
 Rimsky meanwhile meanwhile did the following : neatly stacked all the received telegrams , copy own stack put into envelope , sealed it , wrote on it few words and handed to it Varenukha , saying :
 'Go right now there , Ivan Savelyevich , personally take it .
 Let them sort .
 'Now 'Now is that really clever clever ! ' he Varenukha and put envelope into his briefcase .
 Then he , , just in case dialled on the telephone number Styopa 's apartment , listened and grimacing joyfully and joyfully mysteriously winking and grimacing .
 Rimsky stretched neck .
 'May the artiste Woland 'May speak ? ' sweetly with asked Varenukha .
 ` Mister 's busy , answered the receiver rattling in voice , ` 'who rattling 's calling ?
 ' The administrator of , Varenukha Varenukha .
 ` Ivan Savelyevich ? ` joyfully cried the receiver . Terribly glad cried to hear your voice !
 How 're you doing ? '
 'Merci 'Merci , in amazement replied Varenukha , 'and 'and with whom I am speaking ? '
 'His 'His assistant , assistant his and interpreter Koroviev , ' crackled interpreter receiver . entirely at your service , my dearest Ivan Savelyevich ! !
 Order around me as you .
 And so ?
 ` Excuse me , but what , Stepan Bogdanovich Likhodeev now Excuse not home ? '
 'Alas 'Alas , no !
 No ! ! shouted receiver the 'He left .
 'For 'For where ?
 'Out 'Out town , drive in the car . '
 'Wh 'Wh ... what ? A dr ... drive ?
 And when will he be back ? '
 'He 'He said , I get fresh air and come back . '
 ` So ... puzzled said Varenukha , 'merci kindly kindly tell Monsieur Woland that performance his is in the third part programme .
 'Right Of . course . Absolutely .
 Urgently .
 Without fail .
 abruptly , 'the abruptly rapped 'the receiver .
 'Goodbye 'Goodbye in astonishment , said Varenukha .
 'Please 'Please accept , said receiver , 'my best warmest , warmest greetings and wishes !
 For success !
 Luck !
 Complete happiness !
 Everything !
 'But of course ! I say so ! agitatedly cried the administrator . 's any Yalta , just he went the to country ! '
 'Well 'Well , if that 's so swinishness with swinishness the findirector , 'it 'it real even swinishness , it no name ! '
 Here the administrator jumped up and shouted so that Rimsky gave :
 ` I remember !
 I remember ! in Pushkino opened a tavern tavern Yalta !
 It 's clear !
 He went there , drunk and now from there telegrams ! '
 'Well 'Well , now that much ! twitching cheek answered Rimsky , and in cheek eyes his burned , genuine anger . he this excursion 's suddenly He faltered and irresolutely added : 'But 'But what about , the criminal investigation ...
 'It 'It 's nonsense !
 His own little jokes , ' interrupted expansive the administrator and asked : 'Shall 'Shall 'Shall envelope take envelope ?
 'Absolutely 'Absolutely , ' replied Rimsky .
 And again opened the door and came that same ...
 'Her 'Her ! ' , for some reason with anguish thought anguish Rimsky . And both men rose meet to postwoman .
 This This time the telegram contained the words : 'He Thank you confirmation urgently five hundred urgently criminal investigation my tomorrow fly Moscow Likhodeev ' . 'He 's mind lost ... weakly said Varenukha .
 Rimsky jingled his key , counted from fireproof money , took five hundred roubles , , rang handed the messenger the money and sent him to telegraph .
 'Good 'Good heavens , Grigory Grigory Danilovich , not believing his heavens eyes , said Varenukha , 'in my n't opinion you ought money send the . '
 'It 'It 'll come back , replied Rimsky quietly . 'but 'but he hard have explaining explaining this picnic , And he added , indicating the briefcase Varenukha : 'Go 'Go , Ivan Savelyevich , n't do delay . '
 And Varenukha with briefcase ran out of the office .
 He went down to the ground floor , saw the longest line at box office , found out from the box-office girl that she within hour out , because since the public simply pouring pouring put was the additional , told the girl earmark and sell hold thirty the best seats in the gallery and stalls , popped out box office shook off importunate pass-seekers and dived into his little office , to get cap .
 At that moment rattled the telephone .
 'Yes 'Yes ! ' shouted Varenukha .
 'Ivan 'Ivan Savelyevich ? ' inquired the receiver most repulsive nasal in voice .
 'He 'He 's not in the theatre ! ' shouting was Varenukha , but the receiver him interrupted : 'Do 'Do n't play the fool , Ivan Savelyevich , just listen .
 Do telegrams those anywhere not take or anyone not show to . '
 'Who 'Who this is ? ' bellowed Varenukha . , citizen 'Stop these jokes !
 You found out !
 What your number ?
 'Varenukha 'Varenukha , ' returned the same nasty voice , 'do you Russian understand ?
 n't take the telegrams . '
 'Ah 'Ah , , so you n't wo stop ? the administrator furiously . 'Look 'Look then !
 You 're to pay for it He other shouted some threat , but fell , because he sensed that in the him no one was any listening .
 Here in his office somehow quickly began grow dark .
 Varenukha ran out , slammed behind him the door , and through the side entrance rushed into the summer garden .
 The administrator was agitated and full energy . After insolent phone call he no had doubts doubts , that hooligans band playing nasty tricks and that these tricks were connected with disappearance of Likhodeev .
 desire to expose the malefactors was The administrator , and , as it strange was , in him the was born anticipation something enjoyable .
 It happens way when a man strives to become centre of attention , to bring somewhere sensational news .
 In the garden the wind blew in face the administrator and flung his in eyes sand , as if blocking way , as if cautioning .
 slammed the second on floor window slammed so that nearly the broke glass , the tops of the maples lindens and lindens alarmingly rustled darker colder and . .
 The administrator rubbed his eyes and saw that that over Moscow low was creeping a yellow-bellied storm cloud .
 There came a dense rumbling .
 However great Varenukha , an irrepressible hurry desire pulled at him to run a second the summer toilet , to check whether had put whether the a the screen light-bulb .
 Running past the gallery , Varenukha came to a thick growth lilacs lilacs where stood lilacs the light-blue building toilet .
 The repairman turned be an fellow , bulb under roof the gentlemen 's side was already covered with a wire screen , but was the administrator that even in the pre-storm darkness could make out that walls already were written charcoal and pencil .
 'Well 'Well , what of ... began the administrator and suddenly heard him behind voice a purring : 'Is 'Is that you , Ivan Savelyevich ?
 Varenukha started , turned around and saw before him a cat-like short fat man what seemed to , with cat-like a physiognomy .
 'So 'So , me , hostilely answered Varenukha .
 'Very 'Very , very glad , squeaky in voice the responded cat-like fat man and , suddenly swinging his , swinging gave Varenukha on ear such that the cap flew off head the administrator 's and without vanished in the seat .
 At the blow fat , whole toilet lit momentarily tremulous a light , and in sky echoed a roll .
 Then another came and before the administrator emerged second - short , but with athletic shoulders , red as fire , a fang eye , albugo in fang mouth ...
 This second one , evidently evidently a lefty socked the administrator on the other ear .
 In response there another thunder poured in the thunder sky , and on the wooden roof toilet was toilet .
 ` What it , comr ... ' the whispered half-crazed administrator , whispered realized at once that that word 'comrades 'citiz 'comrades ' hardly not the bandits attacking a man in public toilet , rasped : ` 'citiz ... figured he that this appellation they not merit , and received third half-crazed a terrible blow know from which of them , so that blood nose from gushed to Tolstoy .
 'What 'What you got in briefcase , parasite ? ' shrilly cried the resembling a . 'Telegrams 'Telegrams ?
 Were n't warned over the phone to you them anywhere not take ?
 you warned , I 'm warned asking you ?
 ` I wor ... wer ... warned ... the suffocating answered administrator suffocating .
 ` And you off anyway skipped ?
 Gim me the briefcase , vermin ! ' the same nasal in voice , that had come the over telephone he cried second and yanked the briefcase from 's trembling hands Varenukha .
 And two the picked the administrator under arms , , dragged him out of garden and raced with him down Sadovaya .
 The raged at full a force , water with foamy and streamed down the drains , everywhere bubbled gushed roofs , the past roofs the drainpipes , from gateways ran foamy streams . Everything living washed off Sadovaya , and to save Ivan Savelyevich was no one .
 Leaping through muddy rivers , under flashes lightning , the bandits in a split second dragged the half-alive administrator to no.502-bis no.502-bis , , flew pressed with him through gateway , where wall pressed themselves two barefoot women , their shoes and stockings holding their in hands . Then they dashed into the sixth entrance , and , to insane Varenukha was taken up to the fifth floor and thrown down in well known him semi-dark front apartment Styopa Likhodeev 's .
 Here the two robbers vanished , and place their there appeared in in front hall completely naked a girl - red-haired , with burning a phosphorescent eyes gleam .
 Varenukha understood that that this was the most terrible of things that ever happened to him and , moaning , recoiled against the wall .
 But the girl came right to the administrator and placed the palms hands his on shoulders .
 's hair Varenukha stood , because even through the cold cloth , water-soaked water-soaked cloth Tolstoy blouse he could feel that palms those still colder , that their cold was the of ice cold .
 ` Let me you a kiss , ` said girl , and in his were shining eyes eyes . Then Varenukha fainted and the kiss never felt .
 The woods on opposite of bank river , still hour earlier lit up the by May sun , turned dull , smeary and smeary dissolved .
 Water a solid sheet fell down outside the window .
 In sky the flashed threads and sky bursting , the 's room patient 's was flooded tremulous frightening a light .
 Ivan quietly wept , sitting on the and looking out at muddy boiling with bubbles river .
 At every clap of thunder , he pitifully cried out and buried his face hands .
 Ivan Pages writing lay about on floor . They blown by the wind that flew into the room before began the storm .
 The attempts poet to write a statement the terrible consultant had gone nowhere .
 As soon as he got from fat the attendant , whose name was Praskovya Fyodorovna the pencil stub and paper , he hastily and hastily settled himself at the table .
 The beginning came out quite glibly .
 To the police .
 From member Massolit member Ivan Nikolaevich Homeless . A statement . Yesterday evening I came with the deceased M. A. Berlioz to the Patriarch 's Ponds ... '
 And there poet the got confused , mainly mainly owing to word 'deceased 'deceased ' . Some once nonsensicality emerged 's nonsensicality : what this - came with the deceased ?
 n't The go deceased !
 Really for , him knew , for madman !
 Having reflected thus , Ivan Nikolaevich began to correct what he written . came was : ' ... with M. A. Berlioz , subsequently deceased ... ' did This not satisfy the author .
 He had recourse a third redaction , which proved still worse than first two : 'Berlioz ... 'Berlioz , who fell under tram-car ... ' - and here also was dangling that anyone unknown namesake composer , , so had put in : 'not ... 'not the composer ... '
 After suffering over these two Berliozes , Ivan all crossed it out and decided begin off with something very strong , order once to attract attention the reader , he wrote that that a cat had got a tram-car , and then went back to the episode with the severed head .
 The and head 's prediction the consultant led him to the thought of Pontius Pilate , and for greater conviction Ivan decided whole the story of procurator tell full from the moment , he in white cloak with blood-red lining walked to the colonnade 's of palace .
 Ivan worked assiduously , crossing out what he written , putting in new words , and even attempted to draw Pontius Pilate and and then a cat on hind its legs .
 But the drawings not did help , and the confusing the confusing and incomprehensible became 's statement poet .
 By the time , appeared the frightening cloud with smoking edges and covered woods and began blow the wind , Ivan felt , that strengthless , that with the statement he never be manage , not he pick up the pages and quietly and bitterly wept .
 The good-natured nurse Praskovya Fyodorovna visited the poet during the storm , became alarmed seeing him weeping , closed picked up blinds lightning so that the lightning not frighten the patient , the pages from floor and with them ran for the doctor .
 He came , gave an injection in the arm Ivan and assured him that that he more weep not would , that now everything would pass , everything change forgotten , everything forgotten .
 The doctor proved right .
 Soon the woods became . It was outlined to last tree under sky , which to former perfect blue , and river river grew calm .
 Anguish had begun leave Ivan right after the injection , and now the poet lay calmly and looked at rainbow that stretched across the sky .
 So it went till evening , and he even not did notice how rainbow melted , how saddened and saddened sky , how the woods .
 Having drunk drunk some hot milk , Ivan down again lay and himself marvelled at how changed his thinking was .
 somehow softened in memory The accursed demonic cat , not frighten more the severed head , and , abandoning all thought of it , began to reflect Ivan , that , , in the clinic was not , that Stravinsky and clever famous one and it deal with him was quite pleasant .
 the evening air Besides was sweet and fresh after the .
 The sorrow was falling .
 In quiet corridors the went frosted faint white , and place their according regulations , were frosted faint blue night-lights , and rarely attendants were heard the careful on the rubber matting of corridor .
 Now Ivan lay in sweet its languor , glancing at lamp under languor ceiling , shedding from the a softened light , then at the moon rising behind the black woods , and conversed himself with himself .
 'Why 'Why , actually , I so excited about Berlioz falling under tram-car ? the reasoned poet .
 ` In the final analysis , let him sink !
 What I , in fact fact , his chum or chum in-law ?
 If properly we air the question , turns out that I , in essence , even really not did know the deceased .
 , indeed , What I about him did know ?
 Nothing Nothing except except that that he was bald and terribly eloquent eloquent .
 And furthermore , citizens , ` continued his speech Ivan , addressing someone or other , ` 's : why this I , let sort tell me , get furious at this mysterious consultant magician , magician and professor with the black and empty eye ?
 Why all this absurd chase after him in underpants shenanigans and with a candle in hand , and then those wild shenanigans in the restaurant ? '
 ` 'Uh-uh-uh the sternly suddenly sternly said somewhere either inside , or over his ear , former new Ivan Ivan . ` that head Berlioz 's cut off , He he n't did know beforehand ?
 How could not get excited ? '
 'What 'What , comrades , talking ? ' the objected new Ivan , former Ivan to .
 He a person not one-hundred-per-cent outstanding and proper mysterious here . !
 But 's that 's the interesting thing !
 The man personally was acquainted with Pontius Pilate , what could more be interesting that ?
 And instead , of raising stupid rumpus at the Ponds , n't it would been have intelligent question politely about a what happened further with Pilate and his prisoner Ha-Nozri ?
 And I devil knows what started !
 A major , really - occurrence a editor magazine run over !
 And so for that , magazine going what , shut down ?
 Well , what be about it ? Man is mortal and , as rightly been said has , unexpectedly mortal .
 Well , peace in he !
 Well so , be another editor and maybe , maybe even more eloquent than the previous ! '
 After dozing while , Ivan new sarcastically asked the old Ivan :
 'And 'And what does me , in that case ? '
 ' fool Ivans ! ' distinctly said somewhere a bass , not belonging to either of Ivans and distinctly extremely like the bass the consultant .
 Ivan , for some reason not offended by the word 'fool 'fool ' , but even pleasantly surprised it , smiled and grew .
 Sleep stealing over Ivan , and he a tree on elephant 's leg , and a cat picturing passing not scary , but merry - and , , Ivan , when in the grille noiselessly was moved the , and on balcony appeared a mysterious figure , hiding from the moonlight moonlight , and shook at Ivan finger .
 Ivan Not the sat up in bed and saw that that on balcony was a man . And this man , pressing a finger to his lips , whispered :
 'Shhh 'Shhh !
 A small man in a yellow bowler-hat and with a pear-shaped raspberry-coloured nose , in checkered trousers and patent-leather shoes rolled to the stage the Variety on ordinary two-wheeled bicycle .
 To sounds of foxtrot he made circle , and then gave shout a triumphant shout , which bicycle caused rear up his .
 After riding on the back wheel , man turned contrived upside , contrived unscrew the front wheel and send backstage it pedals , and then proceeded way on one wheel , turning the with hands .
 On tall a metal pole with a seat at the top and a single wheel , rolled a blonde in tights and little skirt strewn with silver stars , and began riding in a circle .
 As he met her , man uttered cries of cries greeting , doffing with foot bowler-hat .
 Finally , a eight-year-old eight-year-old with eight-year-old elderly an face and scooting among eight-year-old the adults on a tiny two-wheeler an enormous automobile horn . After making the several loops , whole company to alarming of drum-beats the orchestra rolled to very edge stage , and spectators front rows gasped and drew back , because the public it seemed that whole the trio with its vehicles was crash down into orchestra .
 But the bicycles stopped just at the moment when the front wheels threatened slide the into abyss on the heads the musicians .
 cyclists With a loud shout of 'Hup 'Hup ! ' jumped off vehicles and bowed , the blonde woman blowing the public kisses , and little one tooting a funny signal on his horn .
 Applause shook the building , the light-blue curtain came from both sides and covered cyclists , Exit ' by the doors went out , and in the of trapezes under the cupola like the sun lit up white spheres . It was intermission before the last part .
 The only man who was the bit least not interested in wonders of cycling technique the family Giulli was was Grigory Grigory Danilovich Rimsky .
 In complete solitude he sat in his office , biting his thin lips face , over his time to time passing spasm .
 To disappearance of Likhodeev been added wholly unforeseen disappearance of Varenukha .
 Rimsky knew where where he had gone , but he had gone and ... not come back !
 Rimsky shrugged shoulders and whispered to himself : 'But 'But for what ? '
 And was it strange : such practical man as the findirector , the simplest thing , of course , been to call the place where where gone Varenukha , and find out what had befallen , yet him he until ten o'clock night unable been force himself do it .
 At ten ten , doing to himself outright violence , Rimsky picked up the receiver and here discovered that that telephone his was dead .
 The messenger messenger reported that that the other telephones in the building were also .
 This , certainly , unpleasant , though hardly unpleasant supernatural occurrence for some thoroughly shocked the findirector , but at the same time was fell : the away need to call .
 Just Just as as over head the findirector lit and blinked the red light blinked , announcing the beginning intermission , came in a messenger and announcing informed him of arrival the foreign 's artiste .
 The findirector for some cringed , and , a cringed blacker storm cloud , him went backstage , to receive visitor , since there else receive was no one .
 the big from the corridor , where already was the signal bell ringing , Under various curious pretexts kept peeking curious people .
 Among them were conjurers in bright robes robes turbans and , a skater in a white knitted turbans jacket , powder storyteller and make-up man .
 newly arrived The celebrity struck everyone his marvellously seen length , marvellously cut tailcoat and by , having come in a black half-mask .
 But most remarkable were two the companions black magician : a long one with cracked pince-nez and black cat , who came into room on hind legs and quite nonchalantly sat on sofa squinting at the bare make-up lights .
 Rimsky attempted to produce a on face , which it made sour spiteful and sour , and bowed to silent black magician , who seated on beside cat the sofa .
 There handshake no was .
 Instead the easygoing checkered one own made introductions to fin-director , calling himself 'the 'the 's assistant ' .
 This circumstance surprised the findirector , and unpleasantly unpleasantly so : in the contract there decidedly no was mention of any assistant .
 Quite stiffly stiffly and drily Grigory Grigory Danilovich inquired this fallen-from-the-sky fallen-from-the-sky fallen-from-the-sky checkered of one where paraphernalia the artiste .
 'Our diamond 'Our heavenly , most precious mister director , rattling in voice replied assistant magician , 'the 'the paraphernalia is always with us . Here is it !
 Ein , zwei , drei ! ' And , waving knotty before fingers eyes Rimsky knotty 's , suddenly he took from behind the cat ear 's own Rimsky gold watch and chain , hitherto worn by the findirector in findirector waistcoat pocket under waistcoat buttoned buttoned , , with the through a chain buttonhole .
 Rimsky inadvertently inadvertently clutched his stomach , those present gasped , and the man , peeking in doorway , approvingly grunted .
 Your little watchie ?
 Kindly take it , casually smiling , said the checkered one and on bewildered dirty palm offering checkered bewildered Rimsky his own property .
 'No with that a tram 'No getting , ' quietly and merrily whispered the storyteller make-up man .
 But the cat pulled a the number with the stolen watch .
 unexpectedly Getting up from sofa , he on hind legs walked to the dressing table paw , front paw pulled stopper out glass , poured water into carafe whiskers , drank it , wiped stopper in place and a cloth whiskers .
 Here no one even gasped , simply mouths fell open , and the man whispered admiringly whispered : 'That 'That 's class !
 Just then the third time alarmingly rang for the bells dressing , and everyone , agitated and anticipating an interesting number , thronged out the dressing room .
 A moment later in the theatre the went blazed spheres , , lending reddish glow a to base the curtain the , and in the lighted gap of the curtain appeared before the public a , plump as baby man with clean-shaven rumpled face , in rumpled tailcoat and none-too-fresh shirt .
 This was well the known all Moscow master ceremonies - Georges Bengalsky .
 'And 'And now , citizens , began Bengalsky , smiling baby smile , 'there 'there before to you is ... Here Bengalsky interrupted his himself and interrupted spoke in different a tone : ' I see the audience for the third part has grown .
 We got half city !
 the other day met I a friend and said to him : `` Why do you come show to our ?
 Yesterday . we had half the city '' ''
 And he me says to : `` I live in the other half ! '' ' Bengalsky paused paused , waiting for burst of laughter , but as as no one laughed , , he went on : `` ... And so , comes famous the foreign artiste Monsieur Woland with sance of black magic .
 Well , we 're and you know smiled , ' here Bengalsky smiled a wise smile , 'that no 's in the world and that it thing such just superstition , simply Maestro Woland perfect is a technique conjuring , as shall see from most the interesting part , that is conjuring the exposure this technique , and since since we all man both for technique and for its exposure , 's bring on Mr Woland ! '
 After uttering all this claptrap , Bengalsky pressed his palms greeting and greeting waved them the slit the curtain , which it soft and waved caused part .
 The entrance magician with his long assistant and the cat , who came on stage on hind his legs , greatly pleased the audience . 'An 'An armchair me , ' low ordered Woland , and that same second no knew how or where , on stage an appeared armchair , in which the sat down magician . 'Tell 'Tell me , my gentle Fagott , ` inquired Woland of the checkered clown checkered clown , had evidently you think another appellation than Koroviev Koroviev , ` what n't , the Moscow populace significantly has changed ? '
 The magician looked out at hushed , struck by the appearance of the armchair out nowhere the audience .
 `` That has , Messire , `` a low replied Fagott-Koroviev .
 `` You 're right .
 The city folk greatly have changed ... externally , as has itself city , that incidentally ...
 mention their clothing Not to call , appeared these ... what them ... trams , automobiles ... ...
 'Buses 'Buses '-Fagott deferentially '-Fagott prompted .
 The audience attentively listened to this conversation , thinking thinking it constituted a prelude to the magic tricks .
 The wings were packed performers and stage-hands , and among their faces could seen the tense , tense pale of face Rimsky .
 The physiognomy Bengalsky , who retreated to side of stage , began show some perplexity .
 He raised eyebrow slightly and , taking of pause , spoke :
 `` The foreign artiste expressing his admiration Moscow and its technological development , as well as for the Muscovites . `` Here Bengalsky twice smiled , first to stalls , then the gallery .
 Woland , Fagott and the cat turned their heads in direction the master ceremonies .
 'Did 'Did I express admiration ? ' the asked the magician checkered Fagott .
 'By 'By means , Messire , you any admiration never expressed , ' came reply the .
 ' Then what is saying the man ?
 'He quite 'He simply lied ! sonorously , for whole theatre declared the checkered assistant and , turning to Bengalsky , he added : 'Congrats 'Congrats you , citizen , done lied ! '
 from the gallery spattered Tittering , but Bengalsky gave and goggled his eyes .
 'Of I 'Of course , not so much interested in buses telephones , telephones and other ...
 'Apparatuses 'Apparatuses , prompted the checkered one .
 'Quite 'Quite right , thank you , ` slowly the spoke magician heavy in bass , ` as much greater a importance question : changed have the city folk inwardly ?
 `` Yes , that the important question , sir . '
 in There was shrugging and exchanging glances glances wings , Bengalsky stood all red , and Rimsky was pale .
 But here , as if sensing nascent alarm , the magician said : 'However 'However , we talking away , dear Fagott Fagott , and the audience is bored . My show to start some thing simple .
 The audience stirred stirred .
 Fagott and the cat walked to opposite sides along the footlights . Fagott snapped his fingers and rollicking rollicking Three , four ! ' snatched from air a deck cards , shuffled it and ribbon sent the cat .
 The cat intercepted and sent it back .
 The satiny snake whiffled , Fagott opened swallowed his like a nestling and all it card by card , swallowed .
 After which the cat bowed scraping , scraping his right hind paw , himself unbelievable applause .
 'Class 'Class ! class ! ' rapturous shouts came the wings .
 And Fagott jabbed his finger at stalls and announced : 'You that deck , esteemed citizens , find in the seventh row on citizen citizen Parchevsky , between a three-rouble and a summons to court in connection the payment of alimony to Zeikova .
 in stalls deck was stirring , began get up , and finally some citizen whose whose indeed name was Parchevsky , all crimson with amazement , extracted from his wallet the and began sticking it in the air , not knowing to what with it do .
 'You 'You it may keep as souvenir ! ' cried Fagott .
 'Not 'Not nothing for you say yesterday at dinner that that were n't poker life your in Moscow would be utterly unbearable . '
 ` An trick ! ' came from gallery stalls . ` one is from the same company . '
 'You 'You think so ? ' shouted Fagott , squinting at the gallery . 'In that case , also you your of us , because the is in deck pocket ! '
 the balcony was movement , and said joyful voice :
 'Right 'Right !
 He it ! Here , here ...
 Wait ! It 's ten-rouble bills !
 Those sitting in the stalls turned their heads .
 In the gallery a bank-wrapped bewildered citizen found in his in pocket a packet bank-wrapped with written on it 'One 'One thousand roubles roubles ' .
 His neighbours hovered over him , and he , in amazement , picked fingernail the wrapper fingernail , trying find out if the if were wrapper bills or some of magic ones .
 'By 'By God , they real !
 Ten-rouble bills ! ' cries came from the gallery joyful .
 ' I want play to with the same deck , merrily requested of man stalls in middle stalls .
 ` Avec playzeer ! responded Fagott . ` But why you ?
 Everyone Everyone will warmly participate ! ' And he commanded : 'Look please 'Look up ! ...
 One ! ' in hand There his was a pistol . He shouted : 'Two 'Two !
 The pistol was pointed up .
 He shouted : 'Three 'Three ! , a bang , and all at once from under the cupola , , bobbing between the trapezes , began falling into theatre white strips paper .
 They twirled aside , were blown , towards the gallery , bounced into orchestra and to the stage .
 In a few seconds the money rain , ever thickening , reached the seats , and spectators began the snatching snatching .
 were raised Hundreds arms , spectators up bills held to the lighted stage and the saw the true honest-to-God and honest-to-God watermarks watermarks .
 The smell also no left doubts : it was incomparably delightful incomparably delightful smell freshly of freshly printed money .
 The first merriment with and then amazement was seized whole theatre .
 The everywhere hummed word 'money 'money , money ' , there were gasps of 'ah 'ah , ah ! ! ' and merry laughter .
 One or two already crawling in , under . Many crawling stood on aisles chairs seats , catch the flighty , capricious notes .
 the faces of policemen was gradually coming Bewilderment , and policemen performers unceremoniously unceremoniously began sticking their from the wings .
 In the circle a was heard voice : ` What grabbing at ? It 's mine , it me flew ! ' and another voice : 'Do 'Do me n't shove , you 'll get shoved ! '
 And suddenly the there came whack .
 At once a in the dress circle appeared helmet policeman and from dress circle 's someone was away .
 The agitation was increasing , and no knows one where would all it ended , if Fagott not had stopped the money rain by suddenly blowing into the air .
 Two young men , exchanging significant and merry glances , took off from seats and made straight the buffet . in the theatre There was a hum , the all spectators excitedly glittered excitedly eyes .
 Yes , yes , no knows , where would all it ended summoned if Bengalsky not summoned his strength and had acted .
 Trying gain control of himself , , he in his hands and voice most resounding resounding spoke thus : 'Here 'Here , citizens , you and I beheld case so-called of so-called mass hypnosis .
 A purely scientific experiment , in the way possible proving that that there miracles in miracles magic no are .
 Let ask us Maestro Woland to expose us this experiment . Presently , citizens , you will see these supposed banknotes disappear as as suddenly as as they appeared . '
 Here he applauded , but quite alone , while a face his played was confident smile , yet in eyes such confidence no , but rather in his there an expression entreaty .
 The audience 's speech Bengalsky not did like .
 Total fell silence checkered , which was broken by the checkered Fagott .
 ` this is a so-called case so-called so-called lying , announced he loud , goatish tenor . ` The notes , citizens are , genuine .
 'Bravo 'Bravo ! ' a barked bass somewhere on high .
 incidentally incidentally , This , ' here Fagott pointed to Bengalsky , 'annoys me 'annoys .
 Keeps the observations where where his him nobody 's asked , false with spoils sance !
 What 're we going with him do ? '
 Tear his Tear off ! ' said someone severely in the gallery .
 'What 'What you 's said ?
 Eh ? ' at once responded suggestion to this outrageous suggestion Fagott . head Tear ?
 There idea !
 Behemoth ! shouted he cat . 'Go 'Go it !
 Ein , zwei , drei ! !
 And occurred an unheard-of thing .
 The fur on 's back bristled the , and he a rending gave . Then he compressed into a ball and like a panther shot straight at chest Bengalsky , and from there head .
 Growling plump paws the cat sank his into the skimpy chevelure the of and , in two twists tore the head from with the a neck .
 two and a half thousand people in the theatre cried out as one .
 Blood spurted fountains from arteries the torn tailcoat spurted over and poured the and .
 The headless body somehow absurdly paddled feet and sat on . the floor audience came Hysterical 's cries women .
 The handed the head to Fagott , who up the hair lifted it it and showed the audience , and head the desperately cried all theatre :
 ' A doctor ! '
 'Will 'Will you pour in future out such drivel ? ' menacingly asked Fagott the weeping head .
 'Never 'Never again again ! ' croaked the head .
 'For 'For God , n't do torture him ! ' a clamour suddenly rose from box seat woman 's voice , and magician turned the in direction that of voice .
 'So 'So what then , citizens we , forgive him , shall ? 'So him '
 'Forgive 'Forgive him , forgive him ! ' spoke first separate , mostly women 's voices , then then the merged into one chorus with men 's .
 'What 'What are your orders , Messire ? ' asked Fagott masked man .
 'Well now , pensively replied , 'they other people like people ... They love money , but has that always been ... ...
 Mankind loves money , whatever 's it 's made of- of- , , bronze , gold .
 Well , they light-minded ... well , what it mercy sometimes knocks at their hearts ... ordinary people ... In general , reminiscent of the former ... ... the housing problem only corrupted them And loudly he ordered : 'Put 'Put the head . '
 cat , aiming accurately , planted the head on neck , and it exactly sat in its place , as if it anywhere had never gone .
 Above all , even scar on the neck there any not was left .
 The paws brushed 's Bengalsky and tailcoat his , and from them disappeared traces of blood .
 Fagott got the sitting Bengalsky to feet , stuck him into pocket the a packet money pocket , and sent from stage with the words : 'Buzz 'Buzz , ! without you '
 Staggering senselessly Staggering and looking , the master plodded no than of the fire post when he felt sick . He out pitifully cried : 'My head 'My my , head ! '
 Among those to him rushed was Rimsky .
 The master wept muttered , snatched in the air with something hands and muttered : 'Give 'Give me give my my head , ... back me ...
 apartment Take , paintings take , only head give me back ! '
 A messenger ran for a doctor .
 Bengalsky They tried lie on sofa in the room , but he began struggle violent , became . call ambulance .
 When unfortunate the master of was taken , Rimsky ran back to the stage and saw that that on it were taking place new wonders .
 Ah , yes , either then or a little earlier , the magician , together with his faded armchair , disappeared from stage and it must be said that the public absolutely it no took notice , carried the by extraordinary things unfolding on stage Fagott . And Fagott , having punished master of ceremonies , addressed the public thus : ` All righty , now that kicked , we let 's open a ladies shop ! '
 And all once the stage was covered with Persian carpets , appeared huge mirrors , the sides lit by greenish carpets tubes , and between the mirrors floor windows , and in them spectators the merrily astonished astonished saw various colours and cuts Parisian ladies dresses .
 that In some the windows , while in others appeared hundreds of ladies hats shoes , with feathers , and without feathers , with buckles , without , hundreds , black , yellow , leather , suede , with straps , with stones . Among shoes suede appeared perfume these mountains of handbags heaps silk of antelope , suede , lipstick , and among the whole cases of elongated gold elongated contain of lipstick .
 A devil knows where red-headed girl in a evening black dress respects - nice girl , had she not been smiling her by a queer scar on neck - appeared smiling by the windows proprietary smile .
 Fagott , grinning sweetly grinning sweetly , announced that that the firm perfectly perfectly gratis was offering exchange the old ladies dresses and shoes for Parisian models and Parisian shoes .
 The same he held added for handbags the handbags and other things .
 cat began scraping with hind paw , front while performed the gestures gestures appropriate to a doorman opening a door .
 The girl with hoarseness , though sweetly hoarseness rolling , , something quite comprehensible , but , judging by women 's the faces in the stalls , very tempting :
 'Gueriain 'Gueriain , Narcisse No . 5 , Mitsouko , Narcisse Noir , evening gowns dresses , cocktail dresses ...
 Fagott wriggled , the cat bowed , the girl opened the glass windows .
 'Welcome 'Welcome ! ' yelled Fagott . With no embarrassment or embarrassment ceremony ! '
 The audience was excited , but ventured on stage yet no one ventured .
 Finally Finally some brunette stood in the tenth row stalls and , smiling as and her she all same the give a , went and the side hoot stairs climbed on stage .
 'Bravo 'Bravo ! ' shouted Fagott . 'Greetings the first customer !
 Behemoth , a chair !
 Let 's start with the shoes , madame . '
 The brunette sat in the , and Fagott at once poured the in her a whole shoes heap rug .
 The brunette removed her right shoe , tried a lilac one , stamped the rug , examined the heel .
 They n't wo pinch ? pensively asked she .
 To this Fagott resentfully exclaimed : 'Come 'Come 'Come , come come ! ' and cat miaowed .
 ' I 'll take this pair , m'sieur , ' the said brunette with dignity , putting on the second shoe .
 The 's old red-headed shoes were tossed behind curtain , and there proceeded herself she , accompanied by the red-headed brunette girl and Fagott , who carrying on a hangers several fashionable dresses .
 cat bustled , helped and for greater importance hung his around neck tape .
 A minute later from behind came brunette in such a the curtain that the all stalls let out a gasp .
 The brave woman , who astonishingly prettier , , stopped at the mirror , shoulders , moved touched the hair on her nape and twisting , twisting tried peek her at back .
 The firm asks to you accept this as souvenir , said Fagott and offered the brunette open a case flacon with flacon .
 ` Merci , ` haughtily said brunette and went down the to stalls .
 As she walked , spectators jumped and touched the .
 And there here came breakthrough a clean , and from all sides to the stage marched women .
 Amid the general agitation of talk , chuckles and gasps , was heard man 's voice : ' I n't wo allow it ! ' and woman 's : ` Despot and philistine ! n't break my arm ! '
 Women disappeared behind the curtain , leaving there their curtain dresses and coming out in new .
 on stools with gilded stools sat stamping A whole row ladies , energetically stamping the carpet newly with shod legs feet .
 Fagott was on knees , working plodded a shoehorn ; cat , fainting under piles of shoes purses and the , plodded between the stools and ; the girl with disfigured the neck appeared , disappeared and and reached the where entirely started rattling in French , and surprisingly , her from half understood the women , even those who not did know single a French word .
 General amazement was aroused a man edging his on-stage on-stage .
 He announced , that his wife flu had the flu and he therefore asked sent to her something through him .
 As proof that he was indeed married , the citizen was prepared to show passport .
 The announcement solicitous husband was met with guffaws . Fagott shouted that believed him , like own self , even without the passport , and handed the citizen two pairs silk lipstick stockings , for his added a lipstick of .
 Late-coming women tore on to the stage , and off stage came pouring pouring in ball gowns , pyjamas with dragons , sober formal outfits , outfits little hats tipped over one eyebrow .
 Then Fagott announced , that owing the the hour shop would close until the next evening in exactly one minute , and unbelievable scramble arose on-stage on-stage .
 Women hastily without them grabbed shoes .
 One like storm , burst behind the curtain , got took there dress dressing-gown and possession first thing that came silk silk huge bouquets a and besides managed to pick up two cases perfume perfume .
 Exactly a minute later rang out a pistol shot , the disappeared dropped , the melted windows carpet and mirrors , carpet melted into air , as did the curtain .
 Last to disappear was the high mountain of old dresses and shoes , and the stage was again severe , empty and bare .
 And it here into affair a new character .
 A pleasant pleasant sonorous and very pleasant sonorous insistent baritone came from no box 2 : 'All 'All the same it is desirable , citizen artiste , that you without expose to spectators the technique your tricks , especially especially the trick with the paper money .
 It desirable also is desirable the master of to the stage .
 The fate his are spectators . '
 The baritone belonged to none other , than 's guest that evening honour Arkady Apollonovich Sempleyarov , chairman of baritone the Acoustics Commission the Moscow theatres .
 Arkady Apollonovich was his in box with two ladies : the , expensively and fashionably , the other one and young pretty , dressed simpler way .
 first The , as soon was discovered during drawing of the the report , was 's wife Arkady Apollonovich , and second distant promising was relation his , promising a debutante , who come from Saratov and was living in apartment of Arkady Apollonovich and his wife .
 ' Pardone ! replied Fagott . I sorry 's , here expose , all clear . '
 'No 'No excuse , excuse me !
 The exposure is necessary .
 Without it your brilliant numbers will leave painful a impression .
 The spectators mass demands an explanation . '
 'The 'The spectators mass spectators , ` interrupted impudent Sempleyarov impudent clown , ` does anything n't saying .
 But , in consideration of your most esteemed desire , Arkady Apollonovich , I , so be it - will perform an exposure .
 But to that will allow me more one tiny number ? '
 'Why 'Why not ? patronizingly replied Arkady Apollonovich . 'But 'But an exposure . '
 'Very 'Very well , , very well .
 And so , allow me me to ask , where you were last evening , Arkady Apollonovich ? '
 At this inappropriate and even perhaps boorish question countenance Arkady Apollonovich changed , and quite drastically changed .
 ` Arkady Apollonovich Last evening was at a meeting of the Commission , `` very haughtily declared 's wife Arkady Apollonovich , `` but I n't do understand what got that has with magic . '
 'Ouee 'Ouee , madame ! ' Fagott . 'Naturally 'Naturally you n't do understand .
 for , the meeting you are totally deluded .
 After driving to the said meeting , , which scheduled for last not was , Arkady Apollonovich dismissed his chauffeur at building the Acoustics Commission on Clean Yelokhovskaya Ponds ( the whole theatre became hushed ) , he by chauffeur bus went to Yelokhovskaya Street to visit an actress the itinerant regional theatre Militsa Andreevna Pokobatko and spent with whom some four hours .
 'Aie 'Aie ! ' cried painfully cried someone in the total silence .
 's young 's relation Arkady Apollonovich suddenly broke into a low and terrible laugh .
 'It 'It 's clear ! exclaimed she . 'And 'And I long 've suspected it .
 Now I see see why that giftless thing got role of Louisa ! ''
 And , suddenly swinging short and her fat violet umbrella , she struck Arkady Apollonovich on the head .
 scoundrelly Fagott , the alias Koroviev , was shouting :
 'Here 'Here is , honourable citizens , one of case the exposure so importunately insisted on Arkady Apollonovich ! '
 'How 'How dare touch you , vile creature Arkady Apollonovich ? ' threateningly asked 's wife Arkady Apollonovich , rising in the box to all her gigantic height .
 second A brief satanic laughter seized young relation .
 'Who 'Who else , ' answered she , guffawing , 'if 'if me should dare touch him ! ' And the second time there came the dry crackling the umbrella bouncing off head of Arkady Apollonovich .
 'Police 'Police !
 Seize her ! ' such a terrible voice shouted 's wife Sempleyarov that many went hearts cold .
 And here also the cat leaped out to the footlights and suddenly barked in all the theatre a human voice : The seance is over !
 Maestro ! Hack out a march ! '
 The half-crazed conductor the , unaware unaware his he of what doing , waved baton , and orchestra not play strike , or even bang , or even did , but precisely , in loathsome expression cat , hacked out some unheard-of incredible an brashness march .
 For a moment there was illusion heard cafe-chantant once time , under southern stars , in a cafe-chantant , barely intelligible half-blind , , but half-blind rollicking words this cafe-chantant march :
 His Excellency reached barnyard He took under his patronage Three young girls ! ! !
 Or maybe maybe not were the these words , but were others to the same music , extremely indecent ones .
 is the not That , important thing is that in Babel the after all this broke something loose , Variety .
 to Sempleyarov 's box went running The , barriers were bursts guffawing , were infernal bursts infernal guffawing and furious shouts clash , drowned golden cymbals the orchestra .
 And one see could that stage suddenly was empty and that the Fagott , well as the hoodwinker tom-cat Behemoth , melted into air , vanished , as earlier had vanished magician in armchair with faded upholstery .
 And so , the unknown man shook at Ivan his finger and whispered : 'Shhh 'Shhh ! ... '
 Ivan lowered legs from the bed and peered .
 from balcony Cautiously looking was into the room a clean-shaven , clean-shaven dark-haired , with a sharp anxious nose , anxious a eyes , and hanging down on wisp forehead man approximately thirty-eight thirty-eight .
 Having made that Ivan alone and , the mysterious visitor took and stepped into the room .
 Here saw Ivan that that the man was dressed a patient . He was wearing underwear , slippers on bare feet and a his shoulders thrown brown dressing-gown .
 The visitor winked at Ivan , hid in pocket bunch a of keys , in inquired whisper : 'May 'May I sit ? ' - and receiving receiving affirmative nod nod , placed himself in an armchair .
 'How 'How did you get here get ? ' obeying a dry shaken the shaken finger , asked whisper Ivan . 'Are balcony grilles locked locked ?
 The locked , ` the guest , ` but Praskovya Fyodorovna dearest , , alas , quite absent-minded person .
 I stole her month ago bunch a keys and so gained opportunity getting out to the common balcony , which runs the around entire floor , and so occasionally calling on a neighbour . '
 'If 'If you can get out the balcony , , you can escape .
 Or it high up ? ' was interested Ivan .
 'No 'No , ' firmly replied the guest , ' I not can escape from here not because , 's high up , but because because I to escape nowhere to .
 ' And after a pause he added : 'So 'So here , we sit .
 ` Here sit , ` replied Ivan , peering into 's brown and very very restless eyes the man .
 'Yes ... ' here the guest suddenly became alarmed , 'but 'but you , I hope not violent ?
 Because I , you know , not can stand noise , force , turmoil other things that .
 Especially Especially hateful are me people 's cries , whether cries rage suffering , , or else anything cries .
 Set ease me , tell me 're , you not violent ? '
 ` Yesterday in a restaurant I one type in mug socked confessed , ` courageously confessed the poet .
 `` 'Your grounds ? sternly the asked guest . `` , confess I No grounds , confess embarrassed , answered Ivan .
 'Outrageous , `` denounced guest Ivan and added : `` 'And besides besides , what yourself express : the mug socked in
 It is not known precisely whether has a man a mug or face .
 And , after know , well it be face . So , , fists ...
 No up , that you give , and for good . '
 Having reprimanded thus reprimanded Ivan , the guest inquired : 'Your 'Your profession ? '
 'Poet 'Poet , ' for some reluctantly confessed Ivan .
 The visitor became upset .
 'Ah 'Ah , just my luck ! exclaimed he , , but at once reconsidered , reconsidered apologized and apologized asked : 'And 'And what is your name ?
 'Homeless 'Homeless . '
 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh ... said guest , wincing .
 'What 'What , you my poetry dislike ? ' with curiosity asked Ivan .
 ' I terribly dislike it . '
 'And 'And you what read . '
 ' any I of your poetry never read ! ' nervously exclaimed visitor .
 ' Then how can you say that ?
 'Well 'Well , what it the ' replied guest . 'As 'As if I others n't have read ? ?
 Or ... maybe 's some miracle ?
 Very well , I 'm ready take on faith .
 Is good your yourself poetry You tell me yourself ?
 'Monstrous 'Monstrous ! ' suddenly boldly and frankly spoke Ivan .
 'Do 'Do n't write any more ! ' the asked visitor beseechingly .
 ' I promise and I swear ! ' solemnly said Ivan .
 The oath was sealed handshake , and here the corridor were a soft footsteps and voices heard .
 'Shh 'Shh whispered the guest and , jumping out to the balcony , closed behind him the grille .
 peeked Praskovya Fyodorovna , peeked asked how Ivan he feeling and wished whether he to sleep in the dark or with a light .
 Ivan asked her light to leave the , and Praskovya Fyodorovna withdrew , wishing patient a good night .
 And when everything was quiet , back again came the guest .
 He in whisper informed Ivan that that in 119 room there was arrival new some - fat man with purple physiognomy , who kept muttering something about currency in the ventilation and swearing that their on Sadovaya were living in unclean powers .
 `` Pushkin curses down and keeps shouting : 'He Pushkin Kurolesov , encore , encore ! '' `` the said guest , twitching nervously twitching nervously .
 Having calmed , he sat down , said : 'Anyway 'Anyway 'Anyway , God help him , ' and continued his conversation with Ivan : 'So 'So , how did you wind up here ? '
 'On 'On account of Pontius Pilate , glum casting a the floor , replied Ivan .
 'What 'What ? ! ' forgetting caution , cried clapped guest and own his clapped hand over . A staggering coincidence !
 I beg you , beg you , me !
 for some Feeling trust in the unknown man , Ivan , first falteringly and timorously , then then boldly , began tell about the previous 's story at Patriarch 's the Ponds .
 Yes , grateful listener acquired Ivan Nikolaevich in person the mysterious stealer of keys !
 The guest not did Ivan for madman , he showed great interest in what being told and as developed the he story , finally , became ecstatic ecstatic . he Time and again interrupted Ivan with exclamations : 'Well 'Well well , on ! go , go , I beg you !
 Only Only , in name all holy , n't do leave out anything !
 Ivan nothing case any left , him it was that easier to tell it , and gradually he reached reached the moment , when Pontius Pilate in a white mantle with blood-red lining came to the balcony .
 Then the visitor prayerfully put hands and whispered : 'Oh 'Oh , how I guessed !
 How it I all guessed ! '
 the description terrible death Berlioz listener accompanied with enigmatic remark , while eyes flashed his flashed with an spite :
 ' I only regret that it instead this Berlioz n't was critic the Latunsky or writer Mstislav Lavrovich ' and frenziedly , but frenziedly soundlessly he cried : 'Go 'Go on ! !
 The cat , handing money to the , exceedingly amused the guest , and he choked with quiet the laughter watching as excited success of his narration Ivan quietly hopped on bent legs , portraying the cat holding the next whiskers .
 ` And so , growing telling about the events at Griboedov , sad and melancholy Ivan concluded , ` I up wound here .
 The guest sympathetically placed a hand on shoulder the poor poet and spoke thus :
 'Unlucky 'Unlucky poet !
 But you yourself , dear heart , all are blame .
 You ought have behaved behaved with him so casually and even impertinently .
 So you paid for it .
 And you must still say thank you that you got off comparatively cheaply . '
 'But 'But who is he , finally , ? in his fists shaking fists agitation , ' asked Ivan .
 The guest peered at Ivan and answered with question :
 ` You not 're going get to upset ?
 We all here 're unreliable ...
 calling the doctor , injections , or other fuss n't be ?
 'No 'No , no ! 'Tell exclaimed Ivan . 'Tell me , who he is ? '
 `` 'Very well , replied visitor and weightily and weightily distinctly said : `` Yesterday at Patriarch 's the Ponds you met Satan .
 Ivan not did , as he had promised , but was even greatly astounded .
 'That n't 'That be !
 He n't exist '
 ` Good heavens ! Anyone , but not might you that say .
 You were one apparently of first his victims .
 You sitting , as you yourself understand , in psychiatric clinic , yet you keep saying , does he exist .
 Really , it 's strange ! '
 Thrown off , Ivan fell silent .
 'As 'As soon as you started him describing , went guest , ' I to began realize that who you yesterday had pleasure talking with .
 And , really , I 'm surprised Berlioz !
 Now you , of course , person a virginal , ` here the guest again apologized , ` but that one , from what I about him heard , 've at least all something had read !
 first very things this professor dispelled all my doubts .
 him fail n't to recognize , my friend !
 Though but you ... again I 'm apologize , , I not 'm mistaken , you man ignorant ? '
 'Indisputably 'Indisputably , ' the agreed unrecognizable Ivan .
 'Well 'Well , so ... even face , as you described it ... different eyes eyebrows , eyebrows !
 Forgive me , perhaps Forgive , however 've , you even opera the Faust never ?
 Ivan terribly terribly became embarrassed and his face , something began mumbling about some trip to sanatorium to Yalta ... ...
 'Well 'Well , so , so ... hardly surprising !
 But Berlioz , I repeat , me astounds ...
 He 's man not only a well-read but but also very shrewd .
 Though in defence his I must say that that , of course , Woland capable pulling the eyes man is . '
 'What 'What ? ! ' in his turn cried out Ivan .
 'Hush 'Hush !
 Ivan with roundly slapped himself roundly forehead the palm and rasped :
 ' I see , I see .
 He the letter `` W '' had on his visiting card .
 Ai-yai-yai , what thing ! ' He lapsed some time a bewildered , peering into the moon floating outside the grille , and then spoke : 'So 'So he that means actually have might been at Pontius Pilate ?
 was He then born ?
 And me madman call ! ' Ivan added Ivan , indignantly pointing to the door .
 A bitter wrinkle wrinkle appeared truth on lips the guest 's . .
 the And guest turned his face towards luminary racing through a nocturnal luminary cloud .
 'You are 'You and I madmen , that madmen denying !
 You see , he you you shocked had and unhinged came unhinged - , since you evidently prepared for it the ground .
 But what what you describe undoubtedly took in undoubtedly place reality .
 But it so 's extraordinary that even Stravinsky , a genius psychiatrist , you , of course , not did believe .
 he examine you ? '
 ( Ivan nodded . )
 'Your interlocutor breakfast was at Pilate , and had breakfast with 's Kant , and now he 's visiting Moscow . '
 'But 'But 'll he here devil be knows what !
 Ought n't him we catch ? ' definitively definitively , though without still raised head in new Ivan the former , yet not definitively quashed Ivan .
 'You 'You already tried advise , and will for you . ironically replied guest the others either advise to try n't .
 And he , , something will assured be !
 Ah , ah !
 But you annoying that who was met him you and and not I .
 Though all and the coals burned gone ashes , still , I swear , for that meeting I give 'd 's bunch bunch keys Praskovya Fyodorovna , , for I nothing else give .
 I destitute .
 'But 'But what him you need for ? '
 The guest long paused twitched and twitched , but finally spoke :
 ` You see , it such a strange story , I here 'm sitting for the same - reason you , namely on account of Pontius Pilate . Here the guest fearfully looked around and said : ` The thing is that year a ago I wrote about Pilate novel .
 'You 'You a writer ? ' with interest the asked poet .
 The guest darkened face and he threatened Ivan with fist , then said :
 ` I a master . ` He grew stern stern and took from the pocket dressing-gown completely a greasy greasy black cap with on it yellow silk the letter 'M 'M ' .
 He put on this cap and showed himself to Ivan in profile and full face , to prove that that he was master .
 ` She with own hands sewed it me , ` mysteriously added he .
 'And 'And what is your name ? '
 ` I have a name , with gloomy disdain answered strange guest . ` I I renounced renounced it , as generally everything in life .
 Let 's forget it . '
 ' Then me least tell about novel , delicately asked Ivan .
 'If please sir . life My , it must be said , not very ordinary course , began guest .
 ... A historian by education , he had until two years ago ago worked at one of the Moscow museums , and besides that also , had done translations .
 'From 'From what languages ? ' curiously interrupted Ivan .
 ' I know my five languages besides besides own , replied guest , 'English 'English , French , German , Latin and Greek .
 Well , also I read Italian a . '
 'Oh 'Oh , my ! ' whispered enviously whispered Ivan .
 The lived historian solitarily , no had anywhere family anywhere and almost no acquaintances in Moscow .
 And , just think , one day won a hundred thousand roubles .
 'Imagine 'Imagine my my astonishment , ' whispered guest in black , 'when 'when I put hand in the laundry dirty and whispered behold , it the same number had as in the newspaper .
 A state bond , explained he , 'they me at the museum gave .
 Having won hundred thousand , 's mysterious guest Ivan acted thus : bought books , gave up his room on Myasnitskaya ... ...
 'Ohh 'Ohh , that accursed hole ! growled .
 ... and rented from builder in a lane near Arbat . , ! whispered and that age , was the two rented rooms in basement little house in garden . at museum He and began writing a novel about Pontius Pilate .
 ` A , ` completely private a apartment hall , plus in it a sink with for some special underscored he , 'little just windows level with the paved walk leading from the gate .
 Opposite , only four steps fence , near the fence , lilacs , linden and maple .
 Ah , ah , ah !
 In winter I very seldom was saw through window someone black feet and heard crunching the under them .
 And in stove a my eternally was blazing fire !
 But suddenly the came spring , and through dim lilac glass saw I first bushes green , then dressing in lilac bushes themselves .
 And it then , last spring , something happened far more delightful than getting a hundred thousand roubles . And that , you agree , a huge sum of money ! '
 That 's true , the acknowledged attentively listening Ivan .
 ' I opened windows and sat in second , quite minuscule minuscule room The guest began measuring arms ! the sofa , and opposite a another sofa , between them table , and on it a beautiful night lamp , window nearer books and here a small writing table , and in first the room a huge room , one hundred fifty feet books , books and the stove .
 Ah , what I had furnishings !
 The extraordinary the lilacs !
 And head my was getting light with fatigue , and Pilate was flying to the end ... '
 'White 'White mantle , red ! I understand ! ' exclaimed Ivan .
 'Precisely 'Precisely so !
 Pilate was flying to the end , to the end , and I already knew that that the last words the novel would be : ... the fifth procurator of Judea , the equestrian Pontius Pilate '' .
 Well , naturally , I used out go walk .
 A hundred thousand is a huge sum , and I had an excellent suit .
 Or I 'd go and have dinner in some cheap restaurant .
 on the Arbat was a wonderful restaurant , n't I know whether exists whether it now . Here eyes the wide opened , and he went whispering , gazing at the moon : 'She 'She was carrying in hand repulsive alarming , alarming yellow flowers .
 Devil they knows , what they 're called , but they first for reason 're to appear in Moscow .
 And these flowers clearly stood out against her black spring coat .
 She was carrying yellow flowers !
 Not nice colour .
 She turned down from Tverskaya a lane and then looked back .
 Well , Tverskaya you know !
 along were walking Thousands people , but I can you , that saw she me alone and looked not really alarmed , but even as in pain .
 And I was struck not so by her beauty , as by an such one no extraordinary loneliness in her eyes !
 Obeying this yellow sign , I also turned the lane and followed down her .
 We walked along crooked , boring lane silently , I on one side , the she on other . And not was , imagine , in the lane a soul .
 I was suffering , because it I seemed was that to her necessary speak , and worried that I n't utter a single word , and she would leave , and I never her again see .
 And , imagine , suddenly began speak she : ' `` Do you like my flowers ?
 ' I clearly remember the sound her voice , low husky slightly , , and , as it stupid , it seemed that echo resounded bounced in the lane and bounced off dirty yellow wall .
 I quickly crossed to her side and , coming up to her , answered : ' '' No !
 'She looked at me in surprise , and I suddenly , and quite unexpectedly , understood that that my I all life loved precisely this woman !
 Quite a thing , eh ?
 you Of course , I mad ? '
 ' I n't say exclaimed , ' exclaimed Ivan and added : ' I beg you , go on ! '
 And the guest continued . 'Yes 'Yes , she looked at me in surprise , and then , having looked , asked thus : ' '' You generally n't do like flowers ? ''
 in voice her was to me seemed there hostility .
 I was walking beside her beside , trying to keep in step , and , to surprise constraint my , did not did feel constraint .
 `` No , I like flowers , but not this , `` said I .
 ' , Which ?
 ' '' I roses like . ''
 'Then I regretted having it said , because because she guiltily smiled and threw the flowers into the gutter .
 Slightly loss , I nevertheless picked up them them and gave her , but she , with , pushed away the flowers , and I carried them in hand .
 'So walked silently for some time , until she took my from hand the flowers and threw them to pavement , then put her own hand in black glove with a cuff under my , and we walked on . '
 'Go 'Go , said Ivan , 'and 'and n't please leave out please anything ! '
 'Go 'Go on ? ' repeated the visitor . 'Why 'Why , went you can for yourself guess . '
 ` He suddenly wiped an unexpected tear his right with sleeve and continued : ` Love leaped in front of us like out of nowhere leaping murderer in alley , and struck us once both .
 As strikes lightning , as strikes a Finnish knife !
 She was , by way , insisted afterwards that it n't so , that loved we , of course , each other for , long time , never without knowing each other , seen , and that she was living with different man , I then ... ... with that , as her ...
 'With 'With whom ? ' asked Homeless .
 With that ... well ... with ... replied the guest , snapping fingers .
 'You 'You were married ? '
 'Why yes , , yes that why I 'm snapping ... With that ... Varenka Manechka ... ... no , Varenka ... striped striped dress ... ... museum ... Anyhow , I n't do remember .
 so 'Well she said , with yellow flowers in hand she went out that day so that I last her find at , and that if had it n't happened , she poisoned herself , because life her was empty .
 'Yes , love struck us instantly 'Yes .
 I it knew that same day later , , an hour when we ourselves found , without having noticed city , by Kremlin wall on embankment .
 We talked as if parted the day before , as if we known each other for many years .
 the next day We arranged to meet the same place on the Moscow River , and we .
 The May sun shone us .
 And soon , soon became this woman my , secret wife .
 'She used come to me every afternoon , but waiting for her I would begin in morning .
 This expressed itself in the moving of on the table objects .
 before Ten minutes I sit down by the window and begin to listen , the decrepit gate . And how curious : before meeting my with her to our yard few people came - simply more , no one no came - but now me it seemed that the whole city came flocking there .
 'Bang goes A the gate , bang goes my heart , and , imagine , the level 's my face behind inevitably 's somebody 's dirty boots . knife-grinder .
 Now , who needs knife-grinder in our house ?
 To sharpen ?
 What knives ?
 'She come the through gate times once , but heart before that my would no less than ten , I not lying .
 And then , when came her her hour and the hands showed noon , it even even n't would stop pounding , until without tapping , almost almost noiselessly , would come with shoes their black suede bows bows , held by steel buckles .
 'Sometimes she mischievous and pausing at second the window , tapping toe with glass .
 I That same instant be at the window shoe , but the , black shoe silk the blocking light gone gone - I her open .
 No one No knew of our liaison , of that I you assure , though it never never happens .
 n't did know Her husband , n't her know acquaintances .
 In old the house where I had that basement , people knew , of course , they saw that visited me some n't woman , but name her did n't they know . '
 ` But who she is ? ` asked Ivan , in the highest degree intrigued this love by story .
 The guest made gesture signifying that that he to anyone that never tell , and went his a story .
 Ivan learned learned that master and the unknown woman loved each other so deeply that they became completely inseparable .
 Ivan could picture himself clearly the two rooms in the basement the house , where was always twilight the because of lilacs and fence . The furniture , bureau , on it clock which struck every half hour , and books , , books from the sooty to the sooty floor , and the stove .
 Ivan learned that that guest his and his secret wife from the first days their liaison had come to the conclusion , that had thrown them at corner of Tverskaya and Tverskaya lane itself fate and that been created they each for other for all time .
 Ivan learned from the 's story guest 's how how would spend day the lovers .
 She would come , and first thing put on an apron , and in the narrow front where stood that same sink of which was proud the some reason poor patient , on wooden hall table would light the kerosene , prepare lunch , and set out it in first the room on oval the table .
 When came May storms storms and past near-sighted windows noisily rushed through gateway the water , threatening flood last gateway refuge , the lovers would light the stove and bake in it potatoes .
 from potatoes rose Steam , black the potato skins dirtied their fingers .
 the basement Laughter came Laughter , the trees in the garden shed after rain broken twigs , white clusters .
 When the ended storms and came sultry summer , in the vase appeared long-awaited both long-awaited roses .
 The man who called himself a master worked , and she after sewing in balcony fingers hair slender with sharply filed fingers nails , whispered reread what written , and rereading would that very same cap .
 Sometimes she crouched down the lower shelves or crouched stood by by the upper ones and wiped hundreds of dusty cloth spines .
 She she foretold fame , she foretold urged him him and then began call a master .
 She waited for the promised already last words about the fifth procurator of Judea , aloud in impatiently repeated certain phrases phrases she liked , and said that that in this was novel her life .
 It was finished in August month of , was given to some unknown typist , and she typed it in five copies .
 And finally the came hour when had leave his secret refuge and go into life .
 ` And I went into life holding it in hands , and then my my life ended whispered , ' drooped master and drooped head , and for nodded woeful black the cap with yellow letter 'M 'M ' . He nodded a continued his story , but it became somewhat incoherent , one could understand only that then 's guest Ivan had befallen some catastrophe .
 'For I first found in the world of literature , but now , when it over clear and ruin my , I recall whispered it with horror ! ' whispered solemnly whispered master and raised his hand .
 'Yes 'Yes , he greatly astounded me , ah , how astounded ! '
 'Who 'Who ? ' barely audibly whispered Ivan , fearing to interrupt the agitated narrator .
 'Why the editor , I tell you , editor !
 Yes , he read right . He looked looked at me as , if I cheek had swollen sidelong a , into the corner and even sidelong embarrassment tittered .
 He needlessly needlessly crumpled the manuscript and grunted .
 The questions he asked seemed me crazy .
 Saving nothing about the essence of novel , he asked me , who I was and where I came writing , long how and why me one no had been heard before , and even asked in my opinion opinion a totally idiotic question : who given me had the writing a novel on such a strange theme ?
 Finally him and I got asked directly would whether he publish the novel or not .
 Here he squirming mumbled , started something squirming mumbled and declared that that own decide the question he not could , that with my work had acquaint themselves other members the editorial board - , namely critics Latunsky and Ariman , and the writer Mstislav Lavrovich . He asked me to come in two weeks .
 I came in two weeks and was received some by girl whose were crossed towards nose from constant lying eyes . '
 That 's Lapshennikova , the secretary editorial . smirk said Ivan well He knew the world so wrathfully described by his guest .
 ` Maybe snapped , ` so from her I got my novel , already quite greasy greasy and dishevelled .
 Trying avoid not to looking the eye in me , Lapshennikova told me , that the publisher was provided with material for two years ahead and therefore the question of printing my novel , as she put it , did arise .
 ` What I remember after that ? ` muttered master , rubbing temple , 'Yes , red strewn petals across tide page and also the eyes my of friend . .
 Yes , those eyes I remember . '
 The story Ivan 's of guest was becoming more confused , more filled all sorts of reticences .
 He said something about slanting rain , and despair in the refuge , about having gone elsewhere .
 He exclaimed whisper that that he her for pushing him to fight oh not blame - oh , did blame her !
 ' I , remember that accursed insert the sheet in newspaper , muttered guest , drawing two fingers fingers in the air a newspaper sheet , and Ivan guessed from further confused phrases that some other editor printed a large excerpt from novel one the who called himself a master .
 According to him , had passed no more than two days since as in another newspaper published article article by critic Ahriman Ariman , which called The Enemy Under the Wing Editor , in which stated warned that that Ivanov 's guest , taking advantage carelessness sundry and and ignorance editor Ariman , , made attempt attempted to smuggle foist into print it print apology an apology Jesus Jesus Christ .
 'Ah 'Ah , I remember , I remember ! ' cried out Ivan .
 'But 'But I forgotten forgotten your name ! '
 'Let 'Let leave , I repeat it my name , it no exists , replied guest .
 'That 'That not point .
 Two later days in another newspaper over the signature of Mstislav Lavrovich , appeared another article , in which author its recommended striking , and hard striking , at Pilatism and the icon-dauber who who ventured to foist ( again that accursed word ! ) it into print .
 'Dumbfounded by this word 'Dumbfounded unheard-of Pilatism '' , I opened a third newspaper .
 There were two articles , one `` Latunsky , the other `` signed with the initials N.E N.E N.E . I assure you , , works of Ariman and Lavrovich could be counted jokes compared compared with what wrote Latunsky .
 Suffice it to say that was article Latunsky A Militant Old Believer .
 I so got carried away reading the article about myself that n't notice how she ( door I forgotten lock the ) came stood before me with wet a umbrella in hand and wet newspapers .
 eyes her Her flashed fire , hands flashed trembling were cold .
 First she rushed me kiss , then , in hoarse voice and pounding fist with table , she said would she poison Latunsky . '
 Ivan somewhat embarrassedly grunted , but nothing nothing said .
 'Joyless autumn 'Joyless days .
 novel was The written , there do was nothing else , and we both lived by sitting on rug on floor by the stove and looking at fire .
 However , now we more parted more than before .
 She began to for go walk . And to me happened originality , as often happened in my life life ... I suddenly got a friend .
 Yes , yes , imagine , I in general not inclined to get along with people , have a damn strangeness : I get along with people tight , distrustful , suspicious .
 And - imagine , at time outwardly the the someone unforeseen , unexpected and outwardly devil knows looks what he , and him of I most all like .
 So at that accursed time the opened gate our garden , still remember , was such pleasant , day . She n't was home . And the gate entered man . He went into house on n't some business to my builder , then went to the kindergarten and somehow very quickly made acquaintance with me acquaintance .
 introduced himself He me a journalist .
 I liked him before , imagine that I him still sometimes think and miss about it . . Further , more , he began to come to me .
 I found out that he was cramped , that lived next to me about in the same apartment , but that he cramped there , and so on .
 Somehow Somehow not he call .
 My wife n't to the extreme .
 But I stood up for him .
 She said : `` Do , as you like , but I tell you that this man makes a on me repulsive impression repulsive .
 I laughed .
 Yes , but what , in fact , him me attracted to ?
 The fact is that a person without a surprise inside , in his box , uninteresting .
 such a surprise in his box Aloisy ( yes , I forgot to say that my 's new acquaintance name was Aloisy Mogarych ) had .
 Indeed , nowhere before Indeed I I have met and am sure that nowhere meet man such intelligence as possessed Aloisy .
 If I not did understand the meaning some note in newspaper , Aloisy explained me it literally in one minute , and it clear was clear that explanation this him cost absolutely nothing .
 It the same with life phenomena and questions .
 But this was not .
 conquered me Aloisy his passion for literature .
 He not did calm he until begged me to read him my novel whole from cover to cover , and about the novel he spoke very flatteringly , but with amazing accuracy , as if present the at time , told all remarks of the editor the regarding this novel .
 He hit hundred times hundred times .
 In addition , he was exactly explained to me , and I guessed guessed that it unmistakable , why my novel not could be published .
 He bluntly said bluntly : head such and such go not can ...
 forebodings The articles not Stravinsky appeared cease .
 the first of them I laughed .
 But the more them that appeared , the more changed my attitude towards them .
 second stage was The astonishment .
 Some rare insecurity falsity and insecurity sensed be literally in every line of these articles , despite despite their threatening and confident tone .
 I had feeling , and I n't could from it get rid , that the authors of these articles saying not what they wanted to say , and that their rage sprang precisely precisely that .
 And then , imagine , came a third stage fear .
 No understand , not fear of these articles , you , but fear of other totally unrelated to them or to novel things .
 Thus , for instance , I began be afraid the dark .
 In short , stage of mental illness .
 It seemed me stealing octopus asleep as I my that immediately , especially its was falling , was some octopus with very cold and pliant tentacles .
 And sleep I had with the light on .
 'My beloved very changed much ( about octopus I her of course , never told , but she could see that with me something ) , thinner and paler , became laughing and asking me to forgive her for , she advised me to an excerpt .
 She said should I drop everything , go to south to Black Sea , and spend on the trip all that left of the hundred thousand .
 'She was very insistent , and I I to to avoid argument ( something 'd told me was that not to go to Black the Sea ) , promised her it do one those days .
 But she said would she herself buy me the ticket .
 Then I took out all my money - that is , about ten thousand roubles - and gave it her .
 `` Why so much ? `` was surprised she .
 ' I said something or other about being of thieves and asked her to keep the money until my departure .
 She took it , put in purse , began kissing me and saying that her easier for would die than leave alone me in such a state , but that she expected , that she to necessity necessity , that come the next day .
 She begged afraid me not be afraid anything .
 'This was at dusk , in mid-October mid-October .
 And she left . I lay down on sofa and fell without turning on the light .
 was awakened I by the feeling that the was there .
 Groping in the dark light , I barely managed to turn the .
 My pocket watch showed two in morning .
 I was went falling ill , and woke up sick . I It suddenly seemed that the autumn darkness darkness would push the glass and pour into the room and I would drown in it , as in ink .
 I got man a longer no in control of himself .
 I cried out , to me came thought of running to someone , even if my was landlord upstairs .
 I struggled with myself like a madman . I had enough strength to get to the stove and start in it fire . When the crackle and the rattled , I to seemed slightly feel better .
 I dashed to the front room there light , turned found a bottle of white wine , uncorked it and began drinking from the bottle .
 This the fear blunted somewhat - enough to at least - me I running to landlord and went to stove .
 I opened the door , so that the heat began burn my face and hands , and whispered : ' `` Guess Guess that me has befallen trouble ... Come , come , come !
 'But no one no came .
 in the stove roared fire , the windows lashed rain .
 Then the thing happened final .
 I took from the desk drawer the heavy manuscript notebooks novel and the notebooks and started them burning .
 This terribly hard to was do , because written-on paper burns reluctantly .
 Breaking fingernails , I tore the notebooks , stuck vertically them between logs and poker ruffled the pages .
 the ashes At times got me , choking the flames , but I struggled with them , and the novel , stubbornly resisting perishing , nevertheless nevertheless was perishing .
 Familiar words before me , the climbed steadily steadily up the pages , but words still flashed through it . They vanish only when , when the paper turned black and I poker finished them .
 Just then then the window someone began scratching quietly .
 My heart leaped , and I having stuffed the last notebook into fire , rushed open the .
 Brick steps led from the to basement the yard . Stumbling , I ran up to it and quietly asked : ' `` Who 's there ?
 'And voice , her voice , answered that : 'It 's me ... n't do remember how I I managed with the chain and hook .
 As soon as she stepped inside , she clung to me , all wet , her cheeks and uncurled her hair trembling .
 I could utter the only word :
 `` You ... ... you ? `` and voice broke , and we ran downstairs downstairs .
 She freed herself in front overcoat the , and we quickly went into first hall the room .
 With cry , she bare hands pulled threw out of the stove to floor the of what there was , a that caught the from below .
 Smoke filled the room once .
 I with feet stamped fire , and she collapsed the on sofa and wept irrepressibly and convulsively .
 'When she calmed down , I said : ' `` I came hate this novel , and I 'm afraid .
 I ill Frightened . 'm Frightened .
 'She stood up and said :
 `` God , how you sick are .
 is Why it , why why ?
 But I 'll save you . I'11 I'11 save you .
 What is this all ? ''
 I saw eyes her swollen with smoke and weeping forehead , felt her cold hands stroke my forehead .
 `` I 'll 'll cure you , 'll cure you , was murmuring she , murmuring clutching my shoulders shoulders . `` You 'll restore it .
 Why , , why I n't did keep a n't copy ? ''
 'She bared with teeth rage , something else she said inarticulately .
 Then , compressing compressing lips , she began to compressing collect and smooth out burnt-edged the pages .
 It was some chapter from middle of the novel , n't I remember which .
 She neatly stacked the pages , wrapped them them in ribbon , tied ribbon .
 All her actions showed , that she was full determination and that she regained herself .
 She asked for wine and , drunk , more calmly :
 `` This is how one pays for lying , `` said she , `` and more I n't do want lie .
 I stay 'd with you right now , but I not 'd rather it do it that way .
 I n't do want his ever remain in memory that I ran away from him the night .
 He never done me never any wrong ...
 He was summoned unexpectedly , at the factory a fire .
 But he be back soon .
 I talk with him tomorrow morning , I tell that I love another man and for ever come back to him you .
 Answer me . you do maybe maybe n't want that ?
 `` Poor dear , poor dear , `` said to I her . `` I n't to you it do .
 for me Things n't well , and I n't do want to you perish with me . ''
 `` Is the reason ? `` asked she and brought her eyes to mine .
 '' The one .
 'She terribly became animated , , dung put to me around her my arms neck and she said : ' `` I 'm perishing with perishing you .
 In the morning I 'll be here . ''
 'And so the , last thing I remember from my life is a strip light from my front hall , and in that strip of light an uncurled uncurled , her beret and her filled with determination eyes .
 I also remember the black silhouette in the outside doorway and the white package .
 `` I see 'd you , but my 's beyond strength to come alone back . I afraid .
 `` n't be afraid .
 Bear it a few hours .
 Tomorrow morning I 'll be here . ''
 ` ... Those Those were her last words in my life life ...
 ... Shh ! ` suddenly himself interrupted patient and raised a finger . a restless moonlit night .
 He disappeared to the balcony .
 Ivan heard roll wheels the down corridor , someone sobbed or sobbed cried out weakly .
 When everything grew still , the guest came back and announced that that 120 room received occupant .
 been brought Someone , and asking given back he head .
 The two interlocutors fell silent anxiously anxiously , but , having calmed , down they returned to interrupted the story .
 The guest was opening his , but night indeed was restless one . voices the still were in corridor , and guest began speak Ivan Ivan into ear so softly , that what what he told was known to the poet only , from apart first the phrase : ' A quarter of an hour after after she she left me , my at window came ... What whispered patient into ear evidently very agitated him .
 Spasms passed over his face . in eyes his swam and flitted Fear and rage .
 The narrator pointed his hand somewhere the in direction the moon , which long since left the balcony .
 Only when when ceased to reach all sounds from outside the guest move away from Ivan and begin speak more loudly :
 'Yes 'Yes , so , in mid-January mid-January , at night , in the same coat buttons but with the torn off buttons , I was huddled with huddled cold in my little yard .
 Behind me were snowdrifts , the bushes lilac , and before me and below dimly lit , covered with shades my shades .
 That was all , them I I listened heard . but I see anything not could .
 stood there , I went out the to gate lane .
 in it A was blizzard .
 , dashing my under feet A dog frightened me , and I ran away from it to the other side .
 The cold and fear , the become my constant companion , were driving me to frenzy .
 go I had nowhere , and the simplest thing , of course , been would throw myself under tram-car on the street where where came out my lane .
 From off I could see those light-filled ice-covered , ice-covered boxes and hear their loathsome screeching screeching in frost .
 But , dear my neighbour , the thing was that fear possessed every cell of my I body . And just , as the dog , I was afraid of the tram-car . Yes , there than mine illness in this place is , I you
 ` But you have could let know her , said Ivan , sympathizing poor patient . ` 'Besides , she your money .
 of She it , of course did keep ? '
 'You 'You doubt it , of course that she kept .
 But you evidently n't understand me .
 Or rather , , I 've lost I once the ability describing things .
 I 'm However , that not very sorry , since since it I no have use for longer .
 Before her , ` the guest reverently looked out the darkness of the night , ` would lie letter from a madhouse .
 How one send letters such an address ? a mental patient ...
 You 're joking , my friend !
 No , Make her unhappy ? that I not capable of . '
 Ivan unable was to to this , but the silent Ivan sympathized , commiserated him .
 And the nodded from pain of his the memories head in black the cap and spoke thus : 'Poor 'Poor woman ...
 However , I have hopes that she forgotten me '
 'But 'But you may recover ... timidly said Ivan .
 ' I am incurable , calmly replied guest . 'When 'When Stravinsky says he bring back me to life , I him n't do n't believe .
 He is humane and simply wants comfort me .
 n't deny , I however , that I now 'm much better .
 Yes , so where I did leave off ?
 Frost ... , those flying trams ...
 I knew that that this clinic had been opened , and across entire city on set out the .
 Madness !
 Outside the city I probably frozen would , but me saved death chance .
 A broken down the truck driver , I came up to , it was miles some three beyond the , and to to my surprise pity , he took pity on me .
 The truck was coming here . And he took along me .
 I got away with frostbitten my toes left toes .
 But they that cured .
 And now the fourth month I here .
 And , you know , I it here bad not .
 One must make grandiose plans , dear neighbour , really !
 I for , instance , wanted to go all the globe .
 Well , out that it not going .
 I see only insignificant piece of that globe . I suppose suppose 's it not the very best there is on it , but , I repeat , it not so 's bad .
 Summer is coming to , the balcony twine the ivy . promises Praskovya Fyodorovna .
 The keys have broadened my possibilities possibilities .
 at 'll night be the moon .
 Ah , it 's gone !
 Freshness .
 It 's falling past midnight .
 Time go . '
 Tell me , what happened afterwards with Yeshua and Pilate asked Ivan . beg you , I I want know . '
 'Ah 'Ah no , , no , a painful trembling replied guest . ' I recall not can without recall my novel .
 And your acquaintance from Patriarch 's the Ponds do would it better than I .
 Thank you for the conversation .
 Goodbye ' .
 And before Ivan could collect senses , closed the grille with a quiet clang , and the guest vanished .
 His nerves , as they say , and Rimsky before finished drawing up the report fled to his office .
 He sat at desk and inflamed with eyes stared at lying before him the magic banknotes . wits The findirector were wits .
 A steady hum . The audience in streams poured from building the Variety into the street .
 extremely sharpened hearing policeman suddenly caught the sharpened distant policeman trill .
 That in itself That never never bodes anything pleasant .
 But when it was repeated and to it to assist joined was another , more authoritative and prolonged , and added a clearly audible guffawing , and even some hooting , the findirector once understood that that in street had happened else something scandalous and hooting vile .
 And that it , however wanted to wave away it , was closely connected with repulsive the sance presented by the black magician and his assistants .
 The findirector the not was mistaken .
 As soon as he cast glance out window the on to Sadovaya , face his twisted , and he not whisper , but whisper hissed : 'So I 'So I thought !
 In the bright glare of strongest street he saw on the sidewalk below a lady in a shift and bloomers violet . on head lady , True , was a hat and in hands an umbrella .
 surrounded The lady , who was down in state utter consternation , now crouching , now making to run off somewhere , was crowd , by produced the very guffawing , which fin-director sent down the spine shiver .
 Next to the lady was some citizen , flitting tear off his summer coat sleeve and in his agitation simply unable manage the sleeve , in which was stuck arm stuck .
 Shouts and roaring guffaws came yet from another place - namely the left entrance underwear - and turning that direction head , Grigory Grigory Danilovich saw a second lady , in pink underwear .
 She leaped from street to sidewalk , striving to hide in the hallway , but the audience blocked She way , and the poor victim own flightiness and passion for up , deceived by firm vile Fagott , dreamed only of one falling through the earth .
 A policeman made the unfortunate , drilling the air with , and after the policeman hastened some merry young men in whistle caps . they who produced the guffawing hooting and hooting .
 A skinny skinny cabby flew up to first and dashingly reined moustachioed bony broken-down woman nag . The moustached dashingly gleefully was grinning .
 Rimsky beat himself with fist the head fist , spat and leaped from the window .
 he For sat some time at desk listening to street .
 The whistling at various points reached highest pitch , then then began to subside .
 The scandal , to surprise swiftness Rimsky , was liquidated somehow unexpected .
 It came time to act . had drink the bitter cup of responsibility .
 The telephones had been repaired during the third part . had to make calls , to tell what had happened ask for help , up , lie everything on Likhodeev , heap cover for himself and so on .
 Pah , the devil !
 Twice Twice the upset director put his hand on the and twice it drew back .
 And suddenly , in dead silence the office , the telephone burst ringing ringing right in face the findirector , and he went and cold .
 'My though 'My are upset nerves ' , thought he and picked up the receiver .
 He recoiled from it and turned whiter paper .
 A but at the same time insinuating and insinuating lewd female voice whispered into the receiver :
 'Do n't 'Do call , Rimsky , anywhere be bad ... '
 The receiver straight away went empty .
 With goose-flesh prickling on back , the findirector hung up the telephone and prickling turned look for some the window behind his .
 Through the scant and still barely barely greening branches of maple he , saw the moon racing in a transparent cloud .
 His some on fixed on the branches , Rimsky went gazing at them , and the longer he gazed , the more strongly he was gripped fear .
 With great effort , the findirector turned away finally from the moonlit window and stood up .
 There any question of - phone calls longer be no could , and now the findirector was thinking only of thing as possible getting of out theatre .
 He listened : the building theatre was silent .
 Rimsky realized that that he had long the one on whole second the floor , and a childish irrepressible fear came over him at this thought .
 He without shuddering not could think shuddering of having to now walk alone along the empty corridors and down the stairs .
 he Feverishly seized the from the table hypnotist 's banknotes , put them in briefcase and coughed , to a cheer himself . The cough came slightly hoarse , weak .
 And here him it seemed that that under the door office a was coming whiff putrid whiff dankness . Shivers ran down 's spine the findirector .
 And then also rang unexpectedly clock and began strike midnight . And even striking provoked shivers in the findirector . But definitively his heart definitively sank when when he heard in the quietly turning English key .
 Clutching his briefcase with damp , cold hands , the findirector felt that that if if longer were go this scraping in scraping the keyhole , he and piercing scream .
 Finally the door yielded someone 's 's efforts , opened , and the office noiselessly entered Varenukha .
 Rimsky sank stood , simply down into the armchair , because where legs his gave way . Drawing breath , he smiled an ingratiating smile and quietly said : 'God 'God , you me frightened ... '
 Yes , this this sudden appearance might frightened anyone you like , and yet at the same time it was a great joy : peeped out least one little end in this tangled affair . Well , tell me quickly ! Well ?
 Well ! wheezed Rimsky , grasping at this little end . 'What 'What all it does mean ?
 ` Excuse , me please , ` a hollow voice replied , closing the door , ' I thought you already had left . '
 And Varenukha , without taking his off , walked to the armchair and sat the other side desk .
 It must be said that 's 's response Varenukha was marked by a slight oddity who which once needled the findirector , in sensitivity could compete with the seismograph any of best the stations world .
 How it be ?
 Why did Varenukha come to the office findirector he was he there not ?
 He had own office , . And second , whichever entrance the Varenukha had to building , he inevitably would have met one of the night-watchmen , whom all been it announced that that Grigory Grigory Danilovich late was staying in his office .
 But long this oddity the findirector not did pondering - had .
 'Why 'Why you did call ?
 What are all these shenanigans about Yalta ? '
 `` Well , it 's as I was saying , sucking as if he were troubled bad tooth replied the administrator . was found 'He in the tavern in Pushkino .
 ` In In Pushkino ? !
 just outside Moscow ? !
 What telegrams from telegrams Yalta ? !
 'The 'The devil devil from Yalta !
 He got a Pushkino telegrapher , and started two them acting , among things sending telegrams marked '' Yalta .
 'Aha 'Aha ... aha ... Well , all right , all right ... not say sang but out Rimsky .
 His eyes His lit up a yellow with light .
 In head there formed the festive shameful picture dismissal Styopa 's from job .
 Deliverance !
 The 's long-awaited deliverance findirector from this disaster in the person Likhodeev !
 And maybe Stepan Bogdanovich would achieve something worse than dismissal dismissal ... The details ! said Rimsky , banging the paperweight on desk .
 And Varenukha began giving the details .
 As soon as he arrived where had sent findirector , he and most attentive hearing .
 No one , of course , even entertained the thought that Styopa could be in Yalta .
 Everyone Everyone agreed once with suggestion Varenukha Likhodeev that Likhodeev , of course , at in Pushkino Yalta Pushkino . ` Then where is he now ? ` interrupted findirector administrator the agitated findirector .
 'Well 'Well , where could he be the replied , crookedly grinning administrator grinning crookedly .
 'In 'In , naturally ! '
 'Well , well .
 Varenukha Likhodeev went with his story , and the more he told , the more vividly before the findirector unfolded the long chain of Likhodeev 's boorish acts and outrageous , and every the link in this chain was worse than before .
 The was drunken drunken dancing in front the telegrapher on the in the Pushkino lawn telegraph to sounds of some itinerant ! The chase after some citizens shrieking with shrieking terror !
 The attempt with the barman in itself the Yalta ! Scattering green the onions all floor the same Yalta .
 Smashing eight bottles white dry Ai-Danil . Breaking the taxi-driver when refused to take Styopa in cab .
 Threatening arrest the citizens who attempted to stop Styopa 's obnoxiousness ...
 In short , black horror !
 Styopa was well known in theatre circles Moscow , and everyone knew that that man the no was gift .
 But all the same what was telling the administrator about him , even for Styopa was too much . Yes , too much . Even much much ...
 's needle-sharp glance Rimsky across desk pierced face the administrator , and the longer man spoke , the grimmer became those eyes .
 The more lifelike and colourful the vile details with which furnished his story the administrator the less believed the storyteller .
 when And Varenukha told how Styopa had himself so try to resist those who came him to bring back him to Moscow , the findirector already firmly knew that that everything who telling him returned at midnight administrator , was a lie ! A lie from first to last word !
 Varenukha Pushkino never went to Pushkino , and Styopa in Pushkino no was .
 There was drunken telegrapher , there was no broken tied glass ropes in the tavern , Styopa not get up ropes ... ... none it happened .
 As soon as the findirector became firmly convinced that that administrator him , fear crept over his body , starting from the legs , and twice again fancied the findirector was wafting the floor putrid malarial dankness .
 Never for a moment taking his eyes the administrator findirector - strangely who squirmed in armchair desk , somehow squirmed trying not to get out of the blue shade the lamp , fashion some remarkable from bothersome himself light the newspaper - the findirector was thinking only of one : what mean all thing it ?
 Why so being he in the silent and deserted building so brazenly late coming back to him the administrator ?
 And the awareness of danger , an unknown but but menacing danger , began gnaw soul Rimsky .
 Pretending to ignore dodges Varenukha and tricks with the newspaper , the findirector studied his face , almost now without ignore listening the yarn was spinning Varenukha Varenukha .
 was something , that seemed still more inexplicable . than God knows why the invented calumny about adventures in Pushkino , and that something was the change in appearance manners and the administrator .
 No the pulled the duck-like visor cap over his eyes , to throw shadow shadow on face , how fidgeted the with newspaper , the findirector managed make out an enormous bruise on the right side face just the nose .
 Besides that , the full-blooded normally full-blooded administrator was now pale a unhealthy pallor , and on neck his chalk-like this stifling night chalk-like for was wrapped scarf stifling an wrapped striped scarf .
 Add Add to that acquired the administrator during time his absence of repulsive smacking sucking and smacking , the sharp change his voice , which become coarse and hollow coarse and the furtiveness and cowardliness in his eyes , and could boldly one say that that Ivan Savelyevich Varenukha become unrecognizable .
 Something else burningly troubled the findirector , but however much it he he unable was grasp , what strained feverish mind , peered at Varenukha .
 One thing he could affirm , that was there something unprecedented , unnatural in this combination of the administrator and the familiar armchair .
 `` Well , overpowered finally , overpowered loaded into the car , `` boomed Varenukha , peeking from behind paper and the covering bruise .
 Rimsky suddenly numb reached palm and as if mechanically , , at the same time tapping tapping fingers the on table , pushed the electric-bell button and .
 in empty building been ought heard The sharp signal .
 But signal no came , and the button lifelessly sank into the the desk . The button was dead , bell broken .
 's stratagem The findirector not did escape of Varenukha , who asked twitching , twitching , in eyes his flickering a clearly malicious fire :
 `` What ringing for ? '
 `` 'Mechanically , hollowly replied findirector , jerking back hand and , in turn hollowly unsteady an voice his asked : `` What 's that on your on face ? 'The car skidded , bumped against the door-handle , , said Varenukha , bumped looking .
 'He 'He 's ! ' the exclaimed mentally findirector . And here his eyes grew round and suddenly utterly insane , and he stared the the back of armchair .
 Behind the chair on floor lay two criss-cross shadows , one dense and , the other faint and black grey . distinctly could seen on floor shadow of the back of the chair and its tapering legs , but above back the chair no was shadow of head Varenukha , under legs there legs the administrator .
 ` He no casts shadow ! ' ` desperately cried desperately cried Rimsky . He broke into shivers .
 Varenukha furtively looked him , following insane gaze Rimsky , at the back of the chair and realized that that he found out .
 He got up from the ( did the findirector ) and made step back from desk , clutching in hands briefcase .
 'He 'He 's guessed , damn him !
 Always was clever and grinning spitefully grinning right in face the findirector Varenukha unexpectedly sprang from the chair to door and quickly he pushed down the the lock .
 The findirector desperately him retreated , he retreated to the window to garden , and in this window , flooded with moonlight , saw the against glass face naked a girl and her naked arm pressed reaching through the vent-pane and trying to open the lower latch . upper already was open .
 Rimsky It seemed that that light of the lamp was going and desk the desk was tilting .
 Rimsky engulfed icy An wave , but - fortunately for him - he got control himself and not did fall .
 He enough strength had to whisper , but not whisper cry out :
 'Help 'Help ...
 Varenukha , guarding the door , hopped staying by it , staying swaying in air time the and swaying there . Waving hooked fingers he hissed in direction Rimsky , smacked and smacked , winking the girl in window .
 She hurry , stuck red-haired clawing head through the vent , reached as she arm , nails began clawing the lower latch and shaking the frame .
 Her arm Her began to lengthen , rubber-like , and became covered a putrid putrid green .
 Finally the green fingers dead woman got of the knob latch , turned it , and the frame began to open . Rimsky weakly cried , leaned against the wall and his briefcase held in front , like a shield .
 He realized that that had come his end .
 The frame wide swung open , but instead night 's freshness and fragrance lindens into cellar the room burst smell a cellar .
 The dead woman stepped on to the window-sill . Rimsky clearly saw spots of decay on her breast .
 And just the then the joyful unexpected crowing a cock came from garden , from that low building beyond gallery the where were kept birds participating in the programme .
 A loud loud trained cock trumpeted , announcing announcing that towards Moscow from the east was rolling dawn .
 Savage fury oath distorted face the girl , she emitted a hoarse oath , and Varenukha at door shrieked and dropped from air to floor .
 The cock-crow was repeated , the girl clacked her teeth , and red her hair stood on .
 With the third the crowing of she turned and flew cock , and after her , jumping and stretching himself horizontally in the air , looking a flying cupid , floated slowly the window over desk Varenukha .
 White as snow , with a single black on hair head the old man who recently had still been Rimsky , rushed to the door , undid the , opened the door and ran hurtling down dark corridor .
 At the turn to stairs he , moaning with moaning fear , felt the , and stairway lighted up .
 On the stairs shaking , trembling old man fell because because that he imagined imagined that on him top had softly tumbled Varenukha .
 Having run downstairs , Rimsky saw asleep a watchman asleep on downstairs chair the office in lobby .
 Rimsky stole past him on tiptoe and slipped out main the entrance .
 Outside he felt slightly better .
 He enough recovered his to , clutching his head , realize , that hat his had stayed in the office .
 Needless , for it he not back , but , breathless , go ran across the wide street to the opposite corner by the movie theatre , near which hovered a dull reddish dull reddish light .
 In a moment he was was there . No one had intercept the cab .
 ` Make the Leningrad express well , ` breathing heavily breathing and tip breathing clutching clutching heart the old man .
 ' the to garage going , the ' hatefully answered the driver and turned away .
 Then Rimsky unlatched briefcase roubles , took his out fifty roubles and handed the them through the open front window driver .
 A few moments later the rattling car like the , was flying down Sadovoye Sadovoye Ring .
 The passenger was tossed on his seat , and in the fragment mirror hanging front the driver , Rimsky saw the now happy insane eyes driver , now own insane ones .
 Jumping out car in train station , Rimsky cried to first man in white a apron briefcase with a : 'First 'First first class , single thirty pay , pulling , he pulling crumpling from banknotes briefcase the banknotes , 'no second  them if not  get a hard bench !
 man with the badge kept glancing at lighted banknotes The tore from hand Rimsky the .
 later Five minutes from under the glass vault the train station disappeared the and clean vanished in the darkness . with it And vanished Rimsky .
 It is difficult to guess that that the man with purple the physiognomy who put in clinic the 119 was Nikanor Ivanovich Bosoy .
 He got He , however to Professor Stravinsky not once , but after first visiting another place .
 Of other this place Nikanor Ivanovich 's remained in 's memory little .
 He recalled only a a desk , bookcase sofa and .
 There with Nikanor Ivanovich , who before his eyes some sort had haze from the rush blood and of mental agitation agitation was a conversation , but the conversation came somehow strange muddled , muddled , or , better to say , did all not come .
 first very question put to Nikanor Ivanovich was the following : 'Are you Nikanor Ivanovich Ivanovich Bosoy Sadovaya , chairman of house committee at no.502-bis no.502-bis on Sadovaya Street ?
 To this Nikanor Ivanovich , bursting terrible laughter , replied literally thus :
 ' I Nikanor , of course I 'm Nikanor !
 But what kind I the deuce chairman ? ' 'Meaning the 'Meaning what ? ' was asked eyes with narrowing .
 ` , ` replied he , ` that if was I chairman , , I once should have determined that he an unclean power !
 Otherwise - what is it ?
 A cracked ... all in rags ... what of he could be interpreter foreigner ?
 'Who are 'Who you talking ? ' was asked Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'Koroviev 'Koroviev ! cried Got himself 'Koroviev Nikanor Ivanovich . ` in fifty apartment number our lodged .
 Write it - Koroviev !
 He must once be caught .
 Write - the sixth entrance . there He .
 ` Where did the currency ? ` was fully asked soul Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'As God is true , God almighty , began Nikanor Ivanovich , everything sees , and me it right .
 a it never laid finger , never suspected , what this it currency !
 God punishing me is punishing for iniquity my , with feeling went Nikanor Ivanovich , now unbuttoning his shirt , now buttoning , now crossing himself . I took ! I took , but I took ours Soviet money !
 people for money , n't argue , it happened .
 is one Our secretary Bedsornev , too good one !
 Frankly speaking , there nothing thieves in the house management ...
 But currency I never took ! '
 To the request that he stop playing fool and tell how how the got dollars into the ventilation , Nikanor Ivanovich went on knees and swayed , swayed opening as if meant to swallow the parquet section .
 'If you , mumbled it , eat 'll dirt that n't did do !
 And Koroviev - he the devil ! '
 All patience has patience , and the desk now was raised voice , hinting Nikanor Ivanovich that he speaking in human language .
 Here the room sofa with that same sofa roaring resounded with wild roaring Nikanor Ivanovich , he jumped from knees :
 'There 'There is ! There he behind bookcase !
 He 's grinning !
 And pince-nez his ... Hold him !
 Spray the room ! '
 The blood left face Nikanor Ivanovich he Trembling , made crosses the air , rushing to the door and back , intoned some sheer prayer spouting gibberish and finally began spouting spouting gibberish .
 It became perfectly perfectly clear that Nikanor Ivanovich any conversation unfit unfit for .
 He taken out and put in a separate room , where he calmed and only prayed sobbed and sobbed .
 to Sadovaya , of course , They go and visit apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 . But any Koroviev there not they find , and no any Koroviev one in house either knew or had seen .
 The apartment , occupied the late Berlioz well by Yalta-visiting the Yalta-visiting Likhodeev , was was empty unbroken , and in the study peacefully hung anyone unbroken seals seals on bookcases .
 With that they left Sadovaya , and with them departed perplexed dispirited and dispirited secretary of house management , Bedsornev .
 In the evening Nikanor Ivanovich was delivered to 's clinic Stravinsky .
 There he became so agitated , that him had made an injection according to recipe Stravinsky , and only after midnight Nikanor Ivanovich fall asleep in 119 room , then emitting heavy painful a moan .
 But the he , the longer slept easier became his sleep .
 He stopped became tossing groaning and tossing groaning , easy and regular , and he left .
 Then Nikanor Ivanovich was visited a dream , at the basis which , undoubtedly undoubtedly lay of the day experience .
 It began with Nikanor Ivanovich seeing were as some people with golden their trumpets in hands leading him , and very solemnly , to big lacquered door .
 At this door his companions played were it nourish Nikanor Ivanovich , and then a resounding bass from the sky merrily said :
 'Welcome 'Welcome , Nikanor Ivanovich ! your currency '
 Exceedingly astonished , Nikanor Ivanovich saw a above him black loudspeaker .
 Then he for some reason found himself blazed in a theatre house , where under gilded blazed chandeliers Quinquet chandeliers and on walls Quinquet lamps .
 Everything was as it be in small-sized but costly theatre .
 There was was stage closed off velvet a curtain , its dark cerise background spangled , as pieces with stars gold oversized , a prompter box and even an audience .
 What surprised Nikanor Ivanovich was that that all this audience was the sex - male - and all for some reason bearded .
 Besides that , it was striking that in the theatre seats no were , and all the audience was sitting on floor , splendidly polished and slippery .
 Abashed in new and big this company , Nikanor Ivanovich , after brief , followed the general example and sat down on parquet Turkish-fashion , huddled between some the bearded stalwart , redhead and another , pale and quite overgrown citizen .
 None the of sitters paid any attention to newly arrived spectator .
 Here the soft ringing bell , lights in the house the the went out , and opened reveal lighted stage with a armchair , table on which stood golden bell , and a solid black velvet backdrop .
 from the wings An came artiste in evening jacket , smoothly neatly shaven , young and with very pleasant features his .
 The audience in the house livened , and everyone turned the towards stage .
 The artiste advanced rubbed to prompter box and .
 'All 'All sitting ? 'he asked 'he a soft baritone and smiled to the house .
 'Sitting 'Sitting , sitting , tenors answered the from house tenors and basses .
 'Hm 'Hm ... the began pensively artiste , 'and how you 're not sick it . I n't understand !
 Everybody else is walking now around floor , enjoying the the spring sun and warmth , and you here the 're stuck on stuffy of theatre !
 Is programme the so interesting ?
 Tastes however , , the philosophically concluded artiste .
 Then he changed both the timbre of voice , and intonation and gaily and resoundingly announced :
 ` And now for next number our programme - Nikanor Ivanovich Bosoy , chairman of a house committee and director dietetic of a kitchen .
 , Nikanor Ivanovich ! '
 General applause greeted greeted the artiste .
 The surprised Nikanor Ivanovich goggled his eyes , while the master , blocking hand with the the footlights , located him among sitters and tenderly beckoned him his finger on-stage on-stage .
 And Nikanor Ivanovich , without knowing how , found himself on-stage on-stage .
 in eyes his front and from below Beams struck light coloured , which once caused sink into darkness house and audience .
 'Well 'Well , Nikanor Ivanovich , set us example , 'turn good soulfully young artiste , 'turn your currency . '
 Silence ensued .
 Nikanor Ivanovich took a breath and quietly began to speak : ' God I swear to that ...
 But before had to he get out the words , the whole house burst into shouts of indignation .
 Nikanor Ivanovich got confused fell and .
 'As 'As as I understand you , the announcer programme , 'you 'you wanted to swear to God that you have any got currency ? and he sympathetically gazed at Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'Exactly 'Exactly right , n't , replied Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'Right 'Right , responded excuse artiste , 'and the excuse the indiscretion , where did the were four hundred dollars that found in privy of the the apartment , sole the inhabitants which are come you and your wife ?
 'Magic 'Magic ! ' obvious irony said someone in the dark house irony .
 'Exactly 'Exactly 'Exactly magic , timidly replied Nikanor Ivanovich addressing vaguely addressing , either the artiste or the dark house , and he explained : 'Unclean 'Exactly 'Unclean powers , the checkered interpreter interpreter stuck . '
 And again indignant indignant the raised house .
 When came silence , the artiste said : 'See 'See what fables La Fontaine have I listen to !
 Stuck him four hundred dollars !
 Now , : all you are currency dealers , I address you as experts conceivable conceivable is that conceivable ? '
 ' We 're not currency dealers , ' came various offended voices from the theatre , 'but 'but not it conceivable !
 'm the , ` firmly said artiste , ` and let ask me you : what can be stuck with ?
 ' A baby ! ' cried someone from the house .
 ` Absolutely correct , the announcer programme , baby , anonymous letter , tract infernal , infernal machine , else , but four hundred dollars one no will stick with , for such idiots in nature n't exist . ` And turning to Nikanor Ivanovich , artiste confirmed added reproachfully and sorrowfully : ` You upset me , Nikanor Ivanovich Ivanovich and 've I on you was counting .
 So , number our n't did come off . '
 the house Whistles came Whistles to Nikanor Ivanovich .
 'He currency dealer 'He , they shouted the house , 'and for 'and we innocent the suffer him ! '
 ` n't scold him , ` softly said master of ceremonies , 'he repent .
 , turning to Nikanor Ivanovich filled with blue eyes tears , he added : 'Well 'Well , , Nikanor Ivanovich go to place .
 After that artiste the rang the bell and loudly announced : 'Intermission 'Intermission , you blackguards !
 The shaken Nikanor Ivanovich , unexpectedly for himself who become participant in some sort of theatre programme , again himself found in his place on the floor .
 Here he dreamed , that house was plunged in total darkness and that on the walls leaped fiery red fiery words : : Turn over your currency ! '
 Then again the opened curtain and and the master of invited : ' I call to the stage Sergei Gerardovich Dunchil Dunchil .
 Dunchil turned a fine-looking but unkempt unkempt man of about fifty .
 ` Sergei Sergei Gerardovich , addressed him the of ceremonies , ` for a half month 'you been sitting here , stubbornly refusing to turn you the currency , while country is in for it , And it whatsoever no whatsoever and you still persist .
 You man an intelligent , perfectly all it you understand well and yet n't you want comply me with . '
 To regret , nothing do I can , since is currency I more no , ' calmly replied Dunchil .
 ` Do have n't at n't least some diamonds ? ` asked the artiste .
 'No 'No diamonds either . '
 The artiste hung his head and pondered , then then clapped his .
 from the wings came out middle-aged middle-aged A lady , dressed - that is , in collarless and a collarless tiny tiny .
 The lady looked worried , but Dunchil glanced at her without without moving an eyebrow .
 'Who 'Who is this lady ? ' the asked announcer programme Dunchil .
 'That 'That is my wife , ' with dignity replied Dunchil and looked at 's long neck the lady with a certain repugnance .
 We troubled adverted you , Madame Dunchil , ' adverted to master ceremonies , 'with regard 'with the following : we wanted to you to ask , have does any your husband more currency ?
 ` He it turned ` nervously , replied Madame Dunchil .
 'Right 'Right said artiste , , 'well , if so , it so .
 If it he , then we ought 's ought immediately to part with Sergei Gerardovich , there else !
 If wish , you you may leave the theatre , Sergei Gerardovich gesture . And artiste made a regal gesture .
 Dunchil calmly and with dignity turned , and headed for the wings .
 'Just 'Just a moment ! ' stopped him master of ceremonies . 'Allow 'Allow me on parting to show you more one number from our programme . And again clapped his .
 The black backdrop parted , and to the stage came a young beauty in ball gown , holding her in hands golden tray wad on which lay a a tray wad tied candy-box ribbon and necklace from which in all directions leaped blue , yellow and red fire .
 Dunchil took back a and face his went pale .
 The house froze .
 'Eighteen 'Eighteen thousand dollars and necklace in worth forty thousand gold , ` solemnly announced artiste , ` kept by Sergei Gerardovich Kharkov in city Kharkov , in the apartment of his mistress , Ida Kharkov Herkulanovna Vors , whom we have pleasure of seeing before us and who kindly helped discovering these treasures , vet useless in hands a private person treasures .
 Many thanks ! , Ida Herkulanovna '
 The beauty flashing , smiled her teeth , and lush her eyelashes fluttered .
 'And 'And under your very dignified mask , ` adverted concealed artiste to Dunchil , ` is concealed greedy astonishing spider and greedy astonishing bamboozler and liar .
 You wore out everyone during this half month with your dull obstinacy .
 Go now home , and let the hell sets you your wife be your punishment . '
 Dunchil swayed and , it seems , wanted fall down , but 's sympathetic hands was held by someone .
 Here the dropped front curtain and concealed all those on-stage on-stage .
 Furious applause shook the house so , that Nikanor Ivanovich fancied fancied in chandeliers were leaping leaping the .
 When the front curtain went up , on-stage on-stage there no one no was except the lone artiste .
 he second applause , bowed and began : 'In 'In person this Dunchil you shown our programme a typical ass .
 I did have pleasure of saying yesterday that that the of concealing currency is senseless .
 make use of it No one No can under any circumstances , I assure you .
 Let 's same this Dunchil .
 He gets splendid salary and n't n't want anything . He splendid a apartment , wife and beautiful mistress .
 But no , instead of of having living quietly and peacefully , without any troubles , turned over the currency and stones , this mercenary blockhead gets himself , exposed in front everybody and to top off contracts major family trouble .
 So , who turn over ?
 Any volunteers ?
 In for that case next number on our programme , famous dramatic the talent , , actor Kurolesov Sawa Potapovich , especially invited here , will perform excerpts from The Covetous Knight Pushkin by poet Pushkin .
 The promised Kurolesov not was slow coming on stage and be strapping and beefy strapping a man in tailcoat and a white tailcoat tie .
 Without any preliminaries preliminaries he concocted gloomy face , , knitted his brows and began unnatural in voice , glancing at golden the bell :
 ` As young scapegrace awaits a tryst with some scapegrace sly strumpet strumpet ... And Kurolesov told about himself many bad things .
 Nikanor Ivanovich heard Kurolesov confess that that some wretched widow , howling , had gone to him on knees in rain , but failed had move callous heart the actor .
 Nikanor Ivanovich Before his dream completely ignorant ignorant the works poet Pushkin , but himself he knew perfectly and several a day times used to say phrases the like : 'And 'And stairway Pushkin to pay the 's ? 'or 'or Then ` bulb on stairway - - Pushkin unscrew ? ' or 'So fuel who going - Pushkin buy the 's ? '
 Now , having become acquainted with one of his works , Nikanor Ivanovich felt sad , imagined the woman on knees , with orphaned children , in the rain , and involuntarily thought : `` What type , this Kurolesov ! '
 And latter , ever raising his voice , went muddled and definitively got definitively muddled Nikanor Ivanovich , because because the suddenly started addressing on-stage someone who on-stage on-stage not was , and for this absent one himself and responded , he calling himself now dear sir , now baron , now father , now son , now formally .
 Nikanor Ivanovich understood the only one thing , that died actor an evil death , crying : 'Keys 'Keys ! My keys My ! ' , he collapsed the after which on floor , gasping and carefully tearing off his tie .
 Having died , Kurolesov got up , brushed the from trousers trousers , bowed with a false smile , and withdrew the accompaniment thin accompaniment applause . And the master began speaking thus : 'We 'We have just heard by wonderfully performed Sawa Potapovich The Covetous Knight .
 This knight hoped , that frolicking nymphs would come running to him and would occur other many things pleasant in the same vein . But , as you see , none it none happened , the nymphs no came running to him , and muses him tribute mansions no paid , and he no raised , but , on the contrary , ended quite badly a , died jewels of stroke on his of currency and jewels .
 I warn you that that to you is happen the thing your , if not worse , if you n't turn currency ! '
 Whether 's poetry Whether Pushkin produced such an effect or prosaic speech the master of ceremonies , , in case from house a suddenly came shy voice : ' I turn my over currency . ` Kindly come to the stage , the courteously invited master of ceremonies , peering into the dark house .
 On-stage On-stage appeared a short fair-haired , fair-haired citizen , , judging by , not who shaved about three weeks .
 'Beg 'Beg pardon , what is your name ? the inquired pardon master ceremonies .
 'Kanavkin 'Kanavkin , Nikolai , shyly responded the man .
 'Ah 'Ah !
 Very pleased . Citizen Kanavkin . And so ?
 ' I turn it , ' quietly said Kanavkin .
 'How 'How much ? '
 ' A thousand dollars and twenty ten-rouble ten-rouble gold pieces . '
 'Bravo 'Bravo !
 all , That ? '
 The announcer programme stared straight into 's eyes Kanavkin , and Nikanor Ivanovich even it seemed that that those eyes sent out rays that penetrated Kanavkin like X-rays X-rays . The house stopped breathing .
 ` I believe you ! ` finally exclaimed extinguished artiste and extinguished his gaze . I do !
 These eyes are not lying !
 many times I told you that that basic your error consists in underestimating significance the human eye .
 Understand that that tongue can conceal the truth , but the eyes - never !
 you is put A sudden question , you even n't flinch , in one second get yourself and know what must say conceal to conceal the truth , and quite convincingly you speak , and not a wrinkle on your face not moves , but - alas - wrinkle which stirs question the from bottom of soul the momentarily leaps into your eyes , and it all over !
 They it , and you 're caught ! '
 Having delivered , and with great ardour , this highly convincing speech , the artiste tenderly inquired of Kanavkin : 'And 'And where is it hidden ?
 With aunt my , Porokhovnikova , on Prechistenka . '
 'Ah 'Ah !
 That ... 's wait ... that 's Klavdia Ilyinishna , it is ? '
 'Yes 'Yes .
 'Ah 'Ah , yes , yes , , yes !
 A little separate house ? A opposite garden ?
 Of course , I know , I know !
 And where did you it there put ? '
 'In 'In the , in candy cellar ...
 The artiste clasped his hands . 'Have 'Have seen you ever the like ? cried he chagrined .
 `` Why , it there get damp and mouldy !
 it conceivable Is such people entrust currency to ? Eh ?
 Sheer childishness childishness ! childishness By God !
 Kanavkin himself realized he fouled and was , and he hung his tufty head .
 'Money 'Money , ' the artiste , 'must 'must be kept in the bank , in special dry and well-guarded well-guarded rooms , and by means no in aunt 's cellar , where it may , in particular , suffer from damage rats !
 Really shame , shame , Kanavkin ! You 're a grown-up grown-up !
 Kanavkin longer no knew what to , and merely picked the with lapel his jacket .
 'Well , artiste , bygones bygones ... And suddenly he added unexpectedly : 'Ah , in one , a trip save ... ... aunt this same some also has ? ? Kanavkin , never never expecting such a turn of affairs , wavered , and the theatre fell silent .
 'Ehh 'Ehh , Kanavkin ... ' in reproach said master , 'and 'and I was praising him !
 Look he , went it and messed no reason all !
 It absurd , Kanavkin !
 I just Was talking about eyes ?
 Ca we see that that the aunt some ?
 Well then , why you us nothing torment ?
 'She 'She has ! ' dashingly cried Kanavkin .
 'Bravo 'Bravo the ! ' cried master of ceremonies .
 'Bravo 'Bravo ! ' frightfully the roared house .
 When things quieted , the master congratulated Kanavkin , shook his him hand , offered home to city in a car , and in that same car told someone in wings go fetch aunt and ask her to come at women 's theatre the programme .
 'Ah 'Ah , , I wanted ask you , aunt ever mentioned hers where she hides hers ? ' inquired master of , courteously offering Kanavkin a cigarette and lighted cigarette a .
 the man As up , lit grinned somehow wistfully .
 ' I believe you , I believe you , the artiste . 'Not the pinchfist 'Not nephew the n't tell himself !
 Well , so , we try to awaken in her some human feelings .
 have Maybe not all the strings rotted in her usurious little soul .
 Bye-bye Bye-bye , Kanavkin ! '
 And the happy Kanavkin drove off .
 The artiste inquired whether there others who wished turn their currency , but was with answered answered .
 'Odd 'Odd birds , by God ! shrugging , the shrugging artiste , and the curtain hid him .
 The lights went out , a while was darkness , and in it a was nervous , singing : : There heaps gold gold shine and mine are those heaps ... ''
 Then subdued twice came applause .
 'Some in women 's theatre little lady is , ' unexpectedly spoke 's red-bearded neighbour Nikanor Ivanovich and with sigh , added : 'Ah 'Ah , n't geese my geese !
 I , dear fellow fighting geese in Lianozovo ... they , die , without me .
 A bird fighting delicate , it delicate needs care ...
 Ah , if was n't geese !
 Pushkin me n't surprise They ... And he again began sigh .
 Here house lit up brightly , and Nikanor Ivanovich dreamed that from all doors came pouring cooks in white hats and with their ladles in hands .
 Scullions dragged in Scullions cauldron of soup and a stand with cut-up rye bread .
 The spectators livened up . The jolly cooks shuttled among theatre buffs , ladled soup out bowls , and distributed bread .
 'Dig 'Dig in , lads cooks , shouted , 'and 'and turn your currency !
 What 's the point here sitting ? Who wants this swill slop !
 Go home , have a drink , bite , good ! '
 'Now 'Now , what you you , instance , for sitting here , old ? was addressed directly by Nikanor Ivanovich fat with raspberry-coloured neck cook , a he him bowl in which in some liquid floated cabbage leaf .
 ' n't ! I n't ! I a terrible voice cried Nikanor Ivanovich . 'You 'You understand , I n't !
 ` You ? menacing bass the bellowed cook . n't ? tender woman 's voice bellowed asked he . ` do n't , n't n't soothingly murmured he , turning into the nurse Praskovya Fyodorovna .
 She gently was shaking shaking in sleep Nikanor Ivanovich by the shoulder .
 Then melted cooks and the broke theatre with curtain .
 Nikanor Ivanovich , tears made out his room people in the hospital and two in white coats , by means casual cooks getting at people with their advice , but doctor and that the same Praskovya Fyodorovna , who holding not a but a dish covered with gauze , with lying on it syringe .
 ` this that ? bitterly said Nikanor Ivanovich , as him they giving injection . ` I and !
 Let Pushkin them turn his currency .
 I any !
 'No 'No you , , n't n't , ' soothed kind-hearted Praskovya Fyodorovna , 'and 'and there n't , said no . '
 Nikanor Ivanovich After the injection , and felt fell asleep without any dreams .
 But thanks his to cries , alarm was communicated to 120 room room , where patient woke up and began looking for his head , , and to 118 , where became the unknown master and in restless wrung hands , looking at the moon , remembering bitter the last of life autumn night , a strip light under door the basement and uncurled hair .
 From 118 room the alarm balcony , flew to Ivan , and he woke up and began weep .
 But doctor quickly calmed all anxious , sorrowing heads , and they began fall asleep .
 was last oblivious Ivan , as over the river already was .
 After the medicine , which suffused whole his body , calm came and covered him like a wave him .
 body His grew lighter , his head basked warm the reverie .
 He fell asleep , and last the thing he heard was the pre-dawn chirping birds in the woods .
 But they soon fell silent , and he began dreaming that that the sun already going down over Bald Mountain , and was the mountain cordoned a double cordon ...
 The sun already was going over Bald Mountain , and was the mountain cordoned a double cordon .
 The cavalry 's ala that cut across the procurator 's path around noon trotting came to the Hebron gate of the city .
 Its way already had been prepared .
 The infantry of Cappadocian cohort pushed the sides conglomeration people , mules and camels , and ala , trotting and raising the sky white in columns dust , came to an intersection where met two roads : the south road leading to Bethlehem , and the north-west to Jaffa . The ala raced the down north-west road .
 The same Cappadocians were strung out along sides of the road , and in good time had driven to it the sides all caravans caravans hastening to feast in Yershalaim . Crowds pilgrims pilgrims stood behind Cappadocians , having abandoned their temporary striped tents , pitched right on the grass .
 Going for about a half-mile , ala caught with the second cohort of the Lightning legion and first was reach , having covered another half-mile , the foot of Bald Mountain .
 Here they dismounted .
 The commander broke the into squads , and they cordoned whole foot of the small hill , leaving open only way from the Jaffa road .
 After some time the ala was joined at the hill second cohort , climbed in one level higher and also wreath encircled hill wreath .
 Finally arrived century under command Mark Ratslayer .
 It went stretched out in files cart along sides of road , and between these files , convoyed by secret the guard , rode in cart hanging the three condemned men with white hanging boards necks around necks , on each of them written 'robber 'robber and rebel ' in two languages - Aramaic and Aramaic Greek .
 The cart the condemned men was others laden with hewn freshly hewn posts with crosspieces , crosspieces , ropes buckets , shovels and axes . in these carts rode Six executioners .
 followed They on horseback were by centurion Mark , the chief the temple of guard of Yershalaim and that same man the , with whom Pilate had had momentary a meeting in darkened room the palace .
 A brought procession soldiers the rear , and behind it walked about two thousand the curious , by undaunted infernal heat and wishing to be present at interesting infernal spectacle .
 The curious from city were joined now curious pilgrims , who without hindrance were admitted to the tail of procession .
 Under the shrill cries of heralds who accompanied the column and cried out what at around noon cried Pilate , the drew itself up Bald procession Mountain .
 The ala admitted everyone to second level , but second century let go the up only those those the connected with execution , and then , quickly manoeuvring , spread the around entire hill , so that people found between cordons of cordons infantry above and cavalry below .
 Now they could watch the execution through the sparse line the infantry .
 And so , had gone since the procession the mountain more than three hours , and the sun already was going over Bald Mountain , but the heat still was unbearable , , and the soldiers in both cordons suffered weary from it , grew weary with boredom and in hearts cursed three robbers , sincerely wishing them the speediest death .
 The little commander ala his moist brow and the dark back white with sweat , having placed himself at of hill by the open passage went over to the leather bucket of first squad , scooped from it handfuls water , drank and wetted his turban .
 Somewhat relieved by that Somewhat , he step away and again would begin pacing back forth and the dusty road leading to the top . His long sword his slapped against laced slapped leather boot .
 The commander wished give his cavalrymen spears example of endurance , but , pitying soldiers , he allowed them in ground to stick pyramid-like and throw over them their white cloaks .
 Under these tents , hid from merciless the sun the Syrians .
 The emptied were emptied quickly , and cavalrymen from different squads took going fetch water in gully below the hill , where in thin shade shade spindly mulberries mulberries was living its days in the devilish heat muddy brook .
 There too , catching unsteady shade , stood the horse-handlers , holding the quieted horses .
 The the soldiers and weariness they at the robbers were understandable .
 The apprehensions procurator concerning the disorders , that might occur at time the execution in the hated him city Yershalaim , not were borne . And when came the fourth hour execution , between two files , above infantry and the cavalry the not there was , contrary to all expectations , a single person . The sun scorched the and had driven it back to Yershalaim .
 Beyond the of two Roman centuries were only two no knew whom belonged and for some ended up on the hill dogs .
 But too them got the heat , and they lay down , hanging panting tongues , panting and no paying no attention to the green-backed lizards , the only lizards beings beings not hanging afraid of the sun darting among scorching the stones and some of big-thorned big-thorned crept on ground plants that big-thorned .
 No one attempted to rescue the condemned men either in itself Yershalaim , flooded troops , or here on the cordoned-off hill , and the crowd went back the to city , for indeed absolutely there nothing interesting was in this execution , while there in the city were was preparations for that evening the great feast of Passover .
 The Roman infantry cavalry on second the level suffered still more .
 the centurion Ratslayer The allowed soldiers was take off helmets and cover with white headbands , dipped water , but he kept them standing and with spears in hands .
 himself He in the same headband , but not , not dry wet , walked about not far from group executioners , without taking even off his muzzles greaves the silver muzzles lions muzzles , removing his , greaves sword and knife .
 The sun beat straight down on centurion without without doing him any harm , and the lions muzzles impossible were look - the eyes were devoured dazzling gleam as if boiling in the sun silver .
 's mutilated face Ratslayer expressed neither weariness nor displeasure , and it seemed that the giant centurion was capable of pacing like all day , all the night and next day - , as long necessary . way same pacing , holding hands to heavy with the plaques belt , in same glancing now at posts with executed men , now at soldiers the , the same indifferent way kicking shaggy whitened whitened happened his under feet that time human boot bones or shaggy small flints .
 That man in hood placed himself far from posts stool on three-legged stool and sat there in complacent motionlessness , , though from boredom poking the with poking sand twig .
 What has been said about there beyond the file of legionaries not being a single person not is quite true .
 There one person was , but simply not everyone he be seen by .
 He had placed himself not on the side where was open the the mountain and from where been convenient most to watch the execution , but on side north , , where the slope was not gentle and gentle accessible , but uneven , gaps clefts and clefts , where , clutching the crevice at heaven-cursed heaven-cursed waterless soil , was trying live sickly fig tree .
 Precisely under it , Precisely though no it gave shade , had established himself this sole spectator who not participant the execution , and had sat on a stone from the very beginning , that is now over three hours .
 Yes , for watching the execution , he had chosen not best but but the worst position .
 But still even from there posts the be seen and there seen be beyond the file , two dazzling the spots on 's chest centurion , and that , apparently , for a man who obviously wished remain be little noticed and not bothered by was quite enough .
 But some four hours ago , at the start the execution , this man behaved differently quite and very might been noticed , which , probably he had changed now his behaviour and secluded himself .
 It , only when procession came to very the top file , he had appeared first and that as latecomer an obvious latecomer .
 He breathing hard was breathing and not walk , but ran pushing up the hill , pushing and , seeing pretending before him as before everyone else , the cart , made naive a attempt , pretending , he not did understand the angry shouts , to break through the soldiers to the very place execution , where already the taken condemned men from the cart .
 For that he he received a heavy blow the butt end the spear in chest butt and leaped back from the soldiers , crying , not in pain but in despair .
 At the who legionary he cast utterly utterly indifferent to everything glance , like man , indifferent insensible to physical pain .
 Coughing and breathless clutching , clutching his chest , he ran the hill , trying to the north side find some gap in the file he where could slip through .
 But was too it late , the ring was closed . And man , his distorted with grief , forced was renounce his attempts to break through to the the , from which had already unloaded carts posts .
 These attempts nowhere have led nowhere would , except , that he been would seized , and to be arrested on that day by means no entered his plans .
 And And so he went to towards the crevice , where was quieter and nobody him nobody bothered .
 Now , sitting on the stone , , this black-bearded , his festering from the sun and lack eyes man was anguish .
 he First he sighed , opening worn his in wanderings , from light-blue grey been to light-blue dirty tallith , and bared which sweat spear chest hurt , which hurt ran dirty sweat ; then in unendurable pain raised his eyes to sky , following three vultures , long been floating anticipating in high great circles imminent imminent feast ; then peered hopeless into the yellow earth and he saw on it the half-destroyed dog and scurrying around it lizards .
 The sufferings man were so great that at times he began talking himself to .
 'Oh 'Oh , I fool ... muttered he , swaying clawing on the stone in the pain and nails clawing swarthy chest nails his fool .
 'Fool , I , 'm not man ! !
 He he silent , fall his head , then , after drinking from a wooden flask warm water , revive again and clutch now at knife the hidden under tallith on chest , now at the piece parchment lying before him on the stone next to stylus and a pot of stylus ink .
 On this parchment some had already been scribbled notes : : The run minutes on , and I , Matthew Levi , am here on Bald Mountain , and death still no ! '
 Further :
 ' The sun is sinking , but death no .
 Now Matthew Levi hopelessly wrote sharp stylus with : 'God 'God ! Why you angry with him ?
 Send him death ' .
 Having written this , he tearlessly sobbed and again his nails wounded his chest nails .
 The reason 's despair Levi 's lay in the terrible misfortune that that befallen Yeshua and him and and , besides that , in the the grave error that that he , Levi , in his own opinion , had committed .
 Two days , Yeshua and Levi been in Bethphage near Yershalaim , where they visited a certain gardener who very much liked preaching Yeshua .
 the whole morning two The visitors spent working in the garden , helping their host , and towards evening when planned to go cooled off to Yershalaim .
 But Yeshua to for some began hurry , said said he in the city had urgent business , and left around noontime alone .
 Here lay first error Matthew Levi .
 Why , why he let go him alone !
 that evening Matthew to go to Yershalaim Nor was . some unexpected and terrible ailment was He .
 He shake chattered , body his was filled with fire , he began teeth kept asking to drink .
 anywhere go He not could .
 He collapsed a on blanket in the gardener and lay there till dawn on Friday , when the illness as unexpectedly released Levi , as it had fallen upon him .
 Though he was still weak and legs his trembled , he , oppressed some by foreboding disaster , took leave of his host and went to Yershalaim .
 There he learned that that foreboding him had not deceived the disaster occurred .
 Levi was in the crowd and heard announce the procurator announce the sentence .
 When the condemned men were led to the mountain , Matthew Levi ran alongside the in the of curious inconspicuous , trying let in some way inconspicuous to know Yeshua at that he , Levi , there was with him , that he not had abandoned him on his last journey and that he was praying that death Yeshua overtake as soon possible .
 But Yeshua , who looking into the distance towards where he being taken , of course , Levi not did see .
 And And then , when procession had gone about half-mile the along road , Matthew , who jostled by just next the crowd file , dawned simple and ingenious thought , and once , in his excitement he showered himself with curses for having it not thought earlier .
 soldiers was not solid , between them were spaces .
 Given great dexterity and a precise dexterity calculation , one could down , bend slip between two legionaries , slip to cart and jump into it . Then Yeshua be saved from suffering .
 One instant would enough be to stab Yeshua with in the back knife , crying to him : 'Yeshua 'Yeshua ! I save you and go with !
 I , Matthew , your faithful and only disciple ! '
 And if if God granted him more one free instant , he would have time to avoid stab also himself death on a post .
 This however , last little was interest to Levi , the former tax collector .
 He was indifferent to how he died .
 He wanted one thing , that Yeshua , never who had done the anyone in life least evil , should escape torture .
 The plan was a very good one , but matter the fact was that that Levi knife with no had . Nor have him he single piece of money .
 Furious Furious with himself , Levi got of out the crowd and ran the back to city .
 in burning his head was leaping A single feverish thought : how there , any in possible , to procure in the city knife and procure have overtake procession .
 He ran up to city the gate , manoeuvring amid the throng being sucked into city caravans , and saw to his left the door of shop where was sold bread .
 Breathing hard Breathing after running down scorched road , Levi got control of himself , very sedately entered the , greeted the woman behind , asked her to take from the top the loaf , which for some reason he liked better than others , and when when she turned around , silently and quickly took from the that than which better be nothing could knife , a long razor-sharp bread knife - and at once dashed out the shop .
 A moments later he again was on the Jaffa road . But procession longer no was sight .
 He ran .
 At times he had to drop down right in the and lie motionless to his .
 And so he lie there , astonishment of riding on mules or walking on foot to Yershalaim people . He would lie listening to pounding pounding his his not only in chest but in head ears and ears . Having a little , he up and continue jump running , but ever slower and slower .
 When he finally caught sight of the in the procession , it was already at the foot of the hill .
 'Oh , God ... moaned Levi , realizing that that he moaned be late .
 And he was . When the gone fourth hour the execution , torments Levi 's reached their highest degree and and he fell a into torments rage .
 Getting up from the stone , he flung crushed to the ground vain , as he now thought the stolen the knife , crushed depriving flask with , depriving himself water , threw off foot his kefia , seized his thin knife hair and began cursing himself .
 He cursed himself , calling out meaningless words , growled spat and growled spat , abused his father and mother for bringing into world a fool .
 Seeing that that curses and abuse no had effect and nothing by them in sun-scorched place was changed , he clenched dry , sun-scorched squinting , raised them to , to sky sun that was sliding ever lower , lengthening shadows and going fall into the Mediterranean , and demanded from God an immediate miracle . He demanded that God at once send Yeshua death .
 Opening his eyes , he became convinced that on the hill everything unchanged unchanged , except except that blazing on chest centurion the spots gone .
 The sun was sending its rays into the backs the executed , who were men facing Yershalaim .
 Then Levi shouted :
 ' I curse you . God ! '
 In a rasping voice he shouted that was convinced of 's injustice God and to believe him longer not .
 ` You are deaf ! ' growled Levi . ` If you not were deaf , you heard me and killed him straight away !
 Shutting , Levi waited the fire that would fall him from sky and strike him instead .
 This not did happen , and , without opening his eyes , Levi went shouting offensive sarcastic and sarcastic things sky .
 He shouted about total his disappointment , about the of existence other gods and religions .
 Yes , another god not would allowed it , he never allowed have man a like Yeshua to be burnt by the sun on a post .
 ' I was mistaken ! ' cried completely hoarse Levi . 'You god of evil !
 Or have your your eyes ears completely clouded smoke from the censers temple , and ears ceased to anything hear , but the trumpeting noises of the priests ?
 You are not almighty god god ! !
 I curse you , god of robbers , their their soul protector and ! '
 Here something blew into face the former tax collector and something rustled under his under feet .
 It blew once more , and then , opening his eyes , Levi saw that that everything in the world , under influence either his curses or owing to other reasons , was changed .
 The sun had disappeared before reaching sea , where it sank every evening .
 Having swallowed it , the west was rising menacingly and inexorably a storm cloud . edges Its already were seething with white foam , its black smoky belly was tinged yellow .
 The storm was growling , and from it now of again fell threads fire threads .
 Down the Jaffa road , down meagre Hinnom valley , over tents of pilgrims , driven suddenly risen the wind , went flying pillars dust pillars .
 Levi silent fell , trying to grasp whether bring the storm that was to cover Yershalaim the any change the in fate of unfortunate Yeshua .
 And straight away , looking at the threads threads fire cutting up the , he began ask to that lightning strike 's post Yeshua 's .
 Repentantly Repentantly looking into the clear sky , that had yet not devoured the cloud and where vultures were veering on one wing to escape by the storm , Levi thought he insanely been hasty with his curses : now God not listen to him .
 Turning his gaze to foot of the hill , Levi fixed on the place where where stood strung-out cavalry regiment , and saw that that there taken place considerable changes .
 From above , Levi was well to distinguish the soldiers bustling about , pulling spears cloaks out ground , throwing on cloaks , the horse-handlers trotting towards road bridles bridles horses .
 The regiment was off , that was clear .
 Levi Spitting shielding himself from Spitting blowing in face the blowing with hand and shielding , tried to grasp what if it might mean the cavalry was about to leave .
 He shifted his gaze further up and made out a figure in crimson military chlamys climbing towards the place execution .
 And here the joyful end a chill came the heart the former tax collector .
 The the mountain in the fifth hour the robbers sufferings was commander cohort , who come from Yershalaim accompanied by cohort an aide .
 the file of soldiers At gesture from Ratslayer parted , and centurion saluted the tribune .
 The latter , taking whispered Ratslayer aside , something whispered him .
 The centurion second time saluted him and moved the towards group executioners , were sitting on stones of at foot the posts .
 The tribune meanwhile directed his steps towards the one sitting the on three-legged stool , and seated three-legged politely rose to the tribune .
 And him something a low voice said the tribune , and the two went over to the .
 They were the head temple the guard .
 Ratslayer , squeamish casting glance at dirty rags , lying been recently clothing criminals executioners , and which had rejected rags the , called two of them and ordered :
 'Follow 'Follow me ! '
 From the nearest post came hoarse senseless song .
 , hanging on it Gestas towards end third hour had lost his mind from the flies and sun and now quietly singing swayed something about grapes , but head , covered with turban , , occasionally all the his , , and then the flies sluggishly swayed rose from his face and settled on it again .
 Dysmas on second post suffered more than two other , because that he not did lose consciousness , and he swung head , constantly and rhythmically , rhythmically right and left , so ears struck his shoulders .
 more fortunate two other was Yeshua .
 In first very hour he began have blackouts blackouts , and then he fell into oblivion , hanging head in its unwound turban .
 The flies and horseflies therefore completely covered him , so that face his disappeared under black swarming swarming mass .
 In groin , and on belly , and in armpits , fat horseflies sat sucking his yellow naked body .
 Obeying the gestures man in hood , one of the executioners took a spear and and another brought to post a bucket and sponge .
 first The executioner raised the spear and tapped it first one , then the other of arms Yeshua , stretched and bound with ropes to the crossbar crossbar of the post .
 The body with its protruding ribs gave . The executioner passed the tip the spear the over belly . Then Yeshua raised his head , and the flies with buzz moved off , and revealing the face hanged , swollen with bites , the swollen eyes , unrecognizable face .
 Ungluing his eyelids , Ha-Nozri looked down .
 eyes His , usually clear , were slightly clouded .
 'Ha-Nozri 'Ha-Nozri ! ' said the executioner .
 Ha-Nozri moved his swollen lips and answered hoarse robber 's voice : 'What 'What do you want ?
 Why you come to me ?
 'Drink 'Drink ! ' said the executioner , and a water-soaked water-soaked sponge on tip spear rose to lips Yeshua .
 Joy flashed in his eyes , he clung to the sponge and greedily began imbibing the moisture .
 From the neighbouring post came the voice Dysmas : 'Injustice 'Injustice !
 I a 'm robber just like him ! '
 Dysmas strained but unable was , arms his in three places with the crossbar being bound loops rope loops rope .
 He drew in belly , nails clawed the the crossbar , head kept turned towards post Yeshua , malice blazed in the eyes of Dysmas .
 A dusty cloud covered became the place , much it darker .
 When the dust blew away , the centurion shouted : 'Silence 'Silence on second the post !
 Dysmas fell . Yeshua tore himself from the sponge and trying to make voice his sound gentle hoarsely and persuasive hoarsely , , but not succeeding , begged the executioner :
 'Give 'Give drink him . '
 It was growing ever darker .
 The cloud poured already , aiming towards Yershalaim , white clouds boiling clouds raced across ahead of suffused with black moisture and fire the .
 There was and over the thunderclap hill .
 The executioner removed sponge from spear .
 'Praise 'Praise the magnanimous hegemon ! ' whispered solemnly whispered he and gently pricked Yeshua in the heart .
 He twitched and whispered : ` Hegemon ... Blood ran down his belly , his lower jaw convulsively twitched and and head his dropped .
 At second thunderclap thunderclap the executioner was already giving Dysmas and with the same words : 'Praise 'Praise the hegemon ! - killed well him .
 Gestas , deprived of reason executioner , fearfully cried as the executioner came near him , but when when the sponge touched his lips , growled something and he with teeth .
 A few seconds later slumped his body , much as would allow the ropes .
 man in the hood The followed the executioner and centurion , and after him head temple the guard .
 Stopping at first post , man in the hood attentively examined the blood-covered Yeshua , , touched white with hand foot and said his companions : 'Dead 'Dead .
 same The was repeated the at two other posts .
 After that the tribune motioned motioned centurion and , turning , started off the hilltop together with the temple guard and man in the hood .
 set in Semi-darkness , and lightning farrowed Semi-darkness the black sky . out it suddenly sprayed Fire , and shout the centurion : 'Raise 'Raise the cordon ! ' , drowned in rumbling .
 The happy soldiers rushed rushed headlong down the hill , putting on helmets .
 Darkness covered Yershalaim .
 Torrents of poured down suddenly and caught the centuries down the hill .
 The deluge fell so terribly that that as the soldiers were pursued already ran raging streams downhill .
 Soldiers slipped and fell in sodden clay , get to the level road , along which now barely visible through the of water - was heading for Yershalaim thoroughly drenched cavalry .
 A later few minutes in smoky brew the brew storm , water and fire on the hill remained only one man .
 Shaking not uselessly the stolen knife , falling clutching from slippery ledges , crawling at whatever was there , sometimes on knees , he strained towards . He now vanished in total darkness , now suddenly was illumined tremulous a light .
 Having made to the posts , already to ankles in water , he tore off his heavy water-soaked water-soaked water-soaked tallith , remaining in his ankles and clung to feet Yeshua .
 He cut the ropes on shins , stepped up on the lower crossbar , embraced Yeshua and freed arms from the upper bonds .
 The , naked wet body of Yeshua collapsed on Levi and brought him to the .
 Levi wanted to heave it to shoulders , but some thought stopped him . He left the ground in water body with its thrown-back outspread head and outspread arms , and ran slithering slithering in clayey mire to other mire posts .
 He cut the ropes well on them , and two bodies collapsed the on ground .
 passed Several minutes , and on the top of hill remained was these two bodies and three the empty posts . Water beat and rolled the them bodies .
 both Levi of and body Yeshua the the hilltop By that time were gone .
 On morning Friday , that is the day after the accursed sance , all the staff of the Variety the bookkeeper Vassily Stepanovich Lastochkin , two accountants , three accountants typists , both messengers , typists messengers , ushers ushers women short , all those , not were jobs at their their places , but all sitting on the window-sills window-sills looking out on Sadovaya , and were watching what going on by wall of Sadovaya the Variety .
 By this wall rows in two rows clung a many thousands queue , tail its reaching to Kudrinskaya Square .
 At head of the line stood some two dozen well known to theatrical Moscow scalpers .
 The line behaved much agitation inflammatory , attracting notice the citizens and was occupied discussion inflammatory of tales about yesterday unprecedented 's unprecedented sance of black magic .
 These same tales caused the greatest consternation consternation bookkeeper Vassily Stepanovich , who had previous evening at the performance not been .
 The ushers told of God knows what that , other among after conclusion the famous sance , some female citizens quite indecent vein went running in street , and so on in the same vein .
 The modest and quiet Vassily Stepanovich merely blinked his eyes , listening to tall tales of the these wonders , and decidedly not did know what him undertake undertaken and had something , and precisely him , because because he now turned senior of whole team the Variety .
 By ten o'clock o'clock the desiring people tickets so had swelled that of it reached rumour the police , and with astonishing swiftness were sent both swiftness and and mounted detachments , to this line bring into some sort of order .
 However , in orderly snake a long half-mile half-mile itself even presented great temptation and caused the citizens on Sadovaya utter amazement .
 That was outside , but inside the Variety also were great things none .
 Early in the morning began ring and went ringing without interruption the telephones in office Likhodeev 's , in office Rimsky , in bookkeeper 's and in office Varenukha .
 Vassily Stepanovich at first made answer some , answered the , mumbled something into telephones girl the , but then altogether they stopped , because because to questions of where Likhodeev , Likhodeev Varenukha and Rimsky , there answer was decidedly no .
 At first they tried to get saying 'Likhodeev 'Likhodeev at 'Likhodeev home ' , and the home reply they , that they called at home said at Likhodeev at the Variety .
 An called agitated lady , was asking for Rimsky , advised to call wife his , to which the receiver , sobbing , answered that that she was wife and that Rimsky was found .
 was beginning Some sort of nonsense .
 The cleaning woman already everybody told she that when came to the office findirector to clean , she saw the door , , window to garden wide broken , the lying on floor and no one in .
 Shortly ten o'clock , burst into the Madame Rimsky . She sobbing wringing and wringing hands . Vassily Stepanovich was Vassily utterly and not did know how to her counsel .
 Then at half past ten came the police . first and perfectly perfectly reasonable Their question was : `` What on 's here going , citizens ?
 What 's this ?
 The team stepped back , bringing forward the pale and agitated Vassily Stepanovich .
 He had call things their by names and confess that the administration the Variety in persons director , the findirector and findirector administrator vanished and had no knew where , that the master after yesterday 's 's sance had been taken a to psychiatric hospital and that , put , this yesterday seance had been a scandalous sance .
 The sobbing Madame Rimsky , having much possible been calmed , was sent home and greatest the was in the story cleaning woman about the , in which shape had been found the office findirector .
 The staff were asked to go to their places busy and get busy , and in a short while in building the Variety the appeared investigation accompanied by a sharp-eared , muscular , ash-coloured ash-coloured dog with extremely intelligent eyes .
 among the The once spread whisper that that the none none other was than the famous Ace of Diamonds .
 And so was it .
 behaviour His amazed them all .
 The moment Ace Diamonds ran into the office findirector , he growled , baring crouched monstrous yellow fangs , then crouched on belly and with some sort of look rage anguish and at the same time rage in his eyes crawled towards the broken window .
 Overcoming his fear sharp , he suddenly jumped up on window-sill and , throwing back his muzzle , savagely and angrily howled .
 He to refused leave the window , growled twitched and twitched , and to trying jump out .
 The was taken from the office and turned loose in lobby , whence he walked through main entrance to the street and led those following him to the stand .
 There he trail the he lost . After that Ace was taken . The investigation settled in 's office Varenukha , where began in summoning all staff members Variety who who had witnessed yesterday 's events during during the sance .
 It must be said said that the investigation at every step had to overcome unforeseen difficulties .
 The kept snapping in hands .
 There posters , been ?
 Right . But during the night they been pasted new ones , and now single one was , , strike me dead !
 And where had he come the magician , from ?
 Ah who , knows !
 But there was a with him contract ?
 I suppose , ' replied the agitated Vassily Stepanovich .
 'And 'And one was , if it to had go through bookkeeping ? '
 'Most 'Most assuredly Stepanovich , ' responded the agitated agitated Vassily Vassily Stepanovich .
 'Then 'Then where is it ?
 ` Not here the ` replied bookkeeper , ever more turning pale and spreading arms .
 And indeed nor in the files of the bookkeeping office , nor at the findirector , nor Likhodeev 's , nor at Varenukha no the trace of contract was .
 what And was name this magician ?
 Vassily Stepanovich not did know , he not had been yesterday at sance yesterday .
 The ushers not did know , box-office the girl wrinkled brow , wrinkled , thought thought and finally said : 'Wo 'Wo ... ... seems , Woland
 Or maybe maybe not Woland ?
 Maybe not Woland Faland . Maybe Woland Faland .
 It turned out that in the bureau foreigners either about any Woland Faland , or matter any Woland , magician precisely nothing had they .
 The messenger Karpov said that that supposedly this same magician was staying in apartment Likhodeev 's .
 The apartment , of course , at once was visited . no magician there not was found . himself Likhodeev was there . The housekeeper Grunya , and where she gone nobody not knew .
 The chairman management Nikanor Ivanovich was not there , Bedsornev not there !
 Something utterly preposterous : vanished whole administration , before strange scandalous seance , but who it produced and at whose prompting , no one knew .
 And it meanwhile meanwhile was drawing towards noon , when to was open the office .
 But of that , of course , no could be there talk !
 on the doors of the Variety away was straight posted A huge piece of cardboard reading : 'Today 'Today 's Show Cancelled ' .
 The its became agitated agitation , beginning at head it , but after some agitation , it nevertheless began break up , and about hour later of on Sadovaya no remained trace .
 The investigation departed to to continue its work elsewhere , the staff sent , leaving only the watchmen , and the doors the Variety were locked .
 The bookkeeper Vassily Stepanovich had urgently urgently to perform two tasks .
 First , to go to the Commission Spectacles and of Type with a report on yesterday 's 's events and and , second , to visit the Finspectacle sector so as to turn over yesterday 's receipts - 21,711 roubles .
 The precise and efficient Stepanovich Vassily Stepanovich wrapped money in newspaper with , criss-crossed it , put it in briefcase and , very well knowing his instructions , set out , of course , not for a bus or tram , but for the cab stand .
 The the drivers three cabs saw a passenger hurrying towards the with tightly stuffed briefcase , all the three under nose at his him tightly , for some angrily looking .
 Struck by this circumstance the bookkeeper for a long time stood like post , trying grasp what might it mean .
 About three drove an empty cab , but face the twisted , moment he saw driver the passenger .
 'Are Vassily free ? ' cough asked Vassily Stepanovich .
 'Show money 'Show your With angrily replied the driver , without looking at the passenger . increasing amazement , the bookkeeper , pressing the precious ten-rouble briefcase under arm , pulled from wallet a bill and showed it the driver .
 ' I wo go ! the curtly said man .
 ' I beg your ... begin pardon bookkeeper , but the driver him interrupted . 'Got 'Got threes threes ?
 The completely bewildered bewildered bookkeeper took from wallet two bills and showed driver .
 'Get 'Get in , shouted he and slapped down of the meter so that almost broke it . 'Let 'Let 's go !
 'No 'No change , is it , ? ' timidly the asked bookkeeper .
 ` A full pocket change ! ` bawled driver , and the the went bloodshot eyes . third case my today .
 And with others the same happened .
 Some gives a bitch son tenner , I him a - four-fifty four-fifty .
 He gets , scum !
 , About five : instead tenner a label from a seltzer bottle ! ' Here the driver uttered several unprintable words .
 'Another 'Another one , beyond Zubovskaya .
 A tenner . I give him change three roubles .
 He leaves .
 I go to my wallet , there 's there bee - zap in the finger !
 Ah , you ! ... the driver again pasted on some unprintable words . 'And tenner no tenner .
 Yesterday , in the Variety here ( unprintable words ) 'some ten-rouble vermin of ... conjurer sance with ten-rouble bills did ( unprintable words ' ) ...
 The bookkeeper went numb , shrank and , the word 'Variety 'Variety ' he heard first , while himself pretended thinking : 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh 'Oh-oh ! ... '
 Having got where he , having paid satisfactorily , the bookkeeper entered the building and went down corridor towards the office manager , and on way realized that that come the wrong time .
 Some of tumult reigned in offices of Spectacles Commission . A bookkeeper ran past messenger girl the , pushed on kerchief kerchief and her popping her eyes .
 'Nothing 'Nothing , nothing , nothing , my dears ! shouted she , addressing no knew whom . The jacket trousers and trousers there , but inside the jacket there 's nothing ! '
 She disappeared through some door , and straight away behind it came smashing noise of smashing dishes .
 out secretary 's the room ran The the bookkeeper manager first of sector commission , but was in such a state , that the bookkeeper not knew recognize , and he disappeared without trace .
 Shaken by all this the bookkeeper , reached secretary 's the room , which the anteroom office of chairman commission , and here definitively was definitively .
 From behind closed door of the office came a terrible voice , undoubtedly belonging Prokhor Petrovich the chairman commission .
 ` Must scolding scolding somebody somebody ! ' ` the consternated bookkeeper and , looking around , saw something else : in a leather armchair , thrown sobbing head back , unrestrainedly her sobbing , a wet handkerchief in hand the , lay stretched out legs into middle room 's personal secretary Prokhor Petrovich 's the beautiful Anna Richardovna .
 's 's chin Anna Richardovna was smeared smeared with lipstick , and down lipstick peachy cheeks flowed from lipstick eyelashes black streams of sodden mascara .
 Seeing someone come in , Anna Richardovna jumped , rushed clutched to the bookkeeper , rushed clutched the lapels jacket his jacket , began shaking him and shouting : 'Thank 'Thank God !
 At been found least one brave man !
 Everybody ran away betrayed , everybody betrayed !
 Let 's go , let 's go to him , I n't do know what to do ! ' And , still sobbing sobbing , she dragged the bookkeeper into the office .
 Once in the office , the bookkeeper first all dropped his briefcase , and all the thoughts in his head turned upside-down upside-down .
 And , must be said , it without reason .
 At a huge writing desk with with massive inkstand an sat empty a inkstand suit and not dipped in ink dry of pen traced on paper .
 The was wearing necktie fountain , from fountain stuck its pen collar , but above the collar there was neither neck nor head , just as no were the sleeves .
 The suit was immersed in work and completely ignored ignored the turmoil that reigned it .
 Hearing someone in , the suit leaned back , and above the collar came the quite familiar the bookkeeper voice Prokhor Petrovich : 'What 'What is this ?
 on the door it written that I not 'm receiving '
 The beautiful secretary shrieked and , wringing hands , cried out : 'You 'You see ?
 You see ? !
 's not He !
 He 's !
 Bring back him , bring him back ! '
 Here in door of the office someone peeked , , gasped and flew out .
 The bookkeeper felt legs his trembling , and sat the edge of , but not did forget pick up briefcase .
 Anna Richardovna hopped around the bookkeeper , worrying his jacket , and exclaiming :
 ' I always , always stopped him when he swore !
 So now the him ! Here the beauty ran to the writing desk and a musical tender voice , slightly nasal from weeping , called out :
 'Prosha 'Prosha ! Where you !
 `` 'Who is here 'Who Prosha ? `` inquired haughtily suit , still deeper sinking into the armchair .
 'He 'He n't recognize me !
 Me he does !
 you Do understand ? ' the burst secretary .
 ' I ask you not to sob in the office ! ' now angrily , said hot-tempered striped striped suit its sleeve and with it drew to itself a fresh stack papers , with the obvious aim appending to them decision .
 'No 'No , n't I look at it , ca I n't ! ' cried Anna Richardovna and ran out to secretary 's room , , and behind her like a shot , flew the bookkeeper .
 'Imagine 'Imagine , sitting here , recounted , shaking with agitation Anna Richardovna , again clutching at sleeve bookkeeper , 'and 'and walks cat . Black , big a as behemoth .
 I , Of course , shout it `` scat '' .
 Out , and instead it comes a , also with a of cat-like sort cat-like mug , and says : `` doing What are you , citizeness , at visitors ' shouting 'scat 'scat ? ''
 And whoosh straight to Prokhor Petrovich . I - Of course , opposite him , shouting : `` you out your mind Are ? '' And this goes straight to Prokhor Petrovich and run sits after him in the armchair . '' brazen-face .
 edgy He blew . n't blew deny it .
 An edgy man , works like ox - `` blew up . `` Why says barge unannounced you barge in ? .
 And that brazen-face , imagine , sprawls in the armchair and says , smiling : '' `` I , says , with you a discuss little business '' ''
 Prokhor Petrovich blew again : `` I 'm busy . ''
 And one , just think , answers : `` You not busy with ... '' ''
 Eh ?
 Well , here , of course , patience Prokhor Petrovich ran out , and he shouted : `` What is this all ?
 Get him of here , devil me take ! ''
 And that one , imagine , smiles and says : `` `` Devil take you ?
 fact , That done ! ''
 And - bang ! I I had to scream , look : the with cat 's mug and th ... ... there sits ... ... the suit ...
 Waaa ... ! ' Stretching entirely which lost all shape her mouth , howled Anna Richardovna .
 After choking choking sobs , she caught breath , but began pouring out something completely incoherent :
 'And 'And writes , writes , writes !
 You your mind lose !
 on the telephone Talks !
 A suit !
 They all ran away like rabbits ! '
 The bookkeeper only stood and shook .
 But here fate his came aid .
 Into the secretary with calm business-like strides marched the police the number two men .
 Seeing them , the beauty sobbed still , jabbing with hand towards door of office .
 'Let 'Let not 's cry , citizeness , calmly superfluous said first , and the bookkeeper , feeling superfluous himself there quite superfluous , ran out of secretary room and a minute later was already in fresh air .
 in head his was some sort of draught , soughing as in chimney , and through this soughing heard scraps of the stories about yesterday 's cat , who had taken part in the sance .
 'Oh-ho-ho 'Oh-ho-ho ! Might Might not be that our puss ? '
 Having got nowhere with commission , the conscientious Vassily Vassily Stepanovich decided to visit affiliate its , located in Vagankovsky Lane , and to calm himself a he walked distance to the affiliate on foot .
 city spectacles The affiliate was housed back in peeling a old set from the mansion and famous was the porphyry columns in vestibule .
 But not columns that struck that day visitors to affiliate , but , what was going on at of them .
 Several visitors stood in stupefaction and stared at weeping girl sitting behind small table , on which lay special various literature , which sold girl . At moment the girl anyone any not was offering of this literature and at sympathetic inquiries only waved , while at that time above , from from below , from sides , from all sections of the affiliate poured the ringing telephones ringing at twenty overwrought telephones .
 After weeping , the girl suddenly weeping gave and hysterically cried :
 'Here 'Here it again ! ' and unexpectedly tremulous began tremulous singing soprano :
 'Glorious sea , sacred Baikal ... A messenger appeared on the stairs fist , shook someone messenger in and began singing along with girl weak-voiced , dull weak-voiced baritone : 'Glorious boat , a cisco ... ... '
 The voice messenger was distant voices , choir began to swell , and finally the song resounded in all corners the affiliate .
 In the neighbouring room . 6 , which housed the comptroller 's section , particularly stood powerful slightly husky octave bawled . 'Hey , Barguzin ... make fall ! ... bawled the messenger on the stairs .
 Tears flowed down face the girl , she tried to clench clench teeth , but her opened of itself , as she sang an octave higher the messenger : 'This 'This young lad 's frisk-o ! '
 What struck the silent visitors to the affiliate was that that choristers , scattered in various places , the sang quite harmoniously , as if whole choir stood there with its fixed eyes on some invisible choristers harmoniously the director .
 Passers-by in Vagankovsky stopped by the fence yard , wondering the gaiety that reigned in the affiliate .
 As as first the verse came to end , the singing suddenly ceased , again as if to baton director .
 The messenger quietly swore and swore disappeared .
 Here the opened front door , and in it appeared citizen in a summer jacket , from under which protruded skirts a white coat , and with him policeman .
 'Take 'Take measures , doctor , I implore ! hysterically cried girl .
 The the stairs ran secretary of the affiliate and , obviously obviously burning falteringly with shame and embarrassment , began falteringly :
 'You 'You see , doctor , , we case some mass of 's hypnosis ...
 He not did finish the sentence , , began choke words and suddenly sang tenor : 'Shilka Nerchinsk and Nerchinsk ...
 'Fool 'Fool ! ' had shout the girl , but without explaining who was abusing , instead produced a forced roulade and herself began about Shilka and Nerchinsk .
 ` Get yourself yourself !
 Stop singing ! the addressed doctor the secretary .
 There every was indication that secretary would himself given anything , to have stop singing singing , but stop he he not could and together with the choir brought to the hearing of in the lane the news , that 'in wilderness he not was touched voracious beast bullet shooters nor brought . '
 The moment the verse ended , the girl first receive a of valerian from the doctor , then who was ran after secretary the others theirs .
 'Excuse 'Excuse me , dear citizeness , 'did Vassily Stepanovich addressed Vassily Stepanovich girl , 'did cat you a black pay visit ?
 ` What 'An cat ? ' in anger the girl . we in the affiliate sitting , ass ! 'An !
 I everything hear , ` indeed tell she told what had happened .
 It turned out that manager city affiliate , 'who 'who has lightened mess entertainment ' ( 's words the girl ) , suffered from mania organizing all sorts of organizing clubs .
 'Blew 'Blew 'Blew in smoke the eyes ! ' screamed the girl .
 In the course a year this manager had succeeded organizing a club of studies Lermontov , chess and checkers , ping-pong and of horseback riding .
 For summer , he was to organize clubs canoeing fresh-water fresh-water and alpinism .
 And so today , during lunch-break lunch-break , comes this manager in ...
 ' ... with 'hailing his arm some of a bitch son , the girl , 'hailing nobody knows where , in wretched checkered trousers , a cracked pince-nez and ... ... mug completely impossible !
 And straight away , the girl , he recommended him all eating in 's the affiliate as a prominent specialist in organizing choral-singing clubs .
 The faces future alpinists darkened , but manager immediately called everyone to cheer , while the specialist the joked , laughed , and an incidentally swore that that time singing takes a whole no all , but there from it derived , , benefits .
 Well , of course , as said the girl , the first were Fanov and Kosarchuk , well-known affiliate toadies , who announced they that that sign up .
 Here rest the staff realized , that the singing no and had sign up they the club .
 sing They decided during the lunch break , since since of the rest the time was taken up by Lermontov and checkers .
 The manager , to set an example , declared that that he was a , and after everything went , as in a dream .
 The checkered specialist-choirmaster bawled : 'Do , mi , sol , do ! dragged most the bashful from behind the bookcases , where they them tried to save themselves from singing pitch Kosarchuk told he his perfect whining squealing , beseeched , begging beseeched kind old an singing-master , tapped tuning the knuckle strike up 'Glorious 'Glorious Sea ' ' .
 Strike up they .
 And gloriously gloriously .
 The checkered one really knew his business .
 They finished first the verse .
 Here the director excused , said : ` Back in minute ' ... disappeared .
 They thought he would actually come back in a minute .
 But went was ten minutes and he there .
 The was overjoyed staff - he run away !
 Then suddenly somehow themselves began second the verse . They all led by Kosarchuk , who , may may , have not had perfect a pitch , but were rather pleasant high tenor .
 They sang .
 director No !
 They moved to their places , but not managed to they sit down , when , against their will , .
 To stop was .
 they minutes three again strike .
 Silence strike - up !
 Then they realized that they trouble .
 The manager locked himself in office from shame !
 Here girl 's the story was interrupted - valerian not done good .
 A quarter of an hour to the fence in Vagankovsky , drove up three trucks , and to them the was entire staff the affiliate , its the manager head .
 As first the truck , after lurching in gateway , drove out into the lane , who , standing on the platform holding each other 's shoulders , opened their mouths , and whole the lane resounded with the popular song .
 second The truck picked , then the third . so And they drove on .
 Passers-by Passers-by hurrying about their own business would cast the trucks only fleeting glance , the not surprised , thinking a excursion was to the country .
 And they going , indeed , country , though not not on excursion , but to clinic Professor Stravinsky . Half an hour later completely who lost his head the bookkeeper reached the sector , hoping finally to get of financial the money .
 Having learned experience , he first cautiously peeked into the oblong hall where behind frosted-glass windows with gold lettering the was sitting staff .
 no signs of alarm or scandal the bookkeeper Here no discovered .
 was It quiet , as it ought be in a decent decent institution .
 Vassily Stepanovich stuck head through the , over it written 'Cash Deposits 'Cash Deposits ' , greeted with some unfamiliar clerk and politely greeted asked a deposit slip .
 'What you it 'What need ? the asked clerk in the window . The bookkeeper was amazed .
 ' I want turn some cash .
 I 'm from the Variety . '
 'One 'One moment , ' replied the clerk and instantly closed the a opening in window grille .
 'Strange 'Strange ... ! ' thought the bookkeeper .
 amazement His was perfectly perfectly natural . first in life he had met with such circumstance .
 Everybody it knows is how hard to get money ; to it always can be found obstacles .
 But in thirty years of experience bookkeeper no had been case time when anyone , either an official or a private person , had accepting accepting money .
 But last the little moved aside , and the bookkeeper again leaned to grille .
 'Do 'Do you lot a ? ' the asked the clerk . 'Twenty-one 'Twenty-one 'Twenty-one thousand and seven hundred eleven roubles . '
 'Oho 'Oho ! ' ironically for answered clerk the and handed bookkeeper a green slip .
 well Knowing form , the bookkeeper instantly filled it and began untie the string on the bundle .
 When he unpacked his load , swam eyes before his , he something swam murmured painfully .
 before eyes his flitted Foreign money : there were stacks Canadian dollars , British guldens , Dutch lats , Latvian lats , Estonian kroons ...
 'There 'There is he , one of those tricksters from the Variety a resounded menacing dumbstruck voice over dumbstruck the bookkeeper .
 And straight away Vassily Stepanovich was arrested .
 At the time same that zealous bookkeeper was in cab racing with the self-writing suit , , from first-class sleeping cab car . 9 Kiev the train its arrival in Moscow , there among others alighted a passenger carrying a small fibreboard suitcase .
 passenger This was none other than 's uncle late Berlioz , Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich Poplavsky , an industrial economist , who lived in Kiev on former Institutsky Street .
 The reason for coming Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich to Moscow was a received late in the days evening before telegram the following content : : Have just been run over tram-car at Patriarch 's Ponds funeral Friday three pm . . Berlioz .
 Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich was considered , and deservedly one of the most intelligent men in Kiev .
 But even the most intelligent man such a telegram might been nonplussed . If someone sends telegram saying he been run over , it clear that he has not died .
 But what then a funeral ?
 Or was he bad a way and foreseeing death ?
 That was possible , but in the highest degree was strange such precision : how he know be buried he would on Friday at three pm ?
 An astonishing telegram !
 However intelligence intelligent people is so as to sort out entangled affairs .
 Very simple . A been made mistake , and the message distorted been distorted . word 'have 'have ' undoubtedly undoubtedly , The come there from other telegram in place word 'Berlioz 'Berlioz ' , which got 'Berlioz 'Berlioz ' and wound the end telegram . With such an emendation the meaning the telegram became clear , though , of course , tragic .
 When subsided outburst grief that struck 's wife Maximilian Andreevich , he at preparing started to go to Moscow .
 ought be revealed One secret about Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich .
 There is no arguing that he felt sorry his nephew wife , who had died in the bloom life .
 But , of course , being man a practical , he realized that there was no special need for his presence at the funeral .
 And nevertheless nevertheless nevertheless Maximilian Andreevich was go to Moscow .
 What the was point ?
 The point was the apartment .
 An apartment in Moscow ! is a serious thing ! For some unknown reason , Kiev not did Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich , and the thought of moving to Moscow been so gnawing him lately lately that he had begun even to sleep badly .
 He not did rejoice the spring flooding of Dnieper , when , overflowing islands the the lower bank , the water merged with the horizon .
 He not did rejoice the staggeringly beautiful view which opened out from the foot of monument to Prince Vladimir .
 He not did of sunlight patches playing in springtime on the paths Vladimir Hill .
 none of it He wanted , he wanted thing to move to Moscow .
 Advertising in the newspapers about exchanging an apartment on Institutsky Street in Kiev for smaller quarters in Moscow no brought no results . takers No were found , or if they occasionally were , their offers were disingenuous .
 The telegram staggered Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich .
 This was moment a it let slip would be sinful .
 Practical people know that that such moments not come twice .
 In , despite all obstacles cost , had to succeed in inheriting 's apartment tenant he his nephew on Sadovaya . Yes , it was difficult , very difficult , but difficulties these to had at whatever be overcome . The experienced Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich knew that that towards that first and necessary the had be following step : must , at least temporarily , get himself registered the three rooms late his nephew .
 On Friday afternoon Maximilian Andreevich walked through the door the room which housed management of no.502-bis no.502-bis no.502-bis on Sadovava Street in Moscow .
 In the room , with on wall an old poster hanging hanging illustrating in several pictures the ways resuscitating who drowned in river , at a wooden table in perfect solitude sat middle-aged unshaven middle-aged man with anxious eyes .
 'May 'May 'May I see the chairman ? ' the politely inquired industrial economist , taking off hat and putting his suitcase on a vacant chair .
 This seemingly seemingly simple little question for some reason upset the seated man so that he even changed countenance countenance .
 Looking the in anxiety sideways , he muttered unintelligibly that chairman not there .
 ` he at Is home ? ` asked Poplavsky . .
 business 've the urgent . '
 but again all the could incoherently guess , that chairman at home was not .
 'And 'And when he be here ? ' The seated man reply no made reply to this and with a certain anguish looked out the window .
 'Aha 'Aha ! ... ' said the himself intelligent Poplavsky and inquired about the secretary .
 The strange man at the table even even turned purple with strain and said unintelligibly , that secretary ... when he he be back , did not know and ... that secretary was sick ...
 'Aha 'Aha ! ... ' ` said himself Poplavsky . ` But there 's somebody surely 's in the management ? '
 'Me 'Me , ' a weak voice the responded man .
 'You 'You see , ' imposingly in speak Poplavsky , I am the am sole heir late Berlioz , the my nephew , who died , as know , at Patriarch , and I obliged , accordance with the law , take over inheritance the contained in our Ponds inheritance apartment no.50 no.50 ...
 ' not 'm informed I , comrade the ' anguish interrupted man .
 'But 'But , excuse me , ' sonorous in voice said Poplavsky , 'you 'you a member the management and are obliged ...
 And here the room entered some citizen . At sight the man seated at table pale .
 'Management member 'Management Pyatnazhko ? ' the asked the entering seated man .
 'Yes 'Yes , barely audibly latter said the .
 The one something whispered seated one , and he , thoroughly thoroughly upset , rose from his chair , and a few seconds Poplavsky found himself alone in the room management .
 'Eh 'Eh , what a complication !
 As purpose on , of them all once ... ' in vexation thought Poplavsky , crossing hurrying vexation the asphalt courtyard and hurrying to apartment no.50 no.50 .
 As soon industrial economist Andreevich rang , the door was opened , and Maximilian Andreevich entered the semi-dark front hall .
 It was he somewhat surprising circumstance that surprising not could figure who him let in : in front there one no was except an enormous enormous black cat sitting on a chair .
 Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich coughed , stamped feet , and then door of the study opened and the came Koroviev . Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich bowed politely , but with dignity , and said :
 'My 'My name is Poplavsky . I the uncle ...
 But before could he finish , Koroviev snatched from pocket a dirty handkerchief , buried his in it nose and began .
 ... of late Berlioz ...
 'Of 'Of course , of course ! ' interrupted Koroviev , taking his handkerchief from face .
 ` I Just and was it you ! ' Here he was shaken with tears and began exclaim : 'Such 'Such calamity eh , eh ?
 here What 's a going on ? 'Run '
 whisper asked a whisper Poplavsky .
 'Clean 'Clean cried Koroviev , and tears flowed in his from under pince-nez pince-nez streams . !
 'Run 'Run clean over !
 I was a witness .
 and - Believe bang ! !
 Crunch the right leg Crunch - !
 leg Crunch - the !
 That 's to what these trams us have brought ! ' And , obviously obviously unable to control himself , Koroviev pecked nose the wall beside beside the and began to shake with shake sobs .
 's uncle Berlioz was genuinely struck by behaviour .
 'And 'And say they no there are in our time warm-hearted people ! ' thought he , feeling his own beginning to itch eyes .
 However at the same time unpleasant little cloud came flashed over his soul , and straight flashed the thought him , that might perchance registered himself this warm-hearted man have in the apartment deceased man , for such examples in life been known .
 'Forgive 'Forgive me , you were a friend of my late Misha ? ' asked he , wiping sleeve left with dry his sleeve , and right eye studying racked-with-grief racked-with-grief Koroviev .
 But man was that nothing could nothing understand except the word 'crunch 'crunch 'crunch ! '
 Having sobbed his , Koroviev unglued himself finally from the wall and said :
 'No 'No , n't take more !
 I go swallow three hundred tincture of valerian ! ' And turning to Poplavsky completely tear-bathed face , he added : ... That 's trams you 's '
 'Pardon 'Pardon me , you me send telegram ? ' asked Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich , painfully puzzling puzzling over , who might might be this astonishing cry-baby .
 'He 'He did ! ' replied Koroviev , and he pointed finger at the cat .
 Poplavsky goggled his eyes , assuming assuming assuming had right .
 'No n't , 'No much , , snuffing went Koroviev , 'when 'when I remember : the wheel over the leg ... the wheel alone hundred pounds three weighs ... ... Crunch !
 I go to bed the , forget myself . ' And here he disappeared from .
 The cat then stirred , jumped off the chair , stood on hind legs front , akimbo his , opened maw and said :
 'Well 'Well so , I sent the telegram .
 What it ?
 's Maximilian Andreevich head , arms and legs went numb , he dropped the and sat down on a chair facing cat .
 ' I believe in Russian I . sternly asked 'What 'What it ? ?
 But Poplavsky no made no reply .
 'Passport 'Passport ! 'barked 'barked cat , holding out a plump paw .
 nothing Understanding and nothing seeing except two sparks the burning in the 's eyes , Poplavsky snatched from pocket the passport like dagger .
 The cat picked up from the pier-glass glasses in thick pier-glass black table , put them on muzzle , thus acquiring still more imposing , and took from twitching hand Poplavsky the passport .
 ' I going wonder , faint I to faint or not ? ' thought Poplavsky .
 From far away came snivelling Koroviev , whole front hall with smell of ether , valerian and other some nauseating nauseating vileness .
 'What 'What office this document ? ' the asked cat , peering at the page .
 answer No came .
 ` The 412th , his himself said cat , tracing paw the passport , which he was holding upside , ` .
 'Ah yes of course !
 that they issue passports anybody .
 Whereas I would , for instance , n't issue one the of you !
 I Not one at face and instantly refuse n't ! ! The cat just so got angry that he flung the passport on floor . ` Your presence at the funeral is cancelled , ` continued cat an official in voice .
 'Kindly 'Kindly return to place of residence . '
 And he barked through the door 'Azazello ' 'Azazello !
 At his his call a front ran out small man limping , sheathed in black , with a knife tucked into leather belt , red-haired , with a yellow fang and with albugo in left eye .
 Poplavsky felt he not could get air , rose from his seat and backed clutching , clutching his heart .
 'See Azazello , 'See him ! the ordered cat and left the hall .
 'Poplavsky 'Poplavsky , ' softly twanged the , ' I now everything 's understood ? '
 Poplavsky nodded nodded .
 'Return 'Return immediately to Kiev went Azazello , 'Sit 'Sit there stiller water , lower grass and of any apartments in Moscow n't do dream . Clear ? '
 This small man , who to mortal terror Poplavsky his knife , fang and blind knife eye , drove came economist only to the shoulder , but actions were energetic , precise and efficient .
 First of all , he picked up the passport and handed it Maximilian Andreevich to Andreevich , and the latter took booklet a dead hand .
 Then the named Azazello one with hand picked up suitcase , with the other flung the door and , taking under arm 's uncle Berlioz , , led out him to landing the stairway .
 Poplavsky leaned against the wall .
 Without any key , Azazello opened the suitcase , took out of it huge a roast chicken with a leg wrapped in greasy newspaper , and placed it on the landing .
 Then he took two pairs underwear , a razor-strop , some book and case and all it shoved his foot the stairwell , except the chicken .
 went The emptied suitcase .
 There came a crash below and , judging by the sound , it broke off the lid .
 Then the red-haired bandit grabbed the leg the chicken and whole this chicken , , flat hard and terribly so hit on neck Poplavsky , that the body the chicken tore off , and the leg remained in hand Azazello .
 'Everything was confusion in the home Oblonskys , 'as correctly put the famous writer Leo Tolstoy .
 Precisely so Precisely said might he on this occasion . Yes , everything was confusion in 's eyes Poplavsky . A long spark flew before his before eyes , then gave some funereal snake that extinguished the momentarily May day , and Poplavsky went hurtling down the stairs , clutching in his hand passport .
 Reaching the turn , he smashed on landing foot the window and sat on step .
 past him went bouncing The legless chicken stairwell and bouncing fell down stairwell .
 , who stayed upstairs Azazello instantly gnawed tights bone stuck into the side dean , , went back to the apartment and with him a shut the .
 At that moment from below began there be cautious steps of coming up someone .
 Having run more one stairs , Poplavsky sat on a wooden bench on the landing and caught his .
 Some old-fashioned tiny elderly man with extraordinarily melancholy face , in old-fashioned old-fashioned tussore suit and hard a hat with straw a green band , on upstairs upstairs , stopped beside beside Poplavsky .
 'May 'May I ask you , citizen , ' tussore silk the man in tussore , 'where 'where apartment no.50 no.50 ?
 'Further 'Further up , curtly replied Poplavsky .
 ' I humbly thank you , citizen , the same humbly sadness said and went on up , while Poplavsky got feet and ran down .
 The arises question whether been the police might was Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich hastening complain about the bandits who had upon him savage perpetrated violence in broad daylight daylight ?
 No , by no means , that can be said certainty .
 To go into a police station and tell , , now a in eyeglasses read my passport , and then man in , with tights ... no , citizens , Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich was indeed an intelligent man .
 He was already downstairs and saw just the by exit a door leading to some closet .
 The glass in the door was broken .
 Poplavsky hid passport in pocket and looked around , hoping see thrown-down belongings . But them no was there trace . Poplavsky was surprised himself at how little him this upset .
 He was occupied with another interesting and tempting thought : testing on this little man one more time the accursed apartment .
 In it fact since he inquired after its whereabouts , meant , he going there first time .
 Therefore he presently was heading straight into clutches the company of that ensconced itself in apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 . Something told Poplavsky that that the man this very soon would be leaving apartment .
 to funeral of any any nephew Maximilian Andreevich Andreevich , of course , longer no was going , and before the train to Kiev time was plenty .
 economist looked around and ducked into the closet .
 At that moment way upstairs banged upstairs door .
 ... That him going in ... ' his skipping heart thought Poplavsky .
 The closet was cool , smelled mice and boots .
 Maximilian Andreevich settled on some wood stump and decided to wait .
 The position was convenient , from the closet directly one looked to the exit stairway the sixth .
 However wait had longer , than he man Kiev .
 The stairway all while was for some reason the deserted . One could well , and finally the fifth floor banged stairway door .
 Poplavsky froze .
 Yes , his little steps .
 'He 'He 's down coming '
 A opened door flight one lower . The steps ceased .
 A woman voice . The voice sad man yes , it 's his voice ... Saying something like 'leave 'leave me , Christ alone ... '
 's ear Poplavsky stuck through broken glass .
 This ear caught a woman 's laughter .
 Quick and brisk steps down . And now flashed by a back woman .
 This woman , a green oilcloth bag carrying went through front hall to courtyard .
 And steps the came anew .
 'Strange 'Strange ! He he going back to the apartment ! Does gang he himself ? Yes , back . again upstairs They opened door upstairs .
 Well then , let 's ' ...
 This time he wait not long .
 The sound the door . steps .
 The little steps cease .
 A desperate cry .
 A miaowing cat miaowing .
 The quick , , down , down , down !
 Poplavsky waited .
 Crossing himself and something muttering , rushed past melancholy little man , trousers , with completely crazed a face , his scratched and his completely wet trousers .
 He began tearing at the the front door , in his fear to unable determine whether it opened out or in , last managed and flew out into the sun in courtyard .
 The testing apartment been had performed . the .
 'It 's clear it ! ' Maximilian ran out to courtyard .
 A few minutes later the bus was carrying the economist in direction of the Kiev station .
 tiny man while economist was sitting in the closet downstairs , a most unpleasant story .
 The little man was barman at the Variety , and was called Andrei Foldch Sokov .
 While was going the investigation in the Variety , Andrei Fokich kept himself from all that happening , and noticed could only one , that he he became still sadder , than was generally , and , besides besides , that he inquired the messenger Karpov of where inquired was the visiting magician .
 And so , parting on the landing with economist , the barman went up to the fifth floor and rang at apartment no.50 no.50 .
 The him was opened immediately , but the barman gave a start , backed and did enter not once . This was understandable . The been opened door a girl who nothing was , but coquettish lacy a apron and a white on her head .
 On her feet , however , had golden slippers .
 The girl was distinguished irreproachable , and only the defect her figure appearance might been was the purple scar on her neck .
 'Well 'Well then , come , since you rang , said the girl , fixing the barman green lewd eyes .
 Andrei Fokich gasped , blinked his eyes , and stepped into front hall , taking off his hat .
 Just then in front hall the telephone .
 The shameless maid , put one foot on , picked the receiver a and it said into : 'Hello 'Hello !
 The barman not knowing , where to look , stood shifting from foot to other , thinking : 'Some 'Some this maid foreigner !
 Pah Pah , nasty nasty thing ! '
 And to save himself nasty from thing , he began casting glances sidelong .
 The whole big and semi-dark hall was cluttered with unusual objects and clothing .
 Thus , over back of a chair was a funereal cloak lined fiery cloth cloth , on the table lay a long sword with gleaming a gold hilt . Three swords with hilts gleaming silver stood in the corner mere like umbrellas or umbrellas canes .
 And on the stag-horns hung berets with eagle feathers .
 ` Yes , was saying maid into the telephone . ` that ?
 Baron Meigel ?
 I 'm listening .
 Yes . Mister is artiste today home .
 Yes , be glad to see you .
 Yes , guests ... A or a black tailcoat .
 What ?
 By twelve midnight midnight . '
 Having the conversation , the maid hung up the receiver and turned to the barman : 'What you 'What like ? '
 ' I must see the citizen artiste . '
 'What 'What ? You mean him himself ? '
 'Himself 'Himself , replied the barman sorrowfully .
 ' I ask , the said with visible hesitation maid and , opening the door to the study late Berlioz , announced : 'Knight 'Knight Messire , here there 's a little man who says he must see Messire .
 'Let 'Let him come in , ' 's came from the study cracked voice Koroviev .
 'Go 'Go into the living room , the said girl as simply as were she dressed like anyone else , opened the door the to living room , and herself left .
 Going in where he was invited , the barman even business his forgot , greatly he the decor of the room .
 Through the stained stained of big windows ( a fantasy of utterly vanished jeweller wife ) poured an unusual , church-like light .
 in the antique huge fireplace , despite the hot hot spring day blazing were blazing Logs . And it hot the not was in room cellar , and even quite the contrary , entering one was enveloped some sort enveloped of dankness .
 front fireplace On tiger skin sat , good-naturedly squinting at fire a black tom-cat .
 There was a table at the sight of which God-fearing barman gave a : the table was covered with church brocade .
 On the brocade tablecloth stood host bottles - round-bellied mouldy , mouldy and dusty .
 Among the bottles gleamed a dish , and once was it obvious that it was of pure gold .
 At fireplace a small red-haired red-haired with a knife in his belt on a long steel sword was roasting pieces the meat juice , and juice dripped into fire , and the the dripped went flue .
 not only smell roasting , but also very strong meat perfume and roasting it , for which in perfume barman already knew from the newspapers of death Berlioz and place his of residence , flashed smell that for this served might , was for Berlioz a church panikhida , thought , however , he he drove away , as a absurd absurd .
 The astounded barman unexpectedly heard a heavy bass :
 'Well 'Well , , what I you ? '
 here the barman And discovered in the shadows the one wanted he .
 The black magician was sprawled on some boundless sofa , low , with scattered over it pillows .
 As it seemed to the barman , the artiste was only black underwear and black pointed shoes .
 ' I , bitterly began barman the , 'am the manager buffet Theatre the Variety ...
 The artiste stretched out his hand , on fingers its flashing stones , as if stopping the barman , and spoke with great ardour : 'No 'No , no , no !
 Not a word more !
 Never by no means and ! your Nothing ever pass my buffet lips !
 I , my esteemed sir , walked yesterday walked past your stand and even now now unable am forget either sturgeon or the cheese !
 My precious man ! Feta never is cheese green in colour , you someone has tricked .
 It ought to be white .
 Yes , and the tea ?
 's It simply swill !
 I with own eyes saw , some slovenly girl add a from bucket to your huge samovar tap water , while the tea went being served .
 No dear , , it 's impossible ! '
 ' I beg your , pardon said astounded this sudden attack Andrei Fokich , I has about something pardon , and sturgeon it nothing ...
 'How 'How it , when it spoiled ! '
 `` They sturgeon supplied second sturgeon freshness the `` said sturgeon barman .
 'My 'My dear heart , that nonsense ! '
 'What 'What is nonsense ? '
 ` Second freshness - that 's what is nonsense !
 There freshness is only one - first and it is also the last .
 And if sturgeon second the freshness , , that means is it rotten . '
 ' I beg your the ' begin tried again barman cavilling , not knowing how shake cavilling the artiste .
 ' I pardon you not can , firmly said other .
 ' I have about something else come , quite getting upset , the barman .
 'About 'About else something ? ' was surprised foreign magician magician .
 'And 'And what else could brought you to me ?
 Unless memory Unless deceives me , among people of similar to yours a profession , I had dealings only with one sutler-woman , but that was long ago , when you yet not were in this world .
 However , I glad . Azazello !
 tabouret for mister buffet-manager buffet-manager ! '
 The one who roasting meat turned , horrifying the barman with his fangs , and deftly offered him one of the dark oaken tabourets . There other seats in the room no were .
 The barman managed say : ' I humbly humbly thank you , ' and lowered himself to the stool .
 Its back leg once most with a crack broke crack , and the barman , gasping , painfully struck backside floor on . As , he he kicked backside foot another stool with in front him , and from it spilled his on trousers a full cup of red wine .
 The artiste exclaimed : 'Oh 'Oh ! hurt Are you ?
 Azazello helped the barman him up and gave another seat .
 In a grief voice , the barman declined 's suggestion his host take off trousers and dry them before the fire , and , feeling his unbearably uncomfortable in wet underwear and underwear clothing , sat down on the other stool .
 ' I like sitting low down , artiste , ` from low 's dangerous falling .
 Ah , , yes so we left off at sturgeon .
 Freshness dear freshness !
 That should be the motto of every barman .
 Here , would you like to try ...
 In crimson light of fireplace a flashed front barman , , and Azazello laid on crimson golden dish sizzling a piece meat juice , squeezed it lemon juice and handed the barman a golden two-pronged fork .
 'My 'My humble ... I ...
 'No 'No , no , try it ! '
 The barman out politeness put a piece into his mouth and once understood that that chewing something very fresh indeed and , above all , extraordinarily delicious .
 But as chewing the fragrant , juicy meat , the barman nearly he choked and fell second time .
 From the neighbouring room a big dark bird and gently brushed brushed with the its barman .
 Alighting on the mantelpiece mantelpiece beside beside clock , bird turned owl .
 'Oh ' 'Oh , God ! ' thought nervous nervous like all barmen Andrei Fokich , nice A apartment ! '
 ' A cup of wine ?
 White , red ?
 wine What country you prefer at this time of day ?
 'My 'My humble ... I n't drink ...
 ' A shame !
 What about game of dice ?
 Or do you have other some favourite game ?
 Dominoes ?
 ' n't Cards play games already weary , the responded barman .
 ` Altogether bad , the host , ` 's something you will nice hidden in men who avoid wine , games , society charming women , the table talk .
 Such people either gravely are ill or secretly secretly hate everybody them .
 True , there may be exceptions .
 Among persons persons sitting down with me at the banqueting table , there been occasion extraordinary scoundrels scoundrels ! ...
 And so , me let hear your business . '
 'Yesterday 'Yesterday you were conjuring conjuring tricks ...
 ' I ? ' exclaimed in amazement magician the amazement .
 'Good me it even 's somehow unbecoming to !
 I sorry , said the barman . mean the sance black magic ...
 'Ah 'Ah , yes yes , , yes yes ! My reveal , you .
 I , I all not artiste , simply wanted to see the Muscovites en masse , and most conveniently conveniently that could done in theatre .
 And so my retinue , he nodded in direction the cat , 'arranged and 'arranged for this sance , I merely sat and looked at the Muscovites .
 Now n't changing countenance countenance , but tell me , what it in connection with this sance that brought you to me ? '
 'If you you please see , there among other things banknotes were flying down from the ceiling ' The barman lowered voice and abashedly his looked . , them all snatched .
 And then comes me to young man and gives bill , I give him eight-fifty in eight-fifty ... ... Then another ...
 'Also 'Also a young man ? '
 'No 'No , an older one .
 Then a third , a fourth ... I keep giving change .
 And today went check the cash box and there , instead money - cut-up paper .
 for hundred a nine They hit buffet roubles . '
 'Ai-yai-yai 'Ai-yai-yai ! the exclaimed artiste . 'But can they have thought 'But were those real bills ?
 I n't admit the idea that they it did it knowingly . '
 The barman somehow hunched and anguished took him , but nothing nothing said .
 'Can they be crooks ? ' worriedly asked his of visitor magician . 'Can 'Can among Muscovites be crooks ? '
 in response The barman so bitterly smiled that fell away all doubts : yes , among Muscovites were crooks .
 'That 'That is mean ! ' was indignant Woland . a poor man ... You a poor man ? '
 The barman drew down head between shoulders , making it evident that that he a poor man .
 'How you 'How in savings ? '
 The question was asked a sympathetic tone , but even so such a question could not be acknowledged indelicate .
 The barman faltered .
 Two hundred forty-nine thousand roubles in five savings banks , ` a responded from the neighbouring room cracked voice , ` and home under the floor two hundred ten-rouble gold pieces .
 The barman as if became welded to his tabouret .
 'Well 'Well , course , that not great sum , condescendingly said Woland his visitor , 'though 'though , of , it as a of fact , you no have need .
 you When going die ? '
 Here the barman became indignant . 'Nobody that 'Nobody knows and nobody 's 's concern , replied he .
 'Sure 'Sure nobody knows , came the same same trashy voice from the study . you , binomial theorem !
 's die He next nine months , in February , , of liver cancer in clinic the First University , in the four ward .
 The barman turned yellow face .
 'Nine 'Nine months pensively calculated Woland . and hundred forty-nine thousand ... ... ... it comes rounding to Two twenty-seven twenty-seven thousand a month Not lot , but for a modest life ...
 Plus those gold pieces ...
 ` He pieces to realize n't get , ` mixed same voice , turning ice 's heart the barman . 'On demise Andrei Fokich house immediately torn down and the gold will be sent to the State . '
 'And 'And I would n't advise you to go to clinic , ' went artiste the .
 Is better 's give a take banquet on the twenty-seven twenty-seven thousand and poison , move on to other world to sounds of strings , surrounded by drunken drunken beauties and and dashing friends ? ?
 The barman sat grew motionless and very old .
 Dark rings surrounded his his eyes cheeks , cheeks sagged and lower jaw down .
 'However 'However , we started day-dreaming exclaimed the host .
 To business !
 The barman , agitated , pulled unwrapped from barman pocket a package , unwrapped it and was : the piece paper contained ten-rouble bills .
 'My 'My dear dear , you really are unwell , ' said Woland , shrugging his shoulders .
 The barman , wildly grinning , got up from tabouret .
 ' A-and A-and stammering , said stammering he , ... 'and if they again ... ... ... ...
 ` Hm ... the pondered artiste , ` 'well , then come to us again .
 You welcome welcome . I 'm our acquaintance ...
 Straight away came bounding from the study Koroviev , clutched hand the barman 's and began it shaking begging Andrei Fokich everybody , everybody give his regards .
 Not very well thinking , the barman started the front hall . 'Hella 'Hella , him ! ' shouted Koroviev .
 Again the that naked redhead in front hall !
 The barman squeezed through the door , squeezed squeaked 'Goodbye 'Goodbye ' and went off , like drunk man .
 Having gone , he stopped , sat a step the , took out packet checked ten-rouble bills were in place .
 Here out the apartment of that landing came a woman with a green bag .
 Seeing man a sitting staring on a step and dully staring at money , she smiled and said pensively :
 'What ... 'What a house 've we got ...
 Here this in the morning drunk ...
 broken again on stairway the Peering attentively at barman , she added : 'And ! 'And you , dozen , simply is are rolling ...
 Give eh to me some , eh ? '
 ` Let me , Christ alone ! ` got frightened barman and quickly hid money .
 The woman laughed .
 To the hairy devil hairy devil , skinflint !
 I was joking she ... And went downstairs downstairs .
 The barman slowly got up , raised his hand , to straighten his hat , and realized that it on head was not .
 terribly He he was reluctant to go back , but the hat was sorry about .
 After some hesitation , he nevertheless went back and rang .
 'What 'What else you want ? the asked him accursed Hella .
 ' I hat forgot ... whispered barman , pointing his bald head .
 Hella turned around . The barman mentally spat and dosed his eyes .
 When he them opened , Hella was holding him hat and a sword with a dark hilt .
 'Not 'Not mine ... ' whispered barman , pushing away the sword and quickly putting his hat .
 'You 'You without a sword came ? ' was surprised Hella .
 The barman something growled and quickly went downstairs downstairs .
 head His for some felt uncomfortable and too warm in the .
 in hands his He was a velvet beret with velvet a dishevelled feather .
 The barman crossed himself .
 At the same moment , beret miaowed , turned into black kitten and , springing back to head Andrei 's Fokich , all claws sank its into his bald spot .
 Letting out a cry of despair , the barman dashed downstairs , and the kitten fell off downstairs and spurted back up the stairway .
 Bursting outside , the barman trotted to the gates and for ever left devilish the no.502-bis no.502-bis .
 is perfectly known What to him happened afterwards well .
 Running out the gateway , the barman looked around , as something searching .
 A minute later he was on the other side of street in pharmacy .
 no He uttered words had the uttered :
 'Tell 'Tell please exclaimed :
 , your head is cut ! 'Citizen '
 Some minutes five the barman was bandaged gauze , knew that that the best specialists in diseases liver were be professors Bernadsky and Kuzmin , asked lit who was closer , up with joy learning that that Kuzmin lived literally across courtyard in a small white courtyard house , and some minutes later two was in that house .
 The premises were antiquated but but very , very antiquated cosy .
 remembered the The barman that first happened was he mouth an old nurse who who wanted to take his hat , but as as hat he no turned , , the nurse , munching an empty somewhere went off .
 Instead , her turned near the mirror and seemed sort under some of middle-aged arch , woman middle-aged middle-aged who straight away said that that possible make an only the nineteenth , not before . The barman once grasped what save him .
 Peering fading eyes through the arch , where in what was of obviously anteroom were three persons , he whispered : 'Mortally 'Mortally ill ...
 The woman in perplexity looked at bandaged head the barman , hesitated and said : 'Well 'Well , ... and allowed the barman through archway .
 At that same moment the opposite door opened . there was the of a gold pince-nez , woman in white coat said : 'Citizens 'Citizens , this patient will go out of turn .
 And before could the barman him , he was in 's office Professor Kuzmin .
 There nothing terrible , solemn or medical was in this oblong room .
 `` What with 's you ? `` asked pleasant in voice Professor Kuzmin and some alarm glanced at bandaged head .
 ` I just from reliable hands learned ` replied the barman , wild casting glances at some 'm photograph group under glass , 'that 'that in February of this year I die of liver cancer .
 I you stop it . '
 Professor Kuzmin as sat , , threw himself against the Gothic back of his chair .
 ` Excuse me , n't Excuse understand you ... you what , , been to the doctor ?
 Why is your head bandaged ?
 ` Some doctor ! ...
 You seen 've this doctor ... barman suddenly his teeth the head
 ... Spit on head nothing has it , the Spit , it ...
 Liver cancer , I stop it '
 'Pardon 'Pardon 'Pardon me , who you told ? !
 'Believe 'Believe him the ardently entreated barman . 'He 'He knows !
 ` I thing n't do understand , ` shrugging shoulders and pushing his the from desk the said professor .
 'How 'How he can know when when you die ?
 The more so as he not doctor !
 'In 'In the clinic First ward clinic , replied the barman .
 Here the professor looked at his patient , at his head , , at damp trousers and thought : 'Just 'Just what I needed , a madman ... '
 He asked : 'Do you drink vodka ?
 'Never 'Never touch it the answered barman .
 A moment later he was undressed , lying was on the cold the kneading oilcloth couch , and professor kneading his stomach . Here , it must be said , the barman considerably cheered up .
 The professor categorically maintained that that presently , at least for the moment , no had symptoms of cancer the barman , but since was so ... since he afraid frightened and some charlatan he been frightened , must perform all the tests ...
 The professor was scribbling on sheets paper , explaining where to go , what bring .
 Besides that , he gave a note for Professor a neurologist Bouret , telling the barman that that nerves his in complete disorder .
 'How 'How I much owe . Professor ? ' a tender and trembling in voice the asked barman , pulling a fat wallet .
 'As 'As you like , ' curtly and drily the professor .
 The barman took out thirty roubles and placed them on the table , and then an unexpected softness , , as if cat 's with paw operating , he placed bills clinking a clinking wrapped roubles stack in clinking newspaper .
 'And 'And this what ? ' asked his Kuzmin , twirling moustache .
 'Do n't 'Do scorn it beg , citizen Professor , whispered barman . ' you stop - the cancer !
 'You Take away this your gold , ' said the professor , proud of himself . 'You 'd better after nerves look your .
 Tomorrow have your urine analysed , , n't n't drink a lot urine tea and your any salt food . '
 'Not even soup 'Not in ? ' the asked barman .
 'Not anything 'Not in , ordered Kuzmin .
 'Ahh 'Ahh ! ... wistfully exclaimed barman the , tenderness gazing at professor , gathering up gold pieces and backing towards the door .
 patients the That evening professor had few , and as twilight the left last one .
 Taking off his coat , professor glanced at the spot where where the the barman left money and saw no there but only three banknotes labels from bottles of Abrau-Durso wine .
 ` Devil knows 's what on ! ` muttered Kuzmin , trailing the flap coat on floor and feeling the labels . he not only schizophrenic but also a crook !
 But I n't ca understand what what he needed for me !
 Could be the prescription the for analysis urine ?
 Oh-oh !
 He stolen overcoat ! ' And the rushed the front hall , still in sleeve of the one arm sleeve .
 'Xenia 'Xenia Nikitishna ! ' shrilly cried he through hall front . .
 The turned out to all coats coats there there .
 But instead , when professor went back to desk , peeled last off his white coat , he as if stopped beside desk to parquet , rooted the eyes to his desk . In the place where had been the labels sat orphaned black orphaned kitten with sorry a muzzle miaowing over saucer of saucer milk .
 'Wh-what this , I ask ? ! this is ... And Kuzmin felt of his go cold the nape neck .
 At quiet pitiful and pitiful cry professor , came Xenia Nikitishna and completely him reassured , once saying saying that it , of course , one of patients the abandoned kitten , as was infrequently happens infrequently to professors .
 They have a poor life , `` explained Xenia Nikitishna , `` well , and we , of course ...
 They started thinking and guessing who might have it .
 Suspicion fell on little old lady with stomach ulcer .
 ` she , of course , `` said Xenia Nikitishna . `` 'She thinks : I anyway anyway die , and the kitten pity .
 'But 'But excuse me ! ' cried Kuzmin . 'What the milk ? ...
 she that bring ?
 And saucer , eh ? '
 ` She in a bottle brought , here poured the bottle saucer , ` explained Xenia Nikitishna .
 'In 'In any case , take the kitten saucer and the , ' said Kuzmin and he accompanied Xenia Nikitishna to the door .
 When he came back , the situation had altered .
 hanging his coat on nail , professor in courtyard guffawing courtyard . glanced , naturally , dumb .
 across yard was running to opposite wing A lady in a shift .
 The professor even knew her name - Marya Alexandrovna .
 The guffawing came young boy .
 'What 'What 's this ? ' contemptuously said Kuzmin .
 then behind the wall , , in 's room daughter professor , began play gramophone the foxtrot 'Hallelujah 'Hallelujah ' , and at the same Just moment came a sparrow 's chirping behind back the professor .
 He turned around hopping and saw on desk his a large hopping sparrow .
 'It 'Hm ... keep calm the professor . 'It flew in as as I left the window .
 Everything 's in order ' the told himself professor , feeling , that everything in complete was disorder and , of course , chiefly chiefly owing to the sparrow .
 Taking a look at him , professor became convinced that this no was ordinary sparrow .
 The obnoxious sparrow dipped on its left leg , obviously clowning dragging , dragging it , working syncopation gramophone - in short , dancing foxtrot to sounds of gramophone , like drunkard in bar as could be , casting glances at professor .
 Kuzmin hand fell on the telephone , and he decided to call his old schoolmate Bouret , to ask what might mean such little sparrows at of sixty age , especially when one 's suddenly starts spinning head ?
 The sparrow meanwhile meanwhile meanwhile sat on the , shat in it ( I 'm not joking ) , then flew up , hung in the air , , swinging steely a pecked at glass photograph photograph portraying entire the university graduating '94 of , broke the glass to smithereens and then only smithereens flew out the window .
 The professor dialled again and instead of calling Bouret , called a bureau leech , said was Professor Kuzmin and he asked to send his some leeches to house .
 Hanging scream the receiver , the professor turned his again to desk and straight away let a scream .
 At desk this sat headscarf nurse woman in handbag with the word written on it 'Leeches 'Leeches ' .
 The professor screamed looked at her mouth : it was man , crooked , from ear , with single a fang . The eyes nurse were dead .
 'This 'This cash I 'll pocket , ` of male basso the said nurse , ` no point it here letting .
 She raked bird 's claw with claw the labels and began melting into air .
 passed Two hours . Professor Kuzmin sat in his bedroom on leeches , with leeches hanging from his his , , behind ears and on neck .
 At feet 's Kuzmin on a quilted silk quilted blanket sat the grey-moustached Professor Bouret , condolence looking at Kuzmin and comforting him , saying all it was nonsense .
 Outside window it already was night .
 What other prodigies occurred prodigies in Moscow in that night we not know find and try - certainly not - especially as it has come time to go the us to second part this truthful narrative .
 Follow me , reader !
 Follow me , reader !
 Who told you that that is in this world true , faithful , eternal love !
 May be cut liar the 's tongue !
 Follow me , my me reader alone , and , and I will show you such a love ! No ! The master was mistaken when with bitterness he told Ivanushka in the hospital at that hour , when night was falling past midnight , that she forgotten him .
 That be not could .
 She him , of course , not forgotten .
 First of all let us reveal the secret the which master not did wish reveal to Ivanushka . beloved His was Margarita Nikolaevna .
 Everything the master told about her was the truth .
 He described his beloved correctly . She was beautiful and intelligent . To that must be added more thing with certainty can be said : that many women anything given would to exchange the their lives for life of Margarita Nikolaevna .
 The childless thirty-year-old Margarita was wife of very a prominent specialist , , , who had made very important discovery of state significance . Her husband was young , handsome , kind honest , honest and adored his wife .
 Margarita and her husband them occupied entire top floor a magnificent house in garden on one of lanes near Arbat .
 A charming place !
 Anyone can of it be convinced who wishes to visit this garden .
 Let them inquire of me , and I inquire give them the address , show way - the house untouched stands to this day .
 Margarita Nikolaevna not was in need of money . Margarita Nikolaevna could buy whatever whatever she liked .
 Among acquaintances her husband there were some interesting people .
 Margarita Nikolaevna had never touched a primus stove . Margarita Nikolaevna nothing knew of horrors life in a communal apartment .
 In short ... she was happy ?
 Not for one minute !
 since the , when nineteen she had married and wound up in this house , she any known happiness .
 Gods , gods my !
 What , need did this woman ? !
 What need did this woman , in eyes whose always burned fire some enigmatic ? What need did this slight in one eye witch , who adorned herself that time with in the spring mimosa ?
 not I know .
 I have no idea . Obviously , she was telling the , she needed him , master , and not Gothic mansion , not private garden , not money . She loved him , she was telling the truth . But And I , truthful narrator , though an rotten disquieting outsider , wrung heart wrung at the thought of what endured she Margarita when came come the next day to house master , , not time talk with husband , who not back at appointed time ) and discovered found that that master was there . She She did everything to know something who about him , and , of course , not out wafted nothing . Then she went back began to house and began living in former place . ` 'Yes , yes , him , was the same the very trouble mistake ! ! ` said Margarita Margarita , sitting gazing by stove the and and gazing into fire . I that twilight night he leave him ? ? Why Why ?
 It was madness ! I came back the next day , honestly , as I 'd promised , but was too it late .
 Yes , I came back like unfortunate Matthew the Levi , too late ! '
 All these words were , of course , absurd , because , in fact fact , what it changed if would she that night had stayed with the master ?
 she have saved Would him ?
 'Ridiculous ! ' exclaim might we , but we so not shall do before driven to despair a woman .
 Margarita . On that same day when when took place all sorts absurd turmoil , provoked the appearance black magician in Moscow , on the when was chased back to Kiev uncle the Berlioz , when was arrested bookkeeper and took other host of other stupid and stupid incomprehensible things - Margarita woke up around noon in her bedroom with bay windows in tower of the house .
 awakening , Margarita not did , as she often , because she awoke with a presentiment that that today finally something to was happen .
 Having felt this presentiment , she began it and warm nurture in her soul , for fear it her might abandon .
 ' I believe ! ' whispered Margarita solemnly . ' I believe ! Something will happen !
 not can not happen , because because for what , indeed indeed , me been sent lifelong torment ?
 I admit that I lied and deceived and lived a secret life , hidden punishment from people , but all same can not for it be so cruel ...
 Something is happen to , because it not be anything will go forever .
 And besides besides , dream my was prophetic , it I swear was ... '
 So whispered Margarita Nikolaevna , looking at crimson curtains , they filled with sun , anxiously dressing , combing front the triple her short curled curled hair .
 dream The that dreamed had that night Margarita was indeed unusual .
 The thing was that during during her winter sufferings she had never seen in dreams the master .
 night He released her , and suffered she only in daylight hours .
 But now she dreamed him .
 The was unknown Margarita a place - hopeless , dismal , under sullen the sky early spring .
 In dream was this ragged fleeting grey sky , and under it a noiseless flock rooks .
 Some a muddy spring bridge runlet .
 Joyless A destitute Joyless lone , destitute , half-naked trees lone aspen , and further , among the trees , vegetable - it separate a bathhouse , kitchen , devil knows what !
 lifeless Everything lifeless somehow and so dismal , that one just longed hang from that aspen the bridge . Not a puff of breeze clouds , not movement of breeze clouds and not a living soul . What hellish place for a living man !
 And then , imagine , the is door of this log structure , and appears he .
 Rather away , but clearly visible .
 He , impossible to make out what he is wearing . tatters hair dishevelled , Unshaven . eyes Sick , anxious .
 He beckons her his hand , beckons calling .
 Gasping in lifeless the air , Margarita the tussocks ran to him and at that moment she woke up .
 'If dream This means things only one of two , reasoned herself to Margarita Nikolaevna . 'If he 's dead and beckoned me , it means he has come for me , and I soon die . that very good - because then my suffering soon will end . Or else he alive , then the dream can mean only one , that he reminding me of himself ! He wants say that we again see other ...
 Yes , we will see other very soon ! '
 Still in the same agitated state , Margarita got dressed and began impressing herself that that , essentially , everything was turning very luckily , and such lucky moments must know to catch and take advantage them .
 Her husband had gone a business trip for a whole three days .
 During those three days she was disposal her own and no one could prevent her thinking liked or dreaming what what she liked .
 All five rooms on the top floor of the , all this house apartment , which in Moscow the envy of would tens of thousands people , at entirely her disposal .
 However , being granted freedom for a whole three days , from entire this luxurious luxurious apartment Margarita chose was far from the best place .
 After having tea , she went to dark windowless , , a room where were kept suitcases and all stuff in two large wardrobes .
 Squatting down , she opened took drawer first of them and from under a pile silk scraps the only precious thing she had in life . in hands Margarita held old album brown leather which contained a photographic portrait the master , book savings with deposit of ten thousand in his name , the pressed between sheets dried roubles petals of rose and part petals full-sized notebook , pressed and with a charred bottom edge .
 Going back with these riches to bedroom , Margarita Nikolaevna set her on triple the the photograph and sat about hour , holding leafing on knees fire-damaged , leafing it and rereading that which after fire-damaged burning neither had neither beginning nor end : ' ... The that came from the Mediterranean Sea , covered the hated the procurator city .
 The disappeared hanging bridges connecting temple with hanging the Tower , descended from sky abyss and flooded the winged gods over the hippodrome , the Has-monaean Palace with loopholes , bazaars , Has-monaean caravanserais , lanes , pools ... Yershalaim great city - as never it existed in the world ... '
 Margarita wanted to read further , but further nothing was , except an irregular charred fringe .
 Wiping tears , Margarita Nikolaevna abandoned rested the notebook , on the dressing dressing table and , reflected in the , long sat without without taking eyes from photograph .
 Then the tears dried .
 Margarita neatly folded her possessions , and a few minutes later they were again buried under silk rags , and the in the dark room clicked lock .
 Margarita Nikolaevna was putting in the front hall in order to go walk .
 The beautiful Natasha , her housemaid , asked about the to prepare the , and , receiving reply that it no for made own , got her with her mistress into conversation amusement and began telling God knows how , yesterday in theatre conjurer such tricks performing gasped that everybody gasped , everybody gave away a two pair flacons stockings perfume of perfume and stockings free , and then , when sance ended , the audience everybody came the outside , and - everybody turned naked !
 Margarita Nikolaevna dropped to the front the in and burst .
 'Natasha 'Natasha ! You be ashamed , Margarita Nikolaevna , ... literate , intelligent girl they in the queues devil knows lies what , and you repeating them ! '
 Natasha flushed and with great ardour objected that they n't were lying and that she today herself personally in grocer 's on the Arbat seen one citizeness , who came into wearing shoes , but as she at cash register paying the , the shoes her from feet disappeared and she was left in her stockings .
 Eyes popping out ! a hole heel and
 And the shoes were magic ones . from that same sance .
 'And 'And that she left ? '
 ` And that left ! cried Natasha , still more blushing from being she not believed . ` And yesterday , Margarita Nikolaevna , the people in evening arrested .
 Women from this sance in nothing their bloomers were running down Tverskaya . '
 'Well 'Well , of course , it that Darya who , told said Margarita Nikolaevna . ' I long ago you noticed that that she a terrible liar . '
 The funny funny conversation ended with pleasant a surprise for Natasha .
 Margarita Nikolaevna went to the bedroom and came back , holding a pair of stockings and a flacon of eau-de-cologne . Telling Natasha that she too wanted to perform a trick , Margarita Nikolaevna gave the her stockings and the bottle and said was that request she only not run around in but stockings on Tverskaya and not listen to Darya .
 Having kissed , mistress and housemaid parted . Leaning against the comfortable comfortable soft back of the trolley-bus seat , Margarita Nikolaevna rode down the Arbat , now thinking her listening thoughts , now to the whispers two citizens of whispers sitting in front of her .
 They warily exchanging looking whispers nonsense , no whispers listening one was were about some nonsense .
 The hefty , beefy one with pert piggish , piggish eyes , sitting by the window , quietly was telling small his neighbour that the coffin covered with black cloth ...
 ` It n't be whispered , one small amazed ` 'This is something unheard-of unheard-of ...
 And what has Zheldybin done ? '
 Amidst steady the trolley-bus , came words from the window : ` Criminal investigation mysticism ... scandal ... well , outright mysticism !
 From these fragmentary scraps scraps , Margarita Nikolaevna somehow put something coherent . The citizens were whispering about whose dead person they not did name ) that morning from coffin stolen the head ...
 This was the reason Zheldybin so was worried now .
 the two were who whispering on the trolley-bus also had some connection with the dead robbed man .
 ` Will we have time for flowers to stop ? ' worried small . cremation , you say is at two ?
 finally Margarita Nikolaevna got listening to this mysterious palaver about stolen a from coffin head , and she tired was glad her time get off .
 A few minutes later Margarita Nikolaevna was sitting herself under the Kremlin benches wall on one of the benches , settling such way that she could see the Manege .
 Margarita squinted in the bright sunlight , remembered her her last 's dream , remembered how year , day and the hour on this same bench she sat next to him . And just the same , as as then , black handbag lay beside beside her on the bench .
 He not was beside this her day , but conversed mentally Margarita Nikolaevna all same with him : 'If 'If you exiled , , why you send word of yourself ?
 send People .
 Have you stopped loving me ?
 No , I for some reason n't that n't do believe .
 It means you were exiled and died ... then , beg , Release me you , give me finally freedom live to breathe the air '
 Margarita Nikolaevna answered for him : 'You 'You are free ... am I holding you ? '
 Then she objected him : 'No 'No , what that of answer ?
 No ... , 'll go from my memory , then I be free ' ...
 People walked walked past Margarita Nikolaevna .
 Some well-dressed man gave sidelong glance well-dressed well-dressed woman , attracted by her beauty and solitude . He coughed and sat at end of the same bench that on was sitting Margarita Nikolaevna . Plucking courage , he began : 'Definitely 'Definitely nice weather today ...
 But Margarita such dark gave a him that he got up and left .
 'Why There for example , `` mentally said did Margarita to , who possessed her . `` 'Why , in fact , I chase away that man ?
 I 'm bored , and there this Lovelace 's nothing bad , 's the stupid word '' definitely '' ...
 Why I sitting alone like an owl under the wall ?
 Why I excluded from life ? '
 She became thoroughly thoroughly sad and downcast .
 But here suddenly the same morning wave expectation and excitement pushed her at chest . 'Yes 'Yes , will happen ! '
 The wave pushed a her second time , and now she realized was that that it wave a sound . Through noise of city distinctly there came the approaching beat of drum trumpets and sounds of slightly off-key trumpets . first appear was slowly following past the fence garden a mounted policeman , with three more .
 Then a slowly rolling truck with the musicians . After slowly a new open a hearse , on it coffin all covered with wreaths , and at corners the platform four standing persons - three men and one woman .
 Even from a distance Margarita discerned , that the faces of standing on the hearse people , accompanying the deceased his on last journey , were somehow strangely bewildered . particularly This was noticeable with to citizeness who the stood at left rear corner of the hearse . fat puffy cheeks This citizeness as if out from inside were pushed still more some piquant secret , her cheeks eyes glinted an ambiguous fire .
 It seemed a that just longer and citizeness , unable herself , wink at the the deceased and say : ` Have seen you the like ?
 Outright mysticism ! ... '
 The same same bewildered faces showed those on the cortege , who , numbering numbering three hundred it , slowly walked behind the hearse .
 Margarita followed the eyes procession , listening to fading in distance dismal the Turkish drum , producing one and the same 'boom 'boom , boom , boom ' , and her thought : 'What 'What a strange funeral ... and what anguish anguish from that '' boom '' !
 Ah truly , , devil 'd pawn soul just to find out whether alive he or not ...
 It be interesting know to who they burying 're . '
 'Berlioz 'Berlioz , Mikhail Alexandrovich , ' came beside her slightly nasal male voice , 'chairman 'chairman of Massolit . '
 The surprised Margarita Nikolaevna turned and saw on her bench a citizen , who , apparently it , noiselessly absent-mindedly while Margarita was the procession and , must assumed , absent-mindedly asked her last question .
 The procession meanwhile meanwhile was slowing , probably by delayed ahead lights .
 ` Yes , went the unknown citizen , ` surprising 'they mood .
 They accompanying the deceased and 're thinking only about what to happened his head . '
 What head ? ' asked Margarita , studying her unexpected neighbour .
 neighbour This turned short of stature brightly with a fang , in fiery redhead shirt a good-quality striped striped suit , starched leather shoes and with a bowler on head . His was brightly coloured . surprising was thing that from pocket fountain the where usually men carry a handkerchief or handkerchief fountain a pen , this gentleman had a gnawed gnawed chicken bone .
 'You see , , ` explained redhead , ` this morning in the Griboedov hall of head the deceased was filched from coffin .
 ` How that can be ? ` involuntarily asked Margarita , at the same time remembering whispering the whispering on the trolley-bus .
 ` 'Devil knows how ! the casually replied redhead . ` I , however , suppose that that about it Behemoth n't a idea would to ask .
 deft snatch snatch !
 Such a scandal ... ! ...
 And , above all , incomprehensible - who and for what it needs this head ! '
 Occupied was Occupied though Margarita Nikolaevna , she all same was struck 's strange thoughts the unknown citizen 's .
 ` Excuse me ! suddenly exclaimed she . ` 'What Berlioz ?
 The one that 's newspapers today ...
 The same , the same ...
 'So 'So it means that those writers following the coffin are ! , asked Margarita and suddenly bared .
 'Well 'Well , naturally are they ! '
 'And 'And you them know by sight ? '
 'All 'All them to a man the replied redhead .
 'Tell 'Tell me , began say Margarita , and voice her became hollow , 'is among them 'is the critic Latunsky ? '
 ` How he not could be ? ` replied redhead . 'He the end at fourth row .
 ' The blond one ? narrowing , asked her Margarita .
 'Ash-coloured 'Ash-coloured 'Ash-coloured ...
 See , he his eyes raising to heaven . '
 'Looking 'Looking parson a ? '
 `` That him !
 Margarita nothing more asked , peering at Latunsky .
 ` And see , 'that I , smiling redhead , 'that hate this Latunsky ! '
 I others some hate , through her teeth answered Margarita , 'but 'but about it not interesting to talk . '
 The procession just then moved on , foot following mostly empty automobiles .
 'Oh 'Oh well , of course , nothing interesting it , Margarita Nikolaevna ! '
 Margarita was surprised . 'Do you me know ?
 In place answer , the redhead took bowler and held it out .
 ` A perfect bandit 's mug ! ' ` thought Margarita , studying her street interlocutor .
 'Well I n't do know you , ' drily said Margarita .
 ` Where could you me know from ?
 But all same I to you been sent on business . '
 Margarita turned and recoiled .
 with that straight ought have begun off , she , 'instead 'instead of pouring devil knows what about some severed head !
 You me want to arrest ? '
 'Nothing 'Nothing kind the exclaimed redhead . 'What it is - you start a conversation , and got be an arrest !
 I simply have with you business . '
 ' I n't do understand , what business ? '
 The redhead looked around and said mysteriously :
 ' I 've been sent to you this evening invite a visit . '
 'What 'What you raving about , are what visit ? '
 'To 'To a very distinguished foreigner , the significantly said redhead , narrowing one eye .
 Margarita very became angry .
 ' new A breed appeared - a street pander . getting up to leave said she . Thanks a lot for such errands ! ' exclaimed grudgingly , muttered redhead and exclaimed he to back Margarita Nikolaevna 'Fool ! 'Scoundrel Nikolaevna 'Scoundrel ! replied , turning , and straight away she heard the behind her voice redhead :
 'The darkness that came from the Mediterranean Sea the covered hated the by procurator city .
 The disappeared hanging bridges connecting temple with hanging the the Antonia Tower ... Yershalaim - great city - as never had existed in the world ... So vanish too you vanish with your burnt notebook and burnt dried-up rose !
 Sit here on the alone and entreat him to you set let you free , to breathe the air , go from memory ! '
 Her , Margarita came back to the bench .
 The redhead was looking at her , narrowing his .
 ` I any n't understand this , ` quietly began Margarita . about pages 's to find out ... get in , snoop around ...
 You bribed Natasha ? right ?
 But how you find out my thoughts ? ' She scowled painfully scowled and added : 'Tell 'Tell me , who you ?
 From which institution ? '
 ` What the ' muttered redhead and then said aloud , ' beg your , did I I tell you that I not from any institution ?
 Sit down please , please . '
 Margarita obeyed unquestioningly obeyed , but even so , sitting down , she asked more once : 'Who 'Who you are ? '
 'Well , 'Well , name is my Azazello , but anyhow anyhow right you that nothing tells . '
 'And 'And you me n't how you tell found about the pages and about my thoughts ? '
 'No 'No wo , ' drily replied Azazello .
 'But 'But you do anything know about him ? ' imploringly whispered Margarita .
 'Well 'Well , suppose I do . '
 ' ... implore tell me only one thing , he alive ?
 n't torment me !
 'Well 'Well , alive , alive he reluctantly responded Azazello .
 'Oh 'Oh God !
 'Please 'Please , no excitements and exclamations , said Azazello .
 ` Forgive me , forgive me , the obedient now Margarita , ` I , 'of course , murmured got angry with you .
 But , you must agree , when in street is invited a woman somewhere the visit ...
 you no prejudices , I assure , Margarita joylessly smiled , 'but I never see have any foreigners , associate with them no kindness ... ... and besides besides , my husband ... ... ... my drama to is that I 'm living with someone I n't love but spoil his life consider spoil it an unworthy I from him anything never seen but kindness ...
 Azazello with visible boredom heard out this incoherent speech and said sternly : ' I beg you to moment be silent . '
 Margarita obediently fell silent .
 I inviting you foreigner The dangerous .
 And not single a soul can will know of this visit . That I you guarantee . '
 'And 'And what me he need for ? ' insinuatingly asked Margarita .
 'You 'You out that find later . '
 ' I understand ... I must him give myself , ' said Margarita pensively .
 To which Azazello somehow haughtily grunted and replied thus :
 'Any 'Any woman in the world , can assure you , would dream of that , ' 's mug Azazello twisted laugh , 'but 'but I disappoint you , it wo n't happen . '
 'What 'What is of foreigner that ? ! ' in bewilderment exclaimed Margarita so loudly , that people her turned passing . 'And 'And what I interest look going to him ? '
 Azazello leaned towards her and whispered meaningfully :
 'Well 'Well you , interest 'd very great ... ...
 and exclaimed her exclaimed Margarita 'What .
 'If ? 'If I rightly understand , you 're hinting that I there may find out about him ?
 Azazello silently nodded .
 ' I go ! ' with force exclaimed Margarita and seized the Azazello by hand . ' I 'll go wherever you like ! '
 Azazello , with , leaned up against the back of the bench , covering big the letters name ` Niura , and saying ironically :
 'Difficult 'Difficult folk these women ! ' he put hands in pockets and way out stretched legs . 'Why 'Why for , instance , I was sent on this business ?
 should have gone 's Behemoth , he charmer ...
 Margarita said , crooked and bitter with : 'Stop 'Stop me me mystifying and tormenting your riddles . ... I an person unhappy , and you 're taking advantage it ...
 getting I into some strange story , but I swear , only 's because , you lured with me words about him ! My 's spinning spinning from all these puzzlements ... '
 'No 'No dramas , no dramas , making faces , returned Azazello , 'you in yourself my position also must put .
 To administrator a pasting , or give chuck an uncle out house , or gun somebody , or any 's other trifle in the - that my right . But talking with a love woman
 It 's I you half an hour been wangling ...
 So you 'll go ?
 ' I will , ' simply answered Margarita Nikolaevna .
 'Be good to accept this , said Azazello and , pulling from pocket round little golden box pocket , he offered it to Margarita with the words : 'Be ,
 It are 'Hide it , , Margarita Nikolaevna . you a lot aged from grief in the last half-year .
 Margarita flushed , but nothing flushed said , and Azazello went : 'Tonight 'Tonight past nine , at exactly half , be rub and take off rub this ointment face and all whole body .
 Then do you , whatever like , only n't go from the telephone .
 At ten I 'll you call and all need you know to tell you .
 You n't have to worry about , you be delivered where thing and wo n't be put to any trouble .
 Understood ? '
 Margarita was silent , then replied : 'Understood 'Understood . This thing is pure gold , tell by weight .
 So then , I perfectly understand well that I bribed and drawn into some 'm shady story for which I being pay dearly ... '
 'What 'What this ' almost hissed Azazello . 'You 'You again ?
 'No 'No wait , ! '
 'Give 'Give me back the ! '
 Margarita clutched tightly clutched in hand the box and her said : 'No 'No wait , ...
 I know 'm what getting into . But 'm getting into anything on account of him , because in world more hope for I no .
 But I want you to tell that that if if you me ruin , you 'll be ashamed !
 Yes , ashamed !
 I 'm perishing on account of love ! and perishing striking herself on the , Margarita glanced at the sun . 'Give it back Azazello 'Give back back and devil whole thing . Let them send Behemoth ` 'Oh no ! exclaimed Margarita , shocking rubbing ` agree to everything , agree to perform this comedy in rubbing ointment ointment , agree to go to devil the . n't 'Hah !
 suddenly shouted Azazello and , goggling his eyes at the fence garden , began pointing somewhere finger .
 Margarita turned to there , where was pointing Azazello , but nothing special found .
 Then she turned back to Azazello , wishing to get explanation of this absurd 'Hah 'Hah ! ' but to give an explanation was no one : 's mysterious interlocutor Margarita Nikolaevna had disappeared .
 Margarita quickly thrust hand into handbag , where before this shouting she the box , and made sure was it there .
 Then , on anything without reflecting , Margarita hurriedly ran of out Alexandrovsky Garden .
 The moon in the evening clear sky hung full , visible through the branches maple .
 Lindens and acacias drew ground in the garden intricate pattern spots .
 The window bay curtain , open but covered by curtain , was lit furious a electric light . In bedroom Margarita Nikolaevna were burning all the lamps illuminating the total disorder in room . On blanket on the lay lying shifts stockings , stockings and underwear Crumpled underwear was simply on floor next to crushed in excitement box of cigarettes .
 Shoes stood on the night table next to unfinished cup of coffee and an ashtray in which a was butt . over back of hung A black evening the dress chair .
 The room smelled perfume . Besides that , the was red-hot smell a red-hot perfume iron .
 Margarita Nikolaevna sat with front the in a pier-glass bathrobe bathrobe , thrown over naked body , and in suede black shoes .
 A gold bracelet with a lay in front of Margarita Nikolaevna beside the beside box had received from Azazello , and Margarita not did take eyes from .
 At times her it began to seem that that watch was broken and the hands not were moving .
 But they were moving , though very slowly , as if sucking , and last the big hand fell on twenty-ninth twenty-ninth the minute nine .
 's heart Margarita 's a terrible gave thump , so that she not could even right take the box .
 Having mastered herself , Margarita opened it and saw in the box a swamp yellowish cream slime . her It seemed that it smelted swamp .
 With the , Margarita put a rubbing small dab the cream on her palm stronger the swamp swamp grass and forest , and then she her palm began rubbing the cream into forehead and cheeks .
 The cream easily spread and , as it seemed Margarita , at once evaporated .
 Having several rubbed , Margarita glanced into the mirror and rubbed dropped the box right on watch , which which became covered cracks .
 Margarita closed her eyes , then glanced once again and stormy burst .
 Her plucked to with thread thread tweezers eyebrows thickened and in black greening arches greening arches lay over eyebrows eyes . The thin vertical crease , the bridge , which had appeared then , in October , when vanished master , without disappeared .
 So did the yellowish shadows at temples and two barely noticeable wrinkles at the outer corners her eyes .
 The skin cheeks filled out an pink colour , forehead became white and clear , and the hairdresser hairdresser waves hair came undone .
 thirty-year-old Margarita From the mirror a was naturally curly black-haired woman of about twenty , baring shaking , baring shaking teeth laughter .
 Having laughed , Margarita jumped out of bathrobe single with leap and freely dipped the light , cream vigorous strokes began rubbing it into the skin body . It once at and tingly .
 That instant , as if from brain snatched needle , temple all evening after the meeting in the Alexandrovsky Garden , muscles leg and arm muscles subsided grew , and then body Margarita 's became weightless .
 She sprang and hung in the air just above the rug , then slowly pulled down , and was descended . 'What 'What a cream ! What a cream ! ' cried Margarita , throwing herself into armchair .
 The rubbings changed her not only externally .
 Now in her in all , in every particle of body , was boiling joy which her felt , like bubbles prickling her body .
 Margarita felt herself free , free of everything .
 Besides Besides , she understood with perfect clarity that that was happening what the morning telling presentiment , and that she leaving her house and former her life forever .
 But from this former life even so split off a thought about the , of need fulfilling just one last duty before start something new , extraordinary , which pulling her upwards into the air .
 And she , as she naked from her bedroom , and in the air , ran flying to bedroom 's study husband and , turning on the , rushed to the desk . On a torn from a notebook page she without quickly and in big pencilled note corrections : : Forgive me me and as soon forget possible .
 I leaving you for ever .
 not Do look me , it is useless .
 I have become a witch from grief and calamities that have struck me .
 's me time go . Farewell .
 Margarita . With completely unburdened soul , Margarita came flying into the bedroom , and after her down ran Natasha , loaded with things .
 At once all these things a wooden shawls with a , shawls shoes , dark blue shoes on shoe-trees and belt - all of it spilled on the floor , and Natasha clasped her freed hands .
 'What 'What , nice ? ' loudly cried a hoarse voice Margarita Nikolaevna .
 'How 'How can it be ? whispered Natasha , backing away . 'How 'How you it do , Margarita Nikolaevna . '
 'It 'It 's the cream ! The cream , the cream ! ' answered Margarita , pointing to glittering the golden box and turning around in of the mirror .
 Natasha , forgetting the wrinkled on floor wrinkled wrinkled dress pier-glass , ran up to the and greedy , greedy lit-up eyes lips fixed her on the remainder of cream . lips Her something were whispering .
 She again turned to Margarita and said with a sort of awe :
 'And the skin ! The skin , 'And !
 Margarita Nikolaevna , your skin is glowing ! '
 But she came senses , ran to the dress , picked and began shaking it it .
 'Leave 'Leave it !
 Leave it ! ! shouted her Margarita . it 'Devil all Leave it !
 Or , no , keep it a as souvenir .
 , tell you souvenir .
 everything Take in the room ! '
 As if half-witted , the motionless Natasha for some time looked at Margarita , then hung kissing her on neck , kissing crying and crying :
 'Satin 'Satin !
 Glowing ! Satin ! And the eyebrows , the eyebrows !
 ` Take all rags , take drag perfume valuables to it the trunk , hide it , ` cried Margarita , 'but 'but valuables n't take , you of accuse stealing . ' Natasha grabbed bundled and her bundled came hand dresses shoes , perfume stockings , , stockings - and bundled ran out the bedroom .
 Just somewhere then from other end the lane somewhere out of open window , burst and flew thundering virtuoso waltz and was the chugging driving up to the gate car .
 ` now will Azazello ! exclaimed Margarita , listening to spilling the lane waltz ` call .
 'He 'He 'll call !
 And yes , now I the understand , that he dangerous dangerous !
 There car was a away from front gate .
 The banged gate , and on the tiles were heard steps path .
 'It ' 'It 's Nikolai Ivanovich , I recognize footsteps footsteps thought Margarita . I must do in farewell 's something funny and interesting ' .
 Margarita tore the and sat on the window-sill sideways , her arms knees .
 Moonlight Moonlight licked her from the right side .
 Margarita raised head towards the moon and her made a pensive and poetic face .
 The steps tapped twice more and then suddenly silence .
 After admiring the moon , sighing for propriety , Margarita turned her head to garden and indeed saw Nikolai Ivanovich , who lived on the bottom floor of the same house . Moonlight brightly poured Nikolai Ivanovich . He was sitting on a , and every was there indication that he had sunk to it suddenly .
 The pince-nez on his his face pince-nez somehow pince-nez was , and his briefcase he clutching in hands .
 'Ah 'Ah , hello , Nikolai Ivanovich . melancholy voice said Margarita 'Good evening !
 Coming from a meeting ? '
 Nikolai Ivanovich reply no made reply to that .
 'And 'And I , ' went Margarita , leaning out into garden , 'am sitting alone , as you see , bored , looking at the moon and listening to the waltz ' her left hand Margarita passed over temple , straightening a strand of hair , then her said crossly : ... That is impolite , Nikolai Ivanovich !
 'm still all I woman after !
 's It boorish not reply when to you someone talking . '
 Nikolai Ivanovich , visible in moonlight to last on grey wedge-shaped waistcoat , to last button the blond waistcoat , suddenly smiled a wild , rose beside from the bench and , apparently , beside himself with embarrassment , instead of taking off his , waved briefcase to side and knees bent , as if to knees break squatting into squatting .
 'Ah 'Ah , what you boring type , Nikolai Ivanovich Margarita 'Generally all I so sick , that I tell you even n't are , and so I happy to with you 'm be parting ! !
 Well , to the devil dam ! '
 Just then then behind back Margarita in the bedroom exploded the telephone .
 Margarita tore from the window-sill and , forgetting forgetting Nikolai Ivanovich , snatched the receiver .
 'Azazello 'Azazello , ' speaking came the receiver .
 'Dear 'Dear , dear Azazello ! ' cried Margarita .
 ` It time .
 Take off , ' `` liked Azazello into the receiver , and in tone his could heard , that he 's sincere and joyful impulse Margarita . `` 'When you fly over the gate , shout 'When Invisible ! ''
 Then fly over city to get it , and after head south , of out the city , and straight for river .
 You 're expected ! '
 Margarita hung up , and here in the next room something hobbled woodenly hobbled and started beating on the door .
 Margarita flung sweeping it and a broom , bristles up , dancing , flew into the bedroom .
 It drummed the on floor , kicking and straining towards the window .
 Margarita squealed with delight and jumped the broom astride broom .
 now Only in the rider the thought that she all this fracas forgotten get dressed .
 She galloped to the and grabbed first , some light blue a shift . Waving it like banner , she flew out the window .
 And waltz over the garden struck up louder .
 From the window Margarita slipped down and saw Nikolai Ivanovich on the bench .
 He seemed frozen to it and completely dumbfounded listened to shouting and crashing coming from lighted the bedroom the upstairs tenants .
 'Farewell 'Farewell , , Nikolai Ivanovich ! ' cried Margarita , capering in front Nikolai Ivanovich . He gasped and crawled along the bench , pawing knocking it his hands and knocking down his briefcase .
 'Farewell 'Farewell for ever !
 I flying away shouted Margarita above waltz .
 Here she realized that guffaw she any not need , and with sinister guffaw threw over it head Nikolai Ivanovich .
 The blinded Nikolai Ivanovich crashed to from the bench the bricks path .
 Margarita turned to last take look at the house where so long she had suffered , and saw in blazing window distorted with amazement face Natasha .
 'Farewell , Natasha ! ! cried Margarita and reared broom . 'Invisible ! Invisible , still louder cried she and between the branches maple , which lashed her at face , , flying over gates , she flew out into the lane .
 And after her flew completely insane waltz .
 Invisible and free !
 Invisible and free !
 After flying down own lane , Margarita her got into another that crossed the first at right angles .
 This darned , darned crooked , crooked and long lane with lopsided door kerosene shop , where they sold paraffin and liquid against parasites in flacons , she cut across in an instant and here she realized , that , even while completely free and invisible , still in pleasure had be at least somewhat reasonable . just some miracle slowed smashing , she missed herself smashing against an old lopsided street light at the .
 Dodging it , Margarita clutched clutched the broom and flew more slowly , studying the electric wires and hanging across the sidewalk .
 The third lane led straight to Arbat .
 Here Margarita fully became accustomed to controlling the broom , realized she , that it obeyed the slightest of hands and legs and that , flying over city , had be very attentive and not much act up .
 Besides Besides , it clear become already in the abundantly that the lady flier not did see .
 No one one threw shrieked head back , shouted 'Look 'Look ! Look ! ' , aside , shrieked guffawed or no dashed with wild laughter swooned .
 Margarita flew noiselessly , very noiselessly slowly and not high up , , approximately on level second-floor second-floor .
 But even with this slow flying , at the entrance to dazzlingly the dazzlingly lit Arbat , she slightly misjudged and shoulder struck against some illuminated disc with on it illuminated an arrow . This angered Margarita .
 She reined smashed obedient broom , flew a , and then , hurling herself at disc , butt broom smashed it to smithereens .
 Bits rained down with glass a Bits crash , passers-by rained shied , passers-by somewhere whistle came , and Margarita , having accomplished this unnecessary act , burst laughing .
 'On 'everything 'On the Arbat I must be more careful , thought Margarita , here such in snarl it , ca n't figure out ' .
 She began dodging between the wires .
 Beneath Margarita floated the roofs , buses trams and cars , and along sidewalks , as it seemed from above Margarita , floated rivers of caps . From these rivers branched streams and flowed into the flaming maws night-time of shops .
 'Eh 'You 'Eh , what a mess ! Margarita 'You here turn around n't ' .
 She crossed the Arbat , , rose higher , to fourth-floor the fourth-floor level , and , past dazzlingly dazzlingly bright tubes on the building theatre floated into a narrow lane with tall buildings .
 All the windows were them open , and everywhere came from the windows radio music .
 Out of curiosity Margarita peeked into one of them .
 She saw a kitchen . Two primuses were roaring on the range and next to them stood two women with spoons in hands , squabbling .
 'You toilet should turn after off the , 's what I 'm telling you , Pelageya Petrovna , ' said the woman before whom was a pot with some sort of eatables steaming in it steaming , 'or 'or else we to evicted have you 'll . '
 're yourself You good one the answered other woman .
 ` both You good ones , ` loudly said Margarita , clambering over window-sill into the kitchen .
 The two quarrelling women turned towards voice and froze with dirty their spoons in hands .
 Margarita carefully reached out between them , turned of both knobs primuses , and extinguished them .
 The women gasped and opened their mouths .
 But Margarita already was bored the kitchen and flew out into the lane .
 the end Her attention was attracted the magnificent eight-storeyed hulk eight-storeyed , obviously just-constructed just-constructed obviously an just-constructed building .
 Margarita dropped down and , alighting , saw that the facade building was covered black marble , that the doors were wide , that behind glass their glimpsed a cap with gold braid and peaked doorman and that over the door gold there was a inscription : 'Dramlit House 'Dramlit ' .
 Margarita squinted at the inscription , trying figure what might the mean word 'Dramlit 'Dramlit ' .
 Taking her broom under arm , Margarita walked into the lobby , shoving doorman the surprised the doorman , and saw beside on wall elevator a black huge board , and on it written white in letters numbers apartment and ' names tenants .
 The the list heading above ` House Dramatists and Dramatists Literary ' provoked Margarita a suppressed predatory suppressed scream .
 Rising in the air , she greedily began read the names : Khustov , Dvubratsky , Quant , Beskudnikov , Latunsky ...
 'Latunsky 'Latunsky ! ' shrieked Margarita .
 'Latunsky 'Latunsky !
 , 's he ! 's he ruined the master '
 The doorman at entrance board , hopping rolled out his eyes even hopping with astonishment , , gazed shrieking at the black , trying to understand the marvel : why the shrieking suddenly list of tenants ?
 But Margarita by that time already was going impetuously up the stairs , repeating in some sort of rapture :
 'Latunsky 'Latunsky ... eighty-four eighty-four ...
 Latunsky eighty-four eighty-four ...
 Here to the left - 82 , to right - 85 , further up , to the left - 84 !
 Here ! And name plate - ' 0 . Latunsky ' .
 Margarita jumped the broom , and pleasant her hot soles pleasant felt the the stone coolness landing .
 Margarita rang once , twice .
 But no one opened .
 Margarita began to harder push the button and could hear the jangling it set off in 's apartment Latunsky .
 Yes , to dying his should be grateful late Berlioz inhabitant apartment no.84 no.84 on the eighth floor for having chairman Massolit , fallen under a tram-car , and , that the memorial gathering been appointed precisely for that day evening .
 under a lucky star was critic Latunsky - it saved him from meeting meeting Margarita , became a witch Friday .
 No one opened the . Then at full Margarita raced down , counting the floors , bottom , reached burst out the and , looking up outside , counted and checked the floors from , guessing which were precisely the windows 's apartment Latunsky .
 Undoubtedly Undoubtedly Undoubtedly they were five the dark windows at corner of building on the eighth floor .
 Convinced of it , Margarita rose ran into the air and in a few seconds through an open window was into an unlit room , where where shone only a narrow path from the moon . down it Margarita , the switch . A moment later whole the apartment was lit up .
 The broom stood in a corner .
 After making sure that home no one was , Margarita opened the door to the and checked whether there name plate . The name plate was in place . Margarita she was where wanted be .
 Yes , they say that the to this day critic Latunsky rums pale remembering that terrible evening , and to this day with veneration utters the name Berlioz .
 is unknown what dark and vile criminal job have marked would this evening - returning from the kitchen , Margarita in hands her had a heavy hammer .
 Naked and invisible , the lady tried control and herself ; hands her trembled with impatience .
 careful Taking aim , Margarita struck at the keys of piano the , and through all the apartment a passed first plaintive wail .
 Becker frenziedly cried not 's drawing-room instrument .
 Its keys instrument caved , ivory The veneer flew howled in all directions . .
 With the noise of shot , split under a blow hammer the upper polished soundboard .
 Breathing hard Breathing , Margarita tore and mangled the the hammer strings hammer .
 Finally , getting left and she flopped into an armchair to catch .
 in terribly was roaring Water , and in bathroom the as well .
 'Seems 'Seems it already overflowing on the floor ' thought Margarita and added aloud :
 'No however sitting around 'No point . '
 from the kitchen into corridor already was stream .
 Splashing barefoot through the water , Margarita carried from the kitchen water to critic study and emptied them into buckets desk his drawers .
 Then , after smashing the hammer door the bookcase in the same study , she rushed to the bedroom . Shattering the wardrobe , she took suit critic 's and drowned it in the tub . A large bottle ink , picked up in study , she poured over luxuriously plumped-up double bed the .
 The devastation she wrought afforded her a burning pleasure , and yet her all while seemed that that results came out somehow meagre .
 Therefore she started doing whatever came along .
 She smashed smashed pots with pots ficus in the room grand piano .
 Before finishing that , she went back to the bedroom and a kitchen knife slashed the sheets , broke the framed photographs .
 fatigue She no felt , only the poured from her sweat streams .
 Just then then in apartment no.82 no.82 no.82 , , below 's apartment Latunsky , housekeeper the dramatist Quant was having tea in the kitchen , perplexed by from above clatter , running jangling and jangling .
 Raising head towards the ceiling , she suddenly saw it before eyes her changing white colour to some deathly blue . The spot widening swelled on her of and on it suddenly drops .
 For the housekeeper , marvelling this at phenomenon , until finally from the ceiling to began a real rain fall drumming on floor .
 Here she jumped up , put a under the stream , which at not did help , because the rain expanded and began pouring on the gas bowl stove and table with dishes .
 Then , crying , housekeeper Quant 's ran from the apartment to stairs and and at once in 's apartment Latunsky started bell ringing .
 ... Well , they ringing ... Time to ringing be , said Margarita .
 She sat the broom , listening to the female voice shouting through the keyhole keyhole :
 'Open 'Open up , open up ! Dusya , open door !
 your what Is , water overflowing ?
 We 're flooded ! '
 Margarita rose up a metre and hit the chandelier . Two bulbs popped and and in all directions flew pendants .
 The shouting the keyhole the stopped , on was stomping .
 Margarita floated through window , found outside the , swung lightly and the hit the hammer .
 The pane sobbed , and marble-faced marble-faced wall cascading went down splinters .
 Margarita flew the to next window .
 Far below , running people on the sidewalk , the two parked by the entrance cars one honked and drove off .
 Having finished with 's windows Latunsky , Margarita floated to the neighbour 's neighbour apartment .
 The blows became more frequent , the lane was filled crashing and jingling .
 out main doorman entrance ran The doorman , looked hesitated , hesitated , evidently evidently not grasping first what he to undertake , whistle to lips furiously and furiously started whistling .
 To the particular of whistle passion this whistle with last window on eighth the floor , , Margarita demolished dropped down to the seventh and started smashing the windows there .
 Weary prolonged idleness behind the glass doors of the entrance , the put into whole soul , precisely precisely following he Margarita as if accompanist her .
 In pauses as she flew from window to window , he he draw his puff , and at each strokes Margarita puff cheeks , dissolve , drilling night the air to the sky .
 His efforts , combined with the efforts of infuriated the Margarita , yielded great results .
 in the house There was panic .
 Those intact windows were flung , in them appeared 's heads people and once hid , the open windows , on the contrary , were being closed .
 In the across buildings , windows lighted background there appeared the dark silhouettes people trying to understand why for no all reason were windows bursting in new building the Dramlit .
 In the lane people ran rushing to House Dramlit , and inside , on all stairways was stamping rushing with no reason or sense people .
 's housekeeper Quant 's shouted those running up the stairs , that they flooded , and she soon was joined by 's housekeeper Khustov from apartment no.80 no.80 no.80 , located just below apartment Quant 's .
 At Khustov was pouring from both in the kitchen and the toilet .
 Finally , in Quant a fell huge slab plaster plaster dishes from , breaking all dirty dishes , after which came a real downpour , from the wet hanging gushing as if from bucket .
 Then on the steps main the entrance began shouting .
 Flying peeked past penultimate window penultimate fourth of floor , Margarita peeked in and saw a man who in panic had pulled on a gas mask .
 Hitting the with his hammer , Margarita scared him , and he disappeared from the room .
 And unexpectedly the wild havoc ceased .
 Slipping to the third floor , Margarita peeked into window , covered by a dark curtain .
 In the room was burning little weakly lamp under shade .
 In small a bed with net sides sat a boy of about four , timorously listening .
 grown-ups no were in the room , evidently evidently all they run out of the apartment .
 They breaking the windows , said the boy and called : 'Mama 'Mama !
 No one answered , and then he said : 'Mama 'Mama afraid , I 'm afraid .
 Margarita drew the curtain and flew in .
 ' I 'm afraid , , afraid trembled the boy and trembled .
 'Do n't be afraid , n't be afraid , little one , ' said Margarita , trying to soften her husky from the wind , criminal voice . 'It some boys windows breaking . '
 'With 'With slingshot ? asked the boy , ceasing to tremble .
 ' With slingshot , with a slingshot , confirmed Margarita , 'and 'and you go sleep .
 's Sitnik , `` said the boy , `` he a slingshot . '
 ' Well , of course 's he !
 The boy looked somewhere slyly somewhere the to side and asked : 'And 'And are you where , ma'am ?
 ' I 'm nowhere , ' answered Margarita , ' I your dream . '
 ' I thought so , ' said the boy .
 'Lie 'Lie down now , ordered Margarita , 'put 'put your hand under cheek , and I your 'll go being dream . '
 'Well 'Well , , agreed the boy and at once lay down and hand put his under cheek .
 ` I tell you a story . Margarita and placed hot cropped hand on his cropped head , ` was a certain lady ...
 And she no had children , and happiness either generally no .
 And so she she first for a cried , and then became wicked ... Margarita fell silent and took her hand - the boy was asleep .
 Margarita quietly placed the hammer on the window-sill and flew out the window .
 There the building was turmoil .
 On the asphalt asphalt pavement strewn with broken glass , were running and something shouting people .
 among them already were flashing Policemen flashing .
 Suddenly a rang bell , and from Arbat into lane drove a red fire-engine the fire-engine with ladder .
 But what followed longer no interested Margarita .
 Taking aim , to not brush against any ill-fated wires , she clutched tightly clutched broom and in a moment was high above the ill-fated house .
 The lane beneath her went askew and plunged away .
 In place it feet Margarita 's appeared a mass roofs , under criss-crossed shining paths .
 all It unexpectedly went off to side , and the strings of lights smeared and merged .
 Margarita made more one spurt and and whole the mass roofs fell through earth , place it a appeared of below lake quivering electric lights , and this lake suddenly rose up vertically and then appeared over head 's Margarita , while under feet flashed the moon .
 Realizing that that she flipped , Margarita resumed a normal position and , glancing back , saw that that there lake longer no , and that there behind her , was remained only pink glow glow on the horizon .
 That , disappeared a second later , and Margarita saw that that she was with flying her above the moon .
 's hair Margarita 's long had been standing up , and the whistling moonlight moonlight bathed her body .
 Seeing Seeing two rows widespread fiery rows lights merge into two unbroken lines , seeing how quickly they vanished behind , Margarita realized amazed that her she was flying at enormous an speed and was amazed that she not was breath .
 After a few seconds far up below , in earthly blackness , a flared new glow of electric lights and hurtled under feet flying woman , but immediately spun whirligig and spun fell into earth .
 A few seconds - the same phenomenon .
 'Towns 'Towns !
 Towns ! ' cried Margarita .
 after that times Two or three she saw her below dully gleaming sabres sheaths lying in open black sheaths and realized that that these were rivers .
 Turning head up and to left , the flying woman admired the way the moon madly raced over her , raced back towards Moscow and at the same time strangely strangely stayed in place , so that admired there seen on it something mysterious , dark a dragon , or little humpbacked horse , its sharp muzzle turned to the abandoned city .
 Here Margarita came depriving thought , that , in fact , her so furiously broom she depriving herself opportunity anything properly seeing , of properly revelling in flight .
 Something told that in the place she was flying , her waited and that was no her become bored with this insane speed and height .
 Margarita turned the bristles forward , so that 's tail its rose up , and , slowing down , headed right for the earth .
 This downward glide , as on an airy sled , gave her the greatest pleasure .
 earth The rose meet her , and in hitherto formless black density the revealed its charms and secrets on a moonlit earth night .
 The earth was coming to her , and Margarita already was enveloped scent of greening forests .
 Margarita was flying above the mists of a dewy meadow , then over a pond .
 Under Margarita a chorus sang frogs , and somewhere far away , for some deeply stirring her heart , came a train .
 Margarita Soon saw it . It was crawling slowly like caterpillar , spraying into the air sparks .
 Going ahead it , Margarita passed yet over another watery , in which floated under her feet second mirror moon , dropped and went on , nearly touching tops the tops of the huge pines .
 A heavy noise of ripping air came from behind and began overtake Margarita . gradually To this noise of something flying like a cannon ball was audible for many miles around woman 's guffaw .
 Margarita looked back and saw her catching some complex dark object . As nearer Margarita , it more distinct - became seen person a flying . And finally it quite became distinct . slowing down , came abreast of Natasha .
 she Completely Completely naked , her flying the air dishevelled hair hoofs , flew threshed astride a clutching hog briefcase , clutching in front hind hoofs a , while his hind desperately clutching threshed the air .
 Occasionally gleaming the pince-nez in moonlight , then gleaming fading pince-nez that fallen sliding off his nose , flew beside the hog on a string , and the kept sliding hog over his eyes .
 Taking a look , Margarita recognized the hog as Nikolai Ivanovich , and then laughter her rang out over the forest , mingled with the laughter of Natasha .
 'Natashka 'Natashka ! ' piercingly shouted Margarita . 'You 'You rubbed with the cream ? '
 'Darling 'Darling ! ! awakening with awakening the sleeping pine forest replied Natasha . queen 'My French queen , I on him smeared bald head , on his !
 'Princess 'Princess ! ' tearfully shouted hog , galloping his rider .
 'Darling 'Darling !
 Margarita Nikolaevna ! ` cried Natasha , riding beside beside Margarita , ` confess , I took the cream !
 , We want live and to fly !
 Forgive me , my sovereign lady , I n't back , anything not !
 Ah it , good , Margarita Nikolaevna ! He propositioned me propositioned , ' Natasha began jabbing finger the into neck abashedly huffing hog , 'propositioned 'propositioned !
 you What me called , eh ? ' shouted she , leaning the towards hog ear .
 'Goddess 'Goddess ! ' howled the , ' n't ca I so fast fly !
 I important papers may , Natalya Prokofyevna , I protest ! '
 'Ah 'Ah take you and your papers ! devil devil '
 shouted Natasha shouted brazen guffaw .
 , hear someone us ! imploringly hog yelled .
 Flying laughingly beside beside Margarita , Natasha laughingly told her what happened happened in the house after after Margarita Nikolaevna flew off over gates .
 Natasha confessed in that , without touching any the given things , she threw with her clothes and rushed herself to the cream , immediately smeared . with her happened same as with her mistress . The Just as Natasha , laughing revelling with joy , was revelling before the mirror her own magical beauty , the door opened , and before appeared Nikolai Ivanovich .
 He was agitated ; in his hands he was holding 's Margarita Nikolaevna and his own shift hat and briefcase .
 Seeing Natasha , Nikolai Ivanovich was dumbfounded .
 some Getting of himself , all red lobster as lobster , he announced he that to pick up the little shift and personally bring it ...
 things he said , the blackguard ! Natasha shrieked and laughed . things he said , tempted !
 The money he promised !
 He said Klavdia Petrovna never learn it .
 Well , speak , lying ? ' shouted Natasha the to hog , who only abashedly turned away muzzle .
 In mischief the bedroom , Natasha dabbed some cream on Nikolai Ivanovich and herself was with astonishment .
 The respectable ground-floor tenant face shrank to pig snout , and hands and feet acquired little hoofs .
 Looking at himself in the mirror , Nikolai Ivanovich desperate and wild howl , but was already it late .
 A few seconds later he , saddled , was flying where to devil out of Moscow , sobbing with grief .
 ` I demand restored my me normal appearance ! hog frenzy supplication , frenzy supplication and grunted supplication hog . ` I not going to fly to any illegal gathering !
 Margarita Nikolaevna , your it duty call order your housekeeper ! '
 'Ah 'Ah , so I now 'm a housekeeper ?
 A housekeeper ? cried Natasha , pinching the hog . 'And 'And be goddess ?
 you me What was called ?
 'Venus 'Venus ! ' the tearfully replied hog , flew over bubbling between a brook bubbling between stones , his little brushing hoofs the hazel bushes .
 'Venus 'Venus !
 Venus ! triumphantly cried Natasha , triumphantly stretched one hand hip the other stretched towards the moon . 'Margarita 'Margarita !
 Queen !
 Intercede for me so that I a witch !
 They you anything do , you have power granted ! ' And Margarita responded : 'All 'All right , I promise . '
 Thank you ! ' exclaimed Natasha , and suddenly she cried sharply and somehow longingly : 'Hey 'Hey ! Hey !
 Faster !
 Faster !
 Come , speed '' '' She dug heels the which into insane hog sides , and he tore so that again ripped the air , and a moment later Natasha only could seen in the distance , as black speck , then completely vanished , and the noise her flight melted .
 Margarita flew as slowly through the deserted and unfamiliar place , over hills boulders strewn strewn with occasional boulders among huge spaced pines . Margarita . flew not over the tops of pines but between their trunks , on one side silvered the moon .
 The light shadow woman of glided glided over ground the ahead now the moon shining on back Margarita 's .
 Margarita sensed the proximity water and guessed that goal was near . The pines parted , and Margarita slowly rode through the air to a chalk cliff .
 Beyond this cliff down , in shadows , lay a river .
 Mist hung clinging clinging to the bushes on the cliff , but the opposite bank was flat and low .
 On it , under a solitary group of spreading trees , the a bonfire and flickered could seen some moving small figures .
 It seemed that that from there was some nagging merry , merry little tune .
 Further , as as could the , on silvered the plain no there was of sign habitation or people .
 Margarita leaped off the cliff and quickly descended to water .
 The water enticed her after her airy race .
 Casting the broom , she ran herself and threw into water first head .
 light Her body like arrow pierced the water , and the column water almost reached the moon .
 The water turned be warm as in bathhouse , and , emerging from depths , Margarita swam in the total solitude night in this river .
 There near Margarita no one no was , but a further away behind bushes , grunting heard splashing and splashing grunting - there also someone was swim .
 Margarita ran out the bank .
 body Her was fire after the swim . fatigue She no felt , and joyfully was capering on the moist grass .
 Suddenly she stopped dancing and pricked her .
 The grunting came closer , and from behind the willow bushes emerged some naked black man with silk , pushed back on his head .
 His feet were covered slimy slimy mud , which made seem that swimmer wearing black shoes .
 Judging by his huffing and hiccuping , he was properly drunk , as , incidentally , was confirmed the fact that river suddenly began to smell of cognac cognac .
 Seeing Margarita her , the man peered peered and then joyfully shouted :
 ` What this ?
 Who is I see ?
 Claudine , 's it you , ungrieving the widow !
 , You here ? ' and her he came greetings .
 Margarita stepped back and with dignity replied :
 'Go 'Go the to devil devil !
 What am I to you Claudine ?
 Watch you out who 're talking to , ' and , after reflection , she added to her words a long , unprintable oath .
 All this had a on light-minded fat man sobering effect .
 'Ah 'Ah ! ` softly exclaimed he and exclaimed gave , ` forgive magnanimously , bright Queen Margot !
 I mistook someone else .
 The 's blame cognac , curse it curse ! ' fat man lowered himself to one hat , the , made a bow and , mixing Russian phrases with French , some nonsense about the bloody wedding of his friend in Paris Guessard , and about the cognac , and about his being mortified mortified sad mistake .
 ` Why you put trousers on , you bitch , ` said , softening Margarita .
 The man joyfully grinned , seeing that Margarita not was , and rapturously declared that he without trousers at the moment only because he in his absent-mindedness left them on River the Yenisey , where he swimming just before , but that he presently presently fly was there it at hand close , and then , entrusting himself favour and patronage , began back went and he until slipped and slipped fell into the water .
 But even as fell , he kept framed in small side-whiskers face a rapture of rapture and devotion .
 Margarita Here piercing gave whistle and , mounting the flew broom , her crossed to the opposite bank .
 The shadow shadow chalk mountain that far not did reach , and the whole bank was flooded moonlight .
 As soon as Margarita touched the moist grass , music under the willows struck up louder , and a the flew sparks merrily the from pussy bonfire .
 Under the branches , strewn tender , fluffy catkins , visible in moonlight , sat two rows rows fat-faced frogs puffing as they rubber , playing on pussy-willow wooden pipes a bravura march .
 Glowing marsh-lights hung in on willow twigs front the musicians , lighting music ; the frogs danced restless light faces .
 The march was played in honour of Margarita . She given was most solemn reception .
 Transparent naiads stopped their dance weeds over the river and waved Margarita weeds , and across the deserted , greenish bank moaned far-audible far-audible their greetings .
 Naked pussy witches willows , jumping from behind the willows , formed curtseying a line and began curtseying and curtseying making courtly bows .
 Someone goat-legged flew up and bent to hand , spread on the grass silk inquired whether swim the queen , invited down and lie rest .
 Margarita just did that .
 The goat-legged offered her a glass of champagne , she drank it , and heart her warm became .
 Having inquired about 's whereabouts Natasha , she received reply reply that Natasha already her swim and flown on her hog ahead to Moscow , to warn them that that Margarita soon would , and to help prepare her attire .
 's short stay Margarita 's under the willows was marked one by episode : in the air was whistling a , and a black body , obviously missing its , dropped into water .
 A few moments before Margarita there stood that same fat side-whiskerist who so had unsuccessfully introduced himself on the other bank .
 He managed to apparently get to the Yenisey , for he was in full evening dress , though wet from head to foot . The cognac done him another turn : as down , he he all landed the in water .
 But smile his he not did lose even on this lamentable occasion , and him laughing Margarita to her hand .
 Then they all started getting ready .
 The naiads finished their dance in the moonlight moonlight and melted into it . The goat-legged deferentially inquired of Margarita how how she come to river . learning that that she had come on broom , said :
 'Oh 'Oh , but why instantly , it inconvenient , slapped from two twigs some dubious-looking dubious-looking telephone and instantly demanded of someone very minute be sent a car , which was done , actually , that same minute .
 the island came down An open car , only in the driver seat there sat no ordinary-looking ordinary-looking sorrel driver , but a long-beaked rook in an cap and oilcloth gauntlets .
 The island deserted .
 The moon-blaze moon-blaze flew melting melting witches .
 The bonfire bonfire was down , and the coals were covering hoary coals ash .
 The one sorrel goat-legged helped Margarita , and she sank on to the wide back seat sorrel car .
 The car roared , , sprang and climbed almost to the moon ; island vanished , vanished river , Margarita was racing to Moscow .
 The steady humming car , flying high above the earth , lulled Margarita , and the moonlight moonlight her pleasantly warmed .
 Closing her eyes , she offered her face to the wind and thought certain with a sadness about behind she unknown the bank river , which which she sensed she never again would see .
 After all the sorceries and wonders that evening she already guess , whom to visit she taken , but that not did frighten her .
 The hope that there she would manage to to regain her happiness made her fearless .
 However , long dream in the car of this happiness she not was .
 the rook Either well knew his job , car was a good one , but but soon Margarita opened eyes and her saw beneath her not the forest darkness , but quivering sea of Moscow lights .
 The black bird-driver in flight unscrewed the right front wheel , then then landed the car in some completely deserted cemetery in the area Dorogomilovo .
 Having deposited unquestioning the Margarita by one of graves along with her broom , rook started the car , aiming it straight into ravine beyond the cemetery .
 into it It noisily tumbled and there perished .
 The rook deferentially saluted , mounted the wheel and flew .
 at once from behind one of tombstones A appeared black cloak .
 A fang fang flashed in the moonlight , and Margarita recognized Azazello .
 He gestured gestured inviting Margarita her get on the broom , , He jumped to a long rapier himself , they both whirled and anyone , unnoticed in a few seconds , landed near no . 302-bis on Sadovaya Street .
 When carrying broom and the rapier , the companions passed the gateway , Margarita noticed languishing there man in a and high boots , probably someone waiting .
 Light though were footsteps Azazello and Margarita , the solitary man them heard and twitched uneasily twitched , not understanding who who them had produced .
 a second surprisingly surprisingly the like first man they met the sixth entrance .
 And again repeated itself the same story . Footsteps ... man frowned uneasily turned frowned and uneasily .
 when And the door opened closed and , he dashed after the invisible enterers , peeked into front hall , but nothing of course , nothing saw .
 A third man , the exact copy second , and therefore therefore also of first , stood watch on the landing third-floor third-floor .
 He smoked coughing strong a cigarettes , and Margarita had coughing walked as walked past him .
 The smoker , as if a pricked , jumped from the bench he on was sitting , began uneasily turning around , went to banister , down .
 Margarita and her companion by that time already were at door of apartment no.50 no.50 .
 not They . Azazello noiselessly opened the door his with own key .
 first thing that struck was the darkness in which she found herself . was , as It underground cloak , that Margarita involuntarily clutched at 's cloak Azazello for fear of stumbling . But then from far away and above flickered the of some lamp and began to approach .
 Azazello as walked took from under broom Margarita 's the , and it disappeared without a sound in the darkness .
 Here they started climbing some wide steps , and Margarita began to think there them end no be .
 She was struck that that the front hall ordinary Moscow of apartment could contain this extraordinary invisible , yet quite palpable endless stairway .
 But the climb ended , and Margarita realized she that was on a landing .
 The light came up right in , and Margarita saw the a face man , long and black , holding in his hand a little lamp .
 Those who who been had unfortunate in recent days to cross with him paths , even the faint tongue of flame lamp the flame lamp , would have certainly recognized him . It was Koroviev , alias alias Fagott .
 True , 's appearance Koroviev quite was changed .
 The flickering was reflected not in cracked pince-nez , , which which long time had throw the in trash , but in a monocle , true , also cracked .
 The moustache on insolent face was twirled and waxed , and 's blackness Koroviev was explained quite simply - he was in insolent formal attire .
 was Only his chest white .
 sorcerer , interpreter , choirmaster devil he knows what really was bows - Koroviev made bows and , , broad with sweep the lamp in the air , , invited Margarita to follow him .
 Azazello disappeared .
 'An ' amazingly 'An strange evening , thought Margarita , I expected but anything this .
 electricity , what Has , their gone off ?
 But the most striking is size of the place ...
 How all it be squeezed into a Moscow apartment ?
 There simply it be way no could ' ...
 However little gave out light Koroviev 's lamp , Margarita realized that that she was in absolutely enormous an hall , besides besides with colonnade , dark and on first impression endless .
 some sort of little settee Koroviev stopped by , placed gestured his lamp on some sort of post , gestured Margarita her sit , and his himself beside in a picturesque attitude , leaning on the post .
 'Allow 'Allow me to introduce you , ' creaked Koroviev , 'Koroviev 'Koroviev .
 You are surprised surprised there no light ?
 Economy , so you , of course , think ?
 Unh-unh !
 May first the executioner executioner , even one of those who who this later will have honour kissing lop your knee , on this very post lop my head if it so !
 simply Messire n't does like electric light , and we 'll save it for the very last moment .
 And then , believe me , there lack of it no be .
 Perhaps Perhaps better be to it have less . '
 Koroviev liked Margarita , and rattling his rattling chatter had a effect on her soothing .
 'No 'No , replied Margarita , 'most 'most of I struck that there all this 's . ' She her hand , emphasizing the enormousness the hall .
 Koroviev grinned sweetly grinned , which shadows stir in the folds of his folds nose .
 ` The most uncomplicated of all ! ` replied he .
 'For 'For someone well acquainted with fifth the dimension , nothing to costs expand space to the desired proportions . I 'll say more , respected lady - to devil knows what proportions !
 I , however , `` went chattering Koroviev , `` have known people who had no idea , not only of the fifth dimension , , but generally of anything and at nevertheless nevertheless who performed wonders in absolute expanding their space .
 Thus , for instance , one city-dweller , as I 've been told , obtained a three-room apartment on Zemlyanoy Val , without any fifth dimension or other things that the brain , instantly transformed it into four-room apartment by dividing half one room with a partition .
 forthwith that He exchanged for two separate one apartments in different parts of Moscow ` one of three , the other of two rooms .
 You must agree that that makes five .
 The three-room one he exchanged for two separate of two ones rooms and became the owner , as you see yourself , six rooms , true , of scattered in total disorder all over Moscow . He just ready wanted getting perform last and most brilliant leap , advertising in the newspapers to that exchange six rooms in different parts of Moscow for one five-room apartment on Zemlyanoy Val , when his activity for independent of him reasons ceased .
 probably , He now also has some of room , only I venture you to assure it is not in Moscow .
 A ma'am , slicker , and you slicker keep talking about the fifth dimension ! '
 Margarita Though had never talked about the fifth dimension , and kept talking about it himself Koroviev , gaily she laughed , hearing the story of the adventures of the apartment slicker .
 Koroviev on went : 'But 'But to business , to business , Margarita Nikolaevna .
 You woman quite an intelligent and of course already have guessed , who our host is . '
 's heart Margarita 's thumped , and she nodded .
 Well , so ma'am , so , said Koroviev , we enemies of any of reticence and mysteriousness .
 annually Messire gives one ball .
 It is called the spring ball of full , or ball of the hundred kings .
 Such a crowd ! ... here Koroviev held his toothache as if he had cheek toothache .
 . , Messire bachelor , as you , of course , , yourself yourself understand .
 Yet a needed hostess , ' Koroviev spread arms , you agree , 'without a hostess ...
 Margarita listened to Koroviev , trying to not miss single word ; her heart felt cold , the hope of happiness made spin her head .
 'The 'The been tradition established , said further Koroviev , 'that the hostess ball must without fail the be named Margarita , first , and second , she must be a place native .
 And we , you kindly note , are travelling and at the present moment are in Moscow .
 hundred one twenty-one twenty-one Margaritas found We in Moscow , and , would you believe it , ' here Koroviev with despair slapped himself on thigh , 'not 'not one was suitable !
 And , last , a happy fate ...
 Koroviev grinned expressively grinned , inclining body , and again went cold heart Margarita 's .
 'In 'In short ! ' cried Koroviev out 'Quite 'Quite shortly : you n't refuse to take upon yourself this responsibility ? '
 ' n't I refuse ! ' firmly replied Margarita .
 'Done 'Done ! ' said Koroviev and , raising the lamp , added : ' Please follow me .
 They walked between the columns and finally came to another another hall , in which for reason strong lemons , where was heard brushed some rustlings and something brushed Margarita 's against head .
 She her gave a . 'Do n't be frightened , ' sweetly reassured Koroviev , taking Margarita under arm , 'it 's contrivances Behemoth , that all .
 And generally I allow the myself boldness afraid advising you , Margarita Nikolaevna , never anything to be afraid .
 It is unreasonable . The ball will magnificent , not will conceal from you it .
 We will see persons the scope power whose in their own time was extremely great .
 But , , once you think how microscopically small were their possibilities compared to possibilities to whose retinue I have the honour belonging , seems ridiculous and , even I would say , ridiculous sad ...
 And , besides you are of royal blood . '
 'Why 'Why of royal blood ? ' fearfully whispered Margarita , pressing herself to Koroviev . 'Ah 'Ah my , Queen , ' playfully rattled Koroviev , 'questions 'questions blood most the complicated questions in the world !
 And if were question certain great-grandmothers , especially those those , who enjoyed a reputation shrinking violets , astonishing secrets uncovered would , my respected Margarita Nikolaevna !
 I I the not would sinning in if , in speaking of that , should make reference a whimsically shuffled pack of cards .
 There are things in in which any have neither the barriers nor even borders between countries .
 A hint : one of the French queens who lived in sixteenth century , would must suppose be very amazed , if one someone told her that that her lovely great-great-great-granddaughter I after all these years would be leading on arm Moscow through ballrooms ballrooms .
 But we 've arrived ! '
 Here Koroviev blew out his lamp , and it vanished his from hands , and Margarita saw lying on floor front her a streak light under some of dark door .
 And on this door Koroviev softly knocked .
 Here Margarita became chattered so agitated that chattered her teeth and down her spine ran a chill .
 The door opened . The room turned be very small .
 Margarita saw a wide oak dirty bed with dirty bunched-up and rumpled bunched-up sheets sheets pillows and pillows .
 Before the bed was oak carved legs table , on which stood candelabrum with with sockets claws in the form sockets a bird 's claws . In these seven golden claws claws burned thick wax candles .
 Besides that , on the table was large a chessboard chessboard with pieces workmanship of extraordinarily artful .
 A small , shabby shabby rug stood shabby rug .
 was yet another table candelabrum with some golden bowl and another candelabrum with branches of in form snakes .
 The room smelled sulphur and sulphur pitch . Shadows from the lights criss-crossed on floor .
 Among those present Margarita immediately recognized Azazello , now now dressed in tailcoat and standing at the head of the bed .
 The dressed-up Azazello longer no resembled resembled that bandit in form whose he Margarita in Alexandrovsky the Garden , and bow his Margarita was very gallant .
 A naked naked witch , that same Hella who so embarrassed the respectable barman Variety , and - alas - the same who so fortunately fortunately been scared cock on night the notorious sance , sat on rug on floor the a , stirring in pot something which gave off sulphurous steam .
 Besides these , there was also in room a sitting on a high tabouret before the chess table huge black tom-cat , , holding in right paw a chess knight .
 Hella rose bowed and bowed to Margarita .
 The likewise did cat , jumping off tabouret . Scraping his right hind paw , he dropped crawled the knight and crawled after it under the bed .
 all this sinking perfidious with fear , Margarita , made the perfidious candlelight by candlelight .
 eyes Her were drawn the bed , on which sat he , whom quite still recently poor Ivan at Patriarch 's the Ponds had tried convince to that that the devil not does exist .
 this non-existent one was sitting on the .
 Two eyes were fixed Margarita 's 's face .
 The right one with a golden spark at its bottom , drilling anyone the to bottom of soul , and left one the empty and black , like the narrow , like entrance to the bottomless all darkness shadow and darkness shadow .
 face The Woland 's was twisted to one side , the right corner of the forehead drawn down , the high , bald was running deep wrinkles parallel to wrinkles . face Woland 's as if for eternity burned the .
 Woland broadly sprawled on the bed , was wearing patched a long nightshirt , dirty and patched on left the shoulder .
 One bare leg was him tucked under , the other was stretched on the little bench .
 the this dark leg was rubbing some smoking ointment Hella .
 also made Margarita on , hairless hairless chest Woland a artfully from bared dark stone carved beetle on gold chain and with some inscriptions on its back .
 Beside Beside Woland a , on heavy stand , stood a strange , as if alive , lit on one side the sun globe .
 a few seconds lasted .
 'He 'He 's studying me ' , thought Margarita and with an effort will she tried to control the in her legs .
 At last Woland began to speak , smiling , which his sparkling eye as if to flare .
 'Greetings 'Greetings you , Queen , and beg you excuse to my homely attire . '
 The voice Woland was so low that on some syllables it drew wheeze into syllables a .
 Woland took from the sheets a long sword , leaned down , poked it under sheets the bed and said : 'Out 'Out with you !
 The game is cancelled .
 The has arrived guest . '
 'By 'By no means , ' anxiously piped prompter-like prompter-like , at ear Margarita 's Koroviev .
 'By 'By 'By no means ... ' began Margarita .
 'Messire 'Messire ... breathed Koroviev into her ear .
 ` By no means , Messire , ` gaining over herself softly , but distinctly replied Margarita and distinctly smile she added : ` I beg you not to interrupt game .
 I imagine imagine the chess journals would pay good money for the chance it to publish . '
 Azazello a low but approving gave grunt , and Woland , intently looking at Margarita , observed as if to himself : 'Yes 'Yes , right Koroviev .
 How whimsically has shuffled deck shuffled !
 Blood !
 He reached out hand and beckoned to him Margarita . She went up , not feeling the floor under bare feet .
 Woland placed his heavy , as if made stone , and at the same time hot , as fire , hand on shoulder Margarita , pulled her towards him and sat on the bed by his .
 ` Well , since you so charmingly courteous said he , ` and I else nothing not expected on ceremony . He again leaned over the side the bed and cried : ` 'How long will stand continue this circus under the bed ?
 Come out you , confounded confounded Hans ! '
 ' knight the n't I find , muffled and muffled false voice responded from under the bed , ridden 's off somewhere , and instead some frog getting . '
 ` You imagine do you , 're at some fairground fairground ? ` pretending be pretending angry , asked Woland . 'There no frog 's under the bed !
 Leave these cheap tricks for the Variety .
 If you n't appear once , we 'll consider that that you forfeited , you damned deserter ! '
 'Not 'Not for anything , Messire ! yelled the cat and that same second got out from under the bed , , holding in paw knight .
 'Allow 'Allow me present ... began Woland and himself himself interrupted : 'No 'No , I simply look not can this buffoon buffoon .
 See ! what he himself turned into under the bed '
 Standing the on hind legs , dust-covered cat meanwhile meanwhile was his to Margarita .
 There now on neck the cat was a white bow-tie , and neck a ladies bow-tie glasses on strap .
 What more , whiskers the cat 's were gilded .
 ` what this now ? exclaimed Woland . ` Why you gilded whiskers whiskers ?
 And what the devil you need the trousers , when you wearing trousers ? '
 ' trousers cat not is supposed , trousers Messire , with great dignity replied cat . 'You not 're are you me wear boots wear trousers boots ?
 Puss-in-Boots Puss-in-Boots Puss-in-Boots exists only in fairy tales , Messire .
 But seen have you ever anyone bow-tie at ball without bow-tie ?
 I do not intend put in ridiculous a situation and risk myself being chucked out !
 Everyone adorns himself with what can .
 You consider I said what the referring well to glasses , Messire ! '
 'But 'But the whiskers ? ...
 ' n't I do understand , ' retorted . 'Why 'Why today Azazello and Koroviev were put shaving themselves white powder powder , and how is that better gold ?
 I powdered whiskers whiskers , that 's 's all !
 different it matter be would , If 'd I myself shaved !
 shaved cat - A , indeed outrage , a thousand times prepared to admit it .
 But generally , ' here voice the cat touchily quavered , ' I see that I the object of a certain captiousness , and I see that before stands captiousness a serious problem - attend am me to the ball ?
 What you have to say about that , Messire ? '
 And the offence so got puffed that it seemed in another second he burst .
 'Ah 'Ah , the cheat , the cheat , shaking , said Woland . 'Each 'Each time game his in hopeless crudest situation , he starts addling your pate like the crudest mountebank on street corner .
 Sit down once and stop slinging this slinging verbal muck . '
 ` I sit down , ` replied the cat , sitting down , 'but enter your regard last .
 speeches My resemble in way no muck , as you pleased to put in the presence of lady , but rather a sequence tightly tightly packed syllogisms , which appreciated by would the merit such connoisseurs as Sextus Empiricus , Martianus Capella , , for know , and himself Aristotle . 'Your 'Your is king , ' said Woland .
 Very well , very well , he chessboard and began his chessboard glasses studying the opera .
 'And 'And so , addressed to Woland Woland Margarita , ` present you , Donna I my retinue . This one playing fool is cat Behemoth .
 and Azazello and Koroviev you already have met , maidservant I my Hella present . efficient , quick , and is no service she not she can render . '
 The beautiful Hella was smiling as she turned to Margarita Woland her green-tinged eyes , without ceasing dip into the ointment and apply it to knee .
 'Well , 'Well the lot , concluded Woland wincing , as Hella especially hard pressed on his knee . company , as you see A small , mixed and guileless . '
 He fell silent and began to spin front him the globe , which was made so artfully that the blue oceans on it moved , and the cap at the pole lay like a real ice and snow .
 On the chessboard meanwhile meanwhile , was confusion .
 thoroughly A upset king in a white mantle was shuffling on his square , desperately raising arms .
 Three white pawn-mercenaries chargers with halberds perplexity gazed at the bishop brandishing crozier and pointing forward to where on two adjacent squares , white and black , could seen black pawn-mercenaries horsemen Woland on two fiery , pawing hoofs squares their hoofs .
 Margarita was extremely interested and struck the fact that the chessmen chessmen were alive .
 The cat , taking from his the glasses , lightly prodded his king in the back .
 The king in despair covered his face hands .
 ` 'Things are my , great dear Behemoth , quietly said Koroviev venomous in voice . ` The situation is serious but by no means no hopeless , responded Behemoth . 's more , I quite certain of final victory .
 Once analysed the situation . '
 this analysing He set about analysing rather a strange manner , namely by winking making all sorts of faces and at his king .
 'Nothing 'Nothing 'Nothing helps , observed Koroviev .
 'Aie 'Aie ! ` cried Behemoth , ` the parrots flown away , as I have predicted ! '
 Indeed , somewhere far from away came the noise many wings .
 Koroviev and Azazello rushed out room .
 ` Devil you take with your ball amusements ! ` grunted Woland his without tearing from his globe .
 As soon as Koroviev and Koroviev Azazello disappeared winking Behemoth 's took on greater dimensions .
 The white king finally understood what of him was wanted . suddenly pulled off his mantle , dropped it on the square and ran off board .
 The bishop abandoned the royal 's garb covered himself and took place king .
 Koroviev and Azazello came back .
 'Lies 'Lies , as usual , ' grumbled Azazello , with glance at Behemoth .
 ' I I thought heard it , replied the cat .
 'Well 'Well , long this going to continue ? asked Woland . 'Your king .
 ' I , must have heard wrong , my 'My master . replied cat king is and be not not can . '
 ' I repeat check , your is king ! '
 ` Messire , a falsely alarmed voice , ` 'you overtired . not My king . '
 king on The square G-5 , without is looking the board , ' said Woland .
 'Messire 'Messire , I 'm horrified ' howled cat , showing horror on his mug . on that is square no king !
 ` What 's that ? ` in perplexity asked Woland and began looking the at board , where the standing on king 's the square bishop turning away and hiding behind his hand .
 'Ah 'Ah , you scoundrel , scoundrel pensively said Woland .
 'Messire 'Messire ! I Again appeal to logic the began cat , pressing paws to his chest . 'If 'If player announces king , and king meanwhile meanwhile in is on the board , the check must be recognized invalid !
 'Do 'Do you give up or not ? ' cried a terrible voice Woland .
 ` Let me think it , ` humbly replied cat putting elbows on the table , his paws ears over paws ears and beginning think .
 thought for He long time and finally said : ' I give up .
 obstinate beast The whispered Azazello .
 'Yes 'Yes , I give up , said cat , ` but I do so only because unable am play in atmosphere of persecution persecution on part the envious ! ' He stood up and the chessmen chessmen climbed into their box .
 'Hella 'Hella , it time , said Woland , and Hella disappeared from the room .
 'My leg hurts , and now this ball ... continued .
 'Allow 'Allow me , quietly Margarita . Woland quietly intently looked at her and moved his towards her knee .
 The liquid , as lava , burned her hands , but Margarita , without wincing , trying not cause any pain , rubbed it into his knee .
 'My 'My attendants insist that 's rheumatism , was saying Woland , not taking his eyes off Margarita , 'but 'but I strongly suspect that this pain in knee was left me as souvenir a charming witch with whom I closely was acquainted in the on Brocken 's Mount , , on Podium . '
 'Ah 'Ah , can so that be ! ' said Margarita .
 'Nonsense 'Nonsense !
 hundred In three years it will go away !
 I been recommended host medications , but I old keep to my granny 's ways .
 Amazing herbs herbs she left that old thing , , my grandma !
 Incidentally , tell me , you suffering from are anything ?
 Perhaps you have some sort of soul-poisoning anguish soul-poisoning soul-poisoning or ? '
 'No 'No , Messire , none that of , replied clever Margarita , 'and 'and now that I with you , I feel myself myself quite well . '
 'Blood 'Blood is a great thing , no obvious point gaily said Woland and added : ' I see you 're interested in my globe . '
 'Oh 'Oh yes , , I never seen anything . '
 ` It nice nice object .
 I Frankly speaking listening , n't enjoy the to news the radio .
 It reported pronounce always some girls who inarticulately pronounce names places .
 Besides Besides , every third one they has slight defect , as if chosen .
 My globe much more is convenient , especially since events I need knowledge of precise .
 For do instance , you see this chunk of land , side the ocean ?
 Look 's , it filling with fire .
 there started war .
 If you look closer , you 'll see the details colours . ' Margarita leaned towards the globe and saw the square land spread out , many painted and it as into a relief map .
 And then she saw the ribbon river , and some village near it .
 A house the size of a pea grew and became size of a matchbox .
 Suddenly and noiselessly the roof this house flew up along with black smoke , and the walls collapsed , so that of two-storey the box nothing nothing was left , except a heap with from it pouring black heap smoke .
 Bringing her eye , Margarita made out a small female figure lying on the ground , and next her in a pool blood outstretched arms little child .
 'That 'That it , smiling , said Woland , 'he 'he no had time to sin .
 's work Abaddon impeccable .
 ' I n't want to would be on the side that against is this Abaddon . said Margarita 'Whose on 'Whose is he side ? '
 The longer I talk with you , amiably responded Woland , 'the 'the more I 'm convinced that you very are intelligent .
 I 'll set you ease .
 He a rare impartiality is impartiality and equally sympathizes both fight sides .
 Owing to that , results for both sides are always the same .
 Abaddon ' low voice called Woland , and here there from wall emerged the figure some gaunt man in the dark glasses . These glasses produced on Margarita such a strong strong impression that that she softly out and cried hid her face in 's leg Woland 's .
 ` 'Ah stop it ! cried Woland . are nervous Modern people . ` He slapped Margarita on the back so that through her body went ringing .
 'Do you see he his glasses ?
 Besides Besides , never yet been an occasion , and never be , when Abaddon appears before someone prematurely .
 And And , finally , I 'm here .
 You to you are guest ! I simply wanted to show . '
 Abaddon stood motionless .
 'And 'And possible for him take off glasses for a second ? ' asked Margarita , pressing herself to Woland and shuddering , but now from curiosity .
 'Ah 'Ah , , that 's impossible , seriously replied Woland and waved hand at Abaddon , and he no more .
 `` What you wish to say , Azazello ? '
 'Messire 'Messire , replied Azazello , 'allow me to say here got we two strangers : a beauty who whimpering and pleading to her to stay with , and also there with her , begging your pardon , her hog .
 'Strange 'Strange behaviour a beauty ! observed Woland .
 'It 's 'It Natasha , Natasha ! ' exclaimed Margarita .
 'Well 'Well , let stay with her lady .
 And the the cooks . '
 ` slaughter ? fearfully cried Margarita . ` pity , Messire , it 's Nikolai Ivanovich , the tenant .
 It 's misunderstanding , she , you see , daubed him with the cream ...
 'But 'But said Woland , 'why the devil 'why would anyone him slaughter ?
 Let stay with the cooks , that 's 's all .
 You can , agree , I him let into ballroom ballroom . '
 'No 'No ... added Azazello and announced : ` Midnight is approaching , Messire .
 'Ah 'Ah , good . ' Woland turned to Margarita : 'And 'And so , very you ... I beforehand please thank you .
 n't Do become flustered and anything n't flustered be .
 Drink nothing Drink groggy , but water , otherwise you and you will groggy hard .
 It time !
 Margarita got up from the rug , and then in the doorway appeared Koroviev .
 Midnight was approaching ; they hurry .
 Margarita dimly perceived her surroundings . remained Candles and a jewelled pool .
 As Natasha stood in bottom of this pool , Hella with assistance of doused her some hot , thick and red with liquid .
 Margarita felt salty taste on lips and realized that that she washed in blood .
 The bloody mantle was changed another - thick transparent , , pinkish - and Margarita 's began head from rose oil .
 Then Margarita was laid on a crystal couch and until shone rubbed with big some green leaves .
 Here the burst cat and started to help .
 He squatted at down feet Margarita 's and began rubbing her soles with the someone of shining shoes in street .
 Margarita not does remember who who stitched her from petals pale rose slippers . or how these slippers got fastened golden clasps .
 Some force snatched Margarita her and put before a , and in hair her gleamed royal a diamond crown .
 from somewhere oval-framed appeared Koroviev and hung breast Margarita a heavy , oval-framed a chain picture black poodle on heavy .
 This adornment extremely burdensome was burdensome the queen . The chain once at began to chafe her neck , picture the pulled her down . But something compensated Margarita for the inconveniences that her the caused chain with the black poodle , this the deference began treat her Koroviev and Behemoth .
 'Never 'Never , never ! ' muttered Koroviev at door of the room with the pool . 'No help 'No it , , mind must , mind must ...
 Allow me , Queen , you to give a last advice .
 Among the guests will different , oh , very different , but no one , Queen Margot , should any shown preference !
 Even if n't someone do n't like ... I understand will that you , of course , not show it on your face ... no , no , unthinkable unthinkable it !
 He notice it , he notice it instantly !
 You must love him , love him , Queen !
 The will be rewarded for that mistress ball .
 And also - do n't ignore anyone a ! At least smile , if there 's time to drop word , at least tiny a turn the head !
 Anything you like , but but not inattention , from that they sicken ...
 Here Margarita , accompanied by Koroviev and Behemoth , stepped out of the room into total darkness .
 ' I , I , ' whispered cat , ' I give the signal ! '
 'Go 'Go ahead ! ' replied from the darkness Koroviev .
 The ball ! ' piercingly shrieked the cat , and just then Margarita shrieked cried out and for a few seconds shut her eyes .
 The ball fell on her all in the form light , , with it of sound and and of smell .
 Taken the under arm by Koroviev , Margarita saw herself in a tropical forest .
 Red-breasted green-tailed green-tailed parrots parrots fluttered from liana liana and liana and deafeningly cried : 'Delighted 'Delighted 'Delighted ! '
 But the forest soon ended , and its bathhouse stuffiness at once changed to the coolness of ballroom ballroom with columns of some yellowish sparkling , sparkling stone .
 This ballroom , just just like the forest , was completely empty , except the columns were standing naked negroes with silver bands on their heads .
 faces Their turned a dirty brown excitement from excitement , when into ballroom flew Margarita with her ballroom retinue , in which from somewhere showed up Azazello .
 Here Koroviev let go arm Margarita 's and whispered : 'Straight 'Straight to the tulips .
 A low wall of white tulips grown up front of Margarita , and beyond it she saw numberless lamps under shades tailcoaters and behind them the white chests and black shoulders tailcoaters .
 Then Margarita understood where where was coming the ball sound .
 The crashed down roar of trumpets , and the burst from under it soaring that violins doused her her body as with blood .
 The orchestra men about a hundred playing a polonaise .
 The tailcoated hovering over the orchestra man , seeing Margarita , smiled , paled and suddenly sweep of arms got feet the whole orchestra .
 Not a the moment Not interrupting music , orchestra , standing , doused the Margarita with sound .
 The man over the orchestra turned from it and bowed his , wide spreading arms , and Margarita , smiling , waved him hand .
 'No 'No , enough , enough , ' whispered Koroviev , 'he 'he n't wo sleep all night .
 Call out him : `` Greetings you , king waltz !
 Margarita cried out it and marvelled , that her voice , full as bell , was the the orchestra .
 The man with happiness started and his left hand put to his chest , right while went brandishing baton orchestra a white .
 'Not 'Not enough , enough , ' whispered Koroviev , 'look 'look to the left , to first violins , and nod so that each one thinks 've you him nod recognized individually .
 here only are world celebrities .
 Nod that ... at first the stand , 's Vieuxtemps ... There , very good ...
 Now , onward ! '
 'Who 'Who the conductor ? ' flying off , asked Margarita .
 'Johann 'Johann Strauss ! cried from cat . 'And me they hang in a tropical forest a liana if at an any ball ever played such orchestra !
 I invited them !
 And , note , not one got sick or one declined ! '
 In next the room no were columns . Instead there stood walls of red , pink and milk-white roses on one side , and on other wall Japanese double camellias camellias .
 Between these walls fountains , hissing fountains , and champagne spurted seethed spurted in three pools , of which was the first transparent violet , second ruby , third crystal .
 Next to them dashed negroes in scarlet headbands , scarlet dippers filling from pools flat cups cups dippers .
 The pink wall had gap , where in it on was flailing man in a red swallowtail swallowtail coat platform . Before him thundered unbearably loud jazz band .
 As soon as the conductor saw Margarita , he bent touched before her so that hands touched floor , then straightened and piercingly cried : 'Hallelujah 'Hallelujah !
 He slapped himself on the one then then criss-cross the other - two snatched from hands the end musician a cymbal and banged it on a column .
 , Margarita she saw only that that the virtuoso jazzman , fighting against the blowing Margarita in 's back , was beating the heads jazzmen his the cymbal while they cowered in comic fright .
 Finally they flew out to the landing where , as realized Margarita , she in the dark been met by Koroviev with little lamp .
 Now on this landing the blinded light pouring from clusters crystal grapes .
 Margarita was put in place , and under left arm under she found low a amethyst column .
 'You arm 'You may rest on it your if it becomes too difficult ' whispered Koroviev .
 Some black man threw under feet Margarita 's a pillow with a golden pillow poodle , and on it she , obedient 's hands , bent placed , her right the leg knee .
 Margarita tried to look around .
 Koroviev and Azazello stood beside beside her in formal poses .
 Next to Azazello another three young men , vaguely vaguely reminding Margarita of Abaddon .
 It back blew cold . Looking there , Margarita saw her from bubbly the marble wall behind spurt bubbly wine and pour into ice pool .
 At her left foot she felt something warm and furry . It was Behemoth .
 Margarita was high , and from her feet descended a grandiose stairway covered carpet .
 Below , so far that if Margarita were looking wrong binoculars way through binoculars , she saw a vast hall with absolutely enormous fireplace , into cold and the black maw of which could easily a five-ton front truck .
 The hall and stairway , so hurt the eyes flooded light it , were empty .
 The trumpets now came to Margarita from far away .
 Thus they stood motionless about a minute .
 'But 'But where are the guests ? ' asked Margarita Koroviev .
 'They 'They come , Queen , , they come .
 of them There lack no 'll .
 And , really , I 'd go rather chop wood than receive them here on the landing . '
 'Chop 'Chop ' wood garrulous cat . ' I 'd rather work conductor a tram , and there than that job 's no in the world !
 ` Everything must be made ready advance , Queen , explained Koroviev , gleaming his eye gleaming through the broken monocle . `` There nothing 's more loathsome , than when the arrive first guest languishes , not knowing what him do , and his lawful beldame whisper nags him for else come before everybody .
 Such balls should be thrown in trash , Queen . '
 'Definitely 'Definitely in trash , confirmed the cat .
 `` till midnight 'No more than ten seconds , said Koroviev . `` presently It start . '
 Those ten seconds seemed to Margarita extremely long .
 Obviously Obviously they had passed already and and precisely nothing had happened .
 But here something half-decayed suddenly crashed dangling downstairs in the huge fireplace , and from it leaped a gallows with dangling from it half-decayed remains .
 The remains fell from the rope , struck the floor , and from it leaped a handsome dark-haired man in tailcoat and a patent leather shoes .
 out fireplace A ran half-rotten little coffin , lid its fell off , and out of it tumbled another remains .
 The handsome man gallantly leaped to it and offered arm bent . second remains put itself together into a fidgety woman in black shoes , with black feathers on her head , and then both the man and woman hastened up the stairs .
 The first ! ' exclaimed Koroviev . 'Monsieur Jacques and his spouse .
 I commend to you , Queen , one of the most interesting men .
 A a counterfeiter , , but rather good alchemist .
 Famous 'for , ' whispered in ear a Margarita Koroviev , having poisoned king 's mistress .
 does That n't everyone happen !
 Look is how handsome ! '
 The pale Margarita , front , disappeared into her watched as in some side passage gallows gallows and coffin .
 'Delighted he 'Delighted the yelled right into face up the stairs Monsieur Jacques .
 At that moment the from fireplace emerged a headless with torn-off a arm skeleton , , struck the and turned into a man in tailcoat .
 spouse Monsieur Jacques 's already was going before Margarita on one knee and , pale with excitement , kissing 's foot Margarita 's .
 ` Queen ... ` murmured spouse Monsieur Jacques 's .
 The queen is delighted ! cried Koroviev .
 ` Queen ... handsome quietly said the handsome Monsieur Jacques .
 We 're delighted , ' howled the cat .
 The young men , companions Azazello , smiling lifeless but but affable smiles , already were shouldering Monsieur Jacques and his spouse to side , towards the cups of champagne that the negroes were holding one holding .
 the tailcoat was coming up the stairs The single man .
 'Earl 'Earl Robert , whispered to Margarita 'Koroviev , 'interesting 'interesting ever .
 Note how , funny , Queen the reverse case : this one was a lover queen 's and poisoned his wife .
 'We 'We glad , Earl , ' cried Behemoth .
 Out fireplace coffins one after another tumbled , bursting and falling apart , three coffins , then came someone in a black mantle , whom next one run out of the black maw stabbed in the back with knife .
 below A was heard stifled cry .
 out fireplace ran almost entirely decomposed corpse fireplace .
 Margarita shut her eyes , and someone 's hand held to her nose a flacon of smelling salts . Margarita thought was the hand Natasha 's .
 The stairway began to fill up . there Now on each step were , looking quite alike and tailcoaters naked women with them , who differed each from other only the colour feathers on heads and .
 towards Margarita Coming was , hobbling , a strange wooden nunnishly boot on left foot , lady with a nunnishly nunnishly lowered eyes , thin and modest and for some reason with a wide green band around her neck .
 'Who 'Who is this green one ? ' mechanically asked Margarita .
 ' A most charming and respectable lady , ' whispered Koroviev , I commend you : Madame Tofana . Extremely popular among young lovely ladies Neapolitans , as as ladies of Palermo , well especially the those who them had grown weary their husbands .
 does It happen , Queen one , that weary 's husband '
 'Yes 'Yes , ' hollow replied Margarita , at the same time smiling two tailcoaters who who one after the other bent before her , kissing knee and hand .
 'And 'And so , ' managed to whisper Koroviev to Margarita and at the same time to cry someone : 'Duke 'Duke A glass champagne ! ?
 I 'm delighted ! ...
 Yes , so then , Madame Tofana entered into situation these poor women and sold them some sort of water in little vials .
 The wife poured this water into soup her spouse , he it ate , thanked for nice , and felt being perfectly .
 True , a few hours he would begin very thirsty to get , later then he go to bed , and a day lovely Neapolitan who had her husband soup would be free , as the spring breeze . '
 'But 'But what that on her on foot ? ' asked Margarita , tirelessly tirelessly offering hand the guests who of the hobbling Madame Tofana . 'And 'And 'And why that green band ?
 A withered neck ? '
 'Delighted in 'Delighted , Prince ! cried Koroviev and at the same time whispered to Margarita : ` A beautiful neck , but her unpleasantness happened in prison . on foot she has , Queen , Spanish boot , , and the band is this way : when the prison guards learned that that some five hundred ill-chosen ill-chosen husbands had departed Naples and Palermo for ever the , they of strangled Madame Tofana in prison .
 'How 'How I happy , kindest Queen , that me fallen the high honour nunnishly whispered Tofana , trying to lower herself to one knee . Spanish boot hindered her her . Koroviev and Behemoth helped up . ' I glad , answered her Margarita , at the same time offering her hand others .
 Now the stairs from below a was stream .
 Margarita could no longer see what was going on in the front hall .
 She mechanically raised her and lowered hand and uniformly smiled to the guests .
 in the air on the landing There was hum ; from the Margarita ballrooms ballrooms , like sea , heard music .
 ` But one this a boring woman , no longer whispered , but aloud whispered spoke Koroviev , knowing that in the hubbub voices him would no hear . ` adores balls and keeps dreaming complaining about her handkerchief .
 Margarita 's picked glance among those coming up the woman at whom was pointing Koroviev .
 She was young beautiful She about twenty , remarkably , but with somehow restless and importunate eyes .
 'What 'What handkerchief handkerchief ? ' asked Margarita .
 ` to She chambermaid has assigned , explained Koroviev , ` 'who for thirty years has putting her her during night on table a night handkerchief .
 She wakes and the is there .
 She burning it in the stove and drowning it in river , but nothing nothing helps . '
 'What 'What handkerchief ? ' whispered Margarita , raising and lowering arm .
 ' A blue-bordered blue-bordered blue-bordered one .
 The thing is that when when she worked a in cafe , the owner once her invited to the pantry , and later nine months she gave birth a boy , , stuffed him to the forest and took stuffed his into handkerchief , then buried the boy in ground .
 At the trial she said she no feeding the child .
 ` And where is the owner of the cafe ? ` asked Margarita .
 ` Queen the , suddenly creaked from below , I ask with , 'what does it the owner ?
 It was he who smothered the infant in the forest ! '
 Margarita , without ceasing to smile and proffer her right hand , the sharp nails the left dug into Behemoth 's 's ear and whispered him : ` If you , scum , again allow yourself to yourself interfere in the conversation ...
 Behemoth in ball-like not very ball-like fashion squeaked and rasped : 'Queen 'Queen ... the ear will swollen ... why spoil the ball a swollen ear ? ...
 I was speaking legally the ... from legal of view ...
 I no more , I say more . Consider me not a cat but a post , only let my go ear !
 Margarita released his ear , and the importunate gloomy , gloomy eyes were before her .
 ' I am happy , Queen-hostess , be invited to great the ball ! '
 'And 'And I , ' answered her Margarita , 'very glad see you . 'very you glad ?
 What doing are you Queen ? !
 There 'll jam a Koroviev ' desperately but soundlessly cried in ear Margarita Koroviev . 'll be traffic !
 'Yes I 'Yes do , imploringly the woman and suddenly mechanically began repeating : 'Frieda 'Frieda , Frieda , Frieda !
 My name is Frieda , , Queen ! '
 'Get 'Get do drunk , Frieda , and about anything n't think , ' said Margarita .
 Frieda reached out both arms to Margarita , but Koroviev and Behemoth very adroitly took the her under arms , and she blended into the crowd .
 Now from below solid wall were coming people , as if storming the landing where stood Margarita .
 Naked women 's bodies came up between tailcoated men . towards Margarita floated Their swarthy , coffee-bean-coloured black , coffee-bean-coloured and altogether bodies . In hair - flax , black , chestnut , red as the flood light glittered danced and glittered danced , spraying sparkles flax precious sparkles stones sparkles .
 And as if someone had sprinkled storming the column of men droplets of light , with chests sprinkled sprayed light diamond studs chests .
 now Margarita Every second felt she lips touch knee , every second held out hand to greeting , face her was contracted into a mask greeting .
 ' I 'm delighted , monotonously sang Koroviev , ... 'we delighted the queen is delighted ... '
 ' The queen is delighted echoed behind nasally her back Azazello .
 ' I 'm delighted the kept exclaiming cat exclaiming .
 The marquise , ` 'muttered Koroviev , ` poisoned her father , two brothers and two sisters for the inheritance ...
 The queen is delighted ! ...
 Madame Minkin ... Ah , what a beauty !
 A bit nervous .
 Why the bum maid 's face the curling-irons with curling-irons ?
 Of course , in such conditions stabbed ... ...
 The queen is delighted ! ...
 Queen The , one second attention ! emperor Rudolf - sorcerer and alchemist ...
 Another alchemist - hanged ...
 Ah , here she !
 Ah , what a wonderful brothel brothel ran she in Strasbourg ! ...
 We 're 're delighted ! ...
 A Moscow dressmaker , we all her love for inexhaustible her fantasy She kept a shop and invented terribly funny a : drilled two round the holes in wall ...
 'And 'And ladies n't did know ? ' asked Margarita .
 'Every 'Every one knew , them Queen , answered 'Delighted Koroviev . ... 'Delighted ...
 This twenty-year-old boy from childhood was distinguished by strange qualities eccentric , dreamer and eccentric .
 him fell A girl , and he went and sold her to a brothel brothel '
 from below A came river and end in this river no was to sight . source Its - enormous fireplace - continued it to feed .
 Thus one passed hour and a commenced second . Here Margarita began to notice that chain her become heavier than before .
 Something strange happened also with her arm . Now before before , to raising it , Margarita had wince .
 's interesting 's observations Koroviev ceased amuse amuse Margarita .
 Slant-eyed Mongolian faces faces , white and white black became undifferentiated , at times they merged , and the air between them for some reason begin to tremble and flow .
 A sharp pain , as if from a needle , suddenly pierced 's right arm Margarita 's , and , clenching elbow , she rested elbow the post . Some rustling , as if from against the walls , was coming now from the ballroom , and was it clear that that there were dancing unprecedented hordes ballroom guests , and Margarita seemed that that even massive prodigious marble , mosaic and of this prodigious room rhythmically were pulsing .
 Neither Gaius Caesar Caligula nor Messalina longer nor interested Messalina Margarita , did any of kings , dukes , cavaliers poisoners , suicides poisoners , procuresses , gallowsbirds and poisoners , and sharpers , prison executioners , , madmen , sleuths seducers .
 All their names became jumbled in head , faces stuck together into one huge pancake , and only a lodged painfully in memory face , framed truly a fiery beard - face Maliuta Skuratov .
 's legs Margarita 's kept giving , at any moment she was afraid bursting tears .
 The worst suffering her was caused right knee , which kissed . It became swollen , the skin turned , even though several times 's hand Natasha appeared by this knee with a sponge , something fragrant wiping it .
 At the end third hour Margarita glanced down completely desperate with eyes and joyful gave thinning - the stream of guests was thinning .
 'Balls 'Balls laws 'Balls assemble , Queen whispered Koroviev , always to .
 'Presently will subside 'Presently wave .
 Here 's group of revellers Brocken revellers . they always come final last . Yes , here they .
 Two drunken vampires ... that all ?
 Ah , no , 's more one ... no , two ! '
 The stairs were coming two last guests !
 'It 'It 's some new one , was saying Koroviev , squinting through his lens . 'Ah yes 'Ah , yes .
 once Azazello visited him and over the cognac whispered him advice , how to get rid of a certain man whose exposures exposures he extremely was afraid .
 And so he told an acquaintance who was on him dependent to spray walls the office poison '
 'What 'What his 's name ? ' asked Margarita .
 'Ah 'Ah , really , I myself yet n't do know , ' replied Koroviev , 'we'11 have to 'we'11 ask ask Azazello . '
 'And 'And who is with him ?
 'Why 'Why , that same efficient his subordinate .
 Delighted ! ' cried Koroviev the last two .
 The stairway was empty .
 precaution They waited .
 But from fireplace else no one came .
 A second later , without knowing how how it happened , Margarita found herself in the same room with the pool and there , at bursting the from tears pain in her arm and leg , she collapsed the right on floor . But Hella and Natasha , comforting her , again drew her under the bloody shower , again massaged her body , , and Margarita revived revived .
 `` There , more , Queen her Margot , whispered appearing Koroviev . must fly around the rooms , so that the honourable guests n't feel been they abandoned . '
 And Margarita once more flew out of the room with the pool .
 On the stage behind the tulips , where playing orchestra king waltz , now there raged ape jazz band .
 A huge , shaggy side-whiskers gorilla with shaggy a trumpet in hand , heavily side-whiskers capering , was .
 in a row Orang-utans blowing sat blowing on shiny trumpets . on shoulders their were merry chimpanzees with trumpets concertinas .
 Two hamadryads with lions like lions played grand pianos , but these grand pianos not were heard amidst the thundering and squeaking squeaking booming of saxophones , fiddles and fiddles in paws gibbons mandrills , gibbons mandrills and marmosets .
 On the floor a countless number couples , merged , amazing deftness cleanness and cleanness their movements , turning swept in the same direction , wall swept threatening everything clear in its path .
 Live satin butterflies bobbed above dancing hordes , from the ceiling poured down flowers .
 In the capitals the columns , time the went electricity , lit myriads fireflies marsh-lights , and in the air floated marsh-lights .
 Then Margarita found herself in a monstrous size pool with bordered by colonnade .
 A giant black Neptune spouted from maw a wide pink stream . stupefying smell champagne rose the from pool .
 Here held unconstrained merriment sway .
 Ladies , laughing , their swallow-like handbags gave handbags their to cavaliers or negroes who rushed with towels in hands , and with a cry dived into pool . Foamy columns shot up below . The crystal bottom pool shone light that broke through the wine , and in it could seen the silvery swimming bodies .
 The ladies got out of pool completely drunk .
 Loud laughter resounded under the columns laughter booming , like the jazz band .
 from All this turmoil was remembered was the completely drunken a woman with senseless , even in their senselessness imploring , eyes , and was recalled one name - Frieda - .
 head Margarita began to spin from smell of wine , and she was about to leave , when the cat arranged a in the pool number that detained her .
 Behemoth performed some by maw Neptune 's , and at once the hissing and billowing gurgling billowing mass champagne champagne left the pool , and Neptune began spewing neither glittering nor but stream foaming a dark-yellow colour .
 ladies shrieking and screaming The 'Cognac ! rushed hid from pool-side pool-side behind the columns .
 In a few seconds pool was the filled , and the cat , three times turning in the air , dropped into heaving the cognac .
 crawled He , spluttering , spluttering whiskers spluttering whiskers glasses , , gilding the his whiskers with his glasses .
 example Behemoth 's dared to follow Only one that same - frolicsome dressmaker , with her cavalier , an unknown young mulatto . The two threw themselves into the cognac , but here Koroviev took the Margarita under arm , and they left the bathers . Margarita It seemed that she flew somewhere somewhere , where she saw in huge stone basins mountains oysters .
 Then she flew over a glass infernal floor with burning under it infernal furnaces and darting among them devilish white cooks .
 Then somewhere she , already ceasing to anything comprehend , saw dark cellars , where burned sizzling some of red-hot lamps coals , where girls served sizzling on red-hot coals mugs meat , where was drunk from big mugs her health .
 Then she saw polar bears playing dancing a concertinas and Kamarinsky on platform . A salamander-conjurer who not burn in fireplace ... And for the second time strength her began ebb .
 'One 'One last appearance , ` whispered her anxiously Koroviev , ` and then we free ! '
 she in Accompanied by Koroviev Accompanied again found in ballroom the ballroom , but now in it no was dancing , and the guests a numberless throng pressed back between the columns , leaving the middle room .
 Margarita not did remember who who helped to her get up on the dais that appeared in the middle of this open space room .
 When she was up on it , she , to amazement her , heard somewhere strike clock midnight , it long past , by her reckoning was .
 At the last stroke of no knew where which came clock , silence fell on the crowd guests .
 Then Margarita again saw Woland .
 He walked in surrounded by Abaddon , Azazello and others several who resembled resembled Abaddon - dark-haired and young .
 Margarita Now saw that that opposite her dais had been another for Woland . But he it not did make use .
 What struck Margarita was that Woland came out for this last great appearance at ball looking the same as he in the bedroom . The same same dirty patched shirt hung on his his shoulders slippers , feet were in worn-out bedroom slippers .
 Woland had a sword , but this bare sword he used as a cane , leaning on it .
 Limping , Woland stopped at his dais , and immediately immediately Azazello was before him with a platter in his hands , and on this platter Margarita saw severed head man with severed the knocked front teeth .
 Total continued a silence front , broken by only once once far-off the far-off sound coming , inexplicable under the circumstances doorbell , as if from the hall .
 `` Mikhail Alexandrovich , `` low the addressed Woland the head voice , and then eyelids slain man rose , and on slain the dead face Margarita , with shudder , saw filled with thought and suffering eyes .
 `` 'Everything came pass , not did ? `` went Woland , looking into the eyes head . head was cut woman , the meeting did not take place , and am living I in your apartment .
 That is a fact .
 And fact the most stubborn thing in world the .
 But now we interested in what follows , and not this already already accomplished fact .
 You always been an ardent preacher the theory that on the cutting of head life in man ceases , he turns to ashes and goes into non-being .
 I have pleasure informing you , in the presence of my guests , though they serve as proof of quite a different theory , , that your theory is solid good and clever . However , , one theory is as another .
 There is it also one which holds that to each will given according his to faith .
 Let it true !
 You go into non-being , and I joyfully from the cup into which you are be transformed , drink to being ! '
 Woland raised his sword . Straight away the of the head turned shrivelled and shrivelled , then fell off pieces flesh , the eyes disappeared , and soon Margarita saw on the platter yellowish with emerald skull eyes , pearl teeth a golden a foot .
 The lid opened on a hinge .
 ` Right this second , Messire , said Koroviev , noticing questioning look Woland 's , ` 'he 'll appear before you .
 I can hear In this sepulchral sepulchral silence the of clink his patent leather shoes and the goblet the goblet he set down on the table , last time the in his life drunk champagne .
 Here is he . '
 A heading towards Woland , was the room new solitary guest .
 Outwardly he not did differ way from numerous the other male guests , except one : this guest literally reeling with agitation , which could be seen even .
 on his cheeks Flushed burned Flushed spots , and his eyes darted in total alarm .
 The guest was dumbstruck , and that was perfectly perfectly natural : he was astounded everything , and above all , course , attire Woland 's .
 However the met was guest kindness utmost kindness .
 ` 'Ah , my dearest Baron Meigel , , affably smiling , addressed Woland the guest , whose eyes his were popping out head . ` I happy to commend you , turned Woland to guests , 'the 'the esteemed Baron Meigel , , an employee esteemed the Spectacles Commission in charge acquainting foreigners the with places of interest in capital .
 Here Margarita froze , because she recognized this Meigel .
 She several times had come him in theatres Moscow and in theatres restaurants .
 'Excuse 'but 'Excuse me ... ... thought Margarita , he that means - what 's also dead ? ' But matter straight away clarified .
 'The 'The dear baron , went Woland , smiling joyfully smiling , 'was 'was so charming , that , having learned of my arrival in Moscow , once he rang me , offering acquainting his services along his expertise , that is acquainting with places of interest .
 It goes saying that I was happy to invite him here . '
 Just then then Margarita saw Azazello hand the platter with the to Koroviev .
 'Ah 'Ah , , yes , Baron , suddenly intimately lowering voice said Woland , 'rumours about extreme your curiosity .
 They say that it , combined with your no less developed talkativeness , was beginning attract general attention . more , wicked tongues already tongues dropped the word stool-pigeon and spy . And still more , is hinted that that this will bring you to a sorry end no more than a month .
 And so , in order to yourself from this painful anticipation , we decided to come to your aid , taking of the the fact that you invited you here precisely with purpose of eavesdropping and spying whatever you can . '
 The baron turned paler , than Abaddon , who was exceptionally exceptionally pale by nature , and then took something strange place .
 Abaddon stood front the baron and a second took off his glasses .
 At the same moment something flashed in hand Azazello , something softly clapped , baron began fall backwards backwards , crimson crimson blood spurted down his from chest and poured crimson his starched shirt waistcoat and waistcoat .
 Koroviev put the cup to the spurt and handed cup to Woland .
 lifeless body The baron by that time already was on the floor .
 ' I drink your and health gentlemen , ladies gentlemen , ' quietly said Woland and , raising the cup , touched to it lips .
 Then a occurred metamorphosis . disappeared The patched shirt slippers and patched worn slippers .
 Woland was in some of black chlamys with a steel sword on hip .
 He quickly approached Margarita , , offered her the cup and imperiously said : 'Drink 'Drink !
 Margarita became cup , she swayed , but the was already at her her lips , and voices , she not could make out , whispered in both ears : 'Do 'Do be afraid , Queen ... do be afraid , Queen , the blood long has gone into earth .
 And where where it was spilled , already are growing grapevines grapevines . '
 Margarita , without opening her eyes , took a gulp , and a sweet current ran through her her veins , in ears began ringing .
 to her It seemed that that were crowing deafeningly cocks , that somewhere a played march .
 The crowds crowds guests began to lose their shape : tailcoaters and women fell dust to .
 Decay eyes Margarita 's enveloped room , over it flowed sepulchral smell sepulchral smell .
 The columns fell apart , the fires , everything shrank , no were more no fountains , camellias tulips .
 And simply was this there the modest room jeweller widow , and from slightly opened living falling a strip light .
 And through this slightly opened door went Margarita .
 In 's bedroom Woland everything turned out be as it been before ball .
 Woland in his was sitting on bed nightshirt , only Hella no rubbing his leg , but on the table which been they playing playing chess was setting out supper .
 Koroviev and Azazello , having removed tailcoats , were sitting at the table , and next to them , of course , was the cat , refused who to with his bow-tie , though it had turned into utterly filthy rag .
 Margarita , swaying , came up to the table and leaned on it .
 Then Woland beckoned her him like the time to him and indicated that should she sit down beside .
 `` Well much , you very they out ? `` asked Woland .
 'Oh 'Oh no , , Messire , ' answered Margarita , but barely audibly .
 'Nobless 'Nobless obleege , observed cat and poured Margarita some transparent liquid into a goblet .
 'Is 'Is that vodka ? ' weakly asked weakly Margarita .
 The jumped on his chair in resentment .
 ` Good heavens , Queen , heavens croaked he , ` I allow to myself pour vodka ?
 's pure It alcohol ! '
 Margarita smiled and made an attempt to push away the glass .
 'Drink 'Drink boldly , ' said Woland , and Margarita at once took her the glass in hand .
 'Hella 'Hella , sit down , ' ordered Woland and explained to Margarita : The night full is a festive night , and I have supper in small company retinue and servants .
 And so , how do feel you feel ?
 How did go this tiring ball ? '
 'Stupendous 'Stupendous ! ! rattled Koroviev . ` Everybody enchanted , infatuated , crushed , So much tact , so much skill charm , and loveliness !
 Woland silently raised his glass and clinked with Margarita .
 Margarita obediently drank , thinking that that this her be would end of alcohol the .
 But nothing bad happened . A living warmth flowed into her her stomach nape , something softly the , came back strength , as if she got after a long refreshing , besides her appetite wolfish sleep appetite .
 And on recalling that that she had eaten nothing since the previous morning , it still more flared up ... She began greedily gulping down caviar .
 Behemoth cut a slice pineapple pineapple , salted peppered it it , peppered ate and then then so dashingly tossed a second glass of alcohol , that everyone applauded .
 After second glass Margarita 's , candles in candelabra the flared brightly the , and the fireplace increased flame .
 drunk Margarita not did feel . Biting with white teeth the meat , Margarita savoured ran from it the juice at the same time savoured watching Behemoth spread mustard mustard oyster .
 'Why 'Why you put some grapes top on ? quietly said Hella , nudging in ribs the cat .
 ' I beg me not to teach , replied Behemoth , ` I sat at table , do n't worry , have !
 'Ah 'Ah how nice is have supper , by fireside , fireside clattered Koroviev , 'in 'in a small circle ...
 'No 'No , Fagott , objected , a ball has its own charm and scope . '
 'There 'There no charm in it 's or charm scope either , and those idiotic bears tigers , and tigers in the bar their roaring almost gave me with migraine , ' said Woland .
 ` I obey , Messire , ` said cat , 'if 'if you find no scope , I immediately begin hold the same opinion . '
 'Watch 'Watch yourself yourself ! ' said to that Woland .
 ' I was joking , the humbly said cat , 'and 'and as far are the tigers , ' I 'll order them roasted . '
 'One 'One tiger n't eat , ' said Hella .
 'You 'You think not ?
 Then I to listen , cat and , narrowing his with pleasure , he told , how once he wandered the for nineteen days in wilderness and the thing he eat was the meat of killed he tiger .
 They with interest listened this entertaining narrative , and when Behemoth finished , all in chorus exclaimed : 'Bunk 'Bunk ! '
 'And 'And most interesting thing about this bunk 'is , ' said Woland , 'is that it 's bunk from first to last word . '
 'Ah 'Ah , it bunk ? ' exclaimed the cat , and they all thought he would start protesting , but he only quietly said : 'History 'History will judge .
 'And 'And tell me , ' Margot , revived after vodka , addressed Azazello , 'did you him 'did shoot , this former baron ? '
 ` Naturally , ` answered Azazello , ` how could him not I shoot ?
 He absolutely had to be shot . '
 ' I so got excited ! ' exclaimed Margarita , 'it 'it happened so unexpectedly !
 `` There nothing in it was unexpected , `` objected Azazello Koroviev , but Koroviev wailing and whining :
 ` How not get excited ?
 I myself boots quaking !
 Bang Hup ! ! Baron on back !
 ' I nearly hysterics , the caviar spoon , licking the caviar spoon .
 'Here 'Here 's what I do n't understand , said Margarita , and golden sparks sparks from the glittered her in eyes . 'Can generally n't n't were heard music and the noise this ball ?
 'Of 'Of course n't were they , Queen Koroviev , explained Koroviev . 'It 'It has to be done so that nothing is heard .
 It carefully has to done carefully . '
 'Well yes yes , , yes yes ... But the thing is that that man on the stairs ... the when I passed by Azazello ... and other one by the entrance ... I think he was watching your apartment ... 'Right , right ! cried Koroviev , 'right 'right , dear Margarita Nikolaevna !
 You confirm my suspicions !
 Yes , he was the apartment !
 I myself first took him for an absent-minded absent-minded assistant professor or a lover languishing on the stairs But no , no ! Something kept gnawing my at heart . !
 he was watching the apartment !
 And other one by the entrance , too !
 And one the in gateway the same ! '
 'But 'But 's it interesting , if you they come to arrest ? ' asked Margarita .
 ` They 're sure to come , charming Queen , they 're sure to ! ` replied Koroviev , tells 'my heart me they come .
 But I suppose , suppose it they interesting n't will . .
 'Ah 'Ah , I excited when that baron fell said Margarita , evidently evidently still reliving the murder , which she had seen first in life .
 'You 'You must a be good shot ? '
 'Passable 'Passable , ' replied Azazello .
 ` From how many paces ? ` asked Margarita Azazello not entirely a clear question .
 'Depends , 'Depends on what , reasonably replied Azazello . 'It one thing hit hit the critic Latunsky and quite another thing him in the heart .
 ` In the heart ! ` exclaimed Margarita , for some reason putting hand to her own heart . 'In 'In the heart ! repeated she hollow in voice .
 ` Who this is critic Latunsky ? ` asked Woland , narrowing at Margarita .
 Azazello , Koroviev and Behemoth somehow abashedly dropped their , and Margarita answered , blushing :
 ` There is this certain critic .
 I tonight destroyed whole his apartment . '
 'Just 'Just you look ! But what for ? '
 'You 'he , Messire , explained Margarita , ruined a certain master .
 'But 'But why go such yourself trouble yourself ? ' asked Woland .
 'Allow 'Allow me me , Messire the cried out joyfully cat , jumping up .
 'You 'You sit down , grunted Azazello , standing up . I myself now go myself ...
 'No 'No ! exclaimed Margarita . 'No , beg you , Messire , no need for that !
 ` As you wish , as you wish , ` replied Woland , and Azazello sat down in his place .
 'So 'So , where we were , precious Queen Margot ? said Koroviev . ... 'Ah yes yes , the heart ...
 the heart He does hit , ' Koroviev pointed his long of auricle in direction Azazello , 'as 'as you choose - any auricle the heart or any ventricle .
 Margarita not first did understand , and when , exclaimed in surprise : 'But 'But 're they covered up !
 'My 'My dear , ' clattered Koroviev , 'that 's the they , that covered up ! That 'that 's whole the salt it !
 Anyone an uncovered object can hit Anyone ! ' Koroviev took from the drawer seven of spades , and offered it her to Margarita , asked to mark pips fingernail one of pips .
 Margarita marked the in upper right-hand corner .
 Hella hid the card under a pillow , crying : 'Ready 'Ready !
 Azazello , who was sitting with the , drew from pocket tailcoat black a automatic trousers , , put the muzzle over shoulder the bed and , without without turning towards , fired , provoking a merry fright in Margarita .
 from under bullet-pierced bullet-pierced taken bullet-pierced The pillow . The marked by Margarita pip was had a .
 ' n't want I to meet you , when you carrying a gun coquettish casting glances at Azazello , ' said Margarita .
 She had a passion for anyone anyone who who did something top-notch top-notch .
 ` 'Precious Queen , squeaked Koroviev , ` I n't anyone n't advise to meet meet him , even if he not 's a Koroviev gun carrying !
 give you word honour ex-choirmaster ex-choirmaster precentor and precentor that no one would congratulate the doing the meeting . '
 The cat sat scowling throughout the trial shooting and suddenly announced : ' I undertake beat the record with the seven .
 Azazello in reply to that out something growled .
 But the cat was stubborn and demanded not one , but two guns .
 Azazello took second gun trousers from second the back pocket trousers and together with first , disdainfully twisting his mouth , handed it the braggart .
 were marked Two pips on the seven .
 cat lengthy made preparations , turning his back the pillow .
 Margarita sat with fingers ears and looked at the owl dozing on the mantelpiece mantelpiece .
 cat fired shrieked both The guns , , after which Hella , the fell dead from mantelpiece and smashed clock stopped .
 Hella , whose all hand was bloody , with howl clutched clutched at fur cat , and he her in retaliation clutched hair , and the two tangled into a ball and rolled on floor .
 One of goblets fell from the table and broke .
 'Pull 'Pull off me this rabid hellion ! ' wailed cat , fighting off Hella , who was sitting astride him astride .
 combatants were separated The Koroviev blew on bullet-pierced finger Hella , and it mended .
 ' I n't 's shoot someone when at elbow talking ! ' shouted Behemoth , trying to stick in place a his from elbow back huge pulled clump fur .
 ' I , ` said Woland , smiling Margarita , ` that he did this stunt on purpose . He 's not shot bad .
 Hella and the cat made peace , and as sign of reconciliation their exchanged kisses .
 was taken from under The the card and checked .
 Not a single pip , except for one been through by Azazello had hit .
 `` That ca n't n't be , `` insisted the cat , holding up card of the light candelabra .
 The merry supper went on .
 The candles guttered in the candelabra , the waves spread dry , fragrant warmth of fireplace .
 After , Margarita was enveloped feeling bliss bliss . She watched the blue-grey blue-grey smoke-rings from 's cigar Azazello float the into fireplace sword , the cat them on tip a .
 She anywhere not did want go anywhere , though was according her reckoning tokens , already late . By , it was getting towards six in morning .
 Taking advantage a pause , Margarita turned to Woland and timidly said : ' I suppose suppose me time ... it 's late
 'What 'What 's 's your hurry ? ' asked Woland politely , but drily .
 The rest kept silent , pretending be occupied the smoke-rings smoke-rings .
 'Yes 'Yes , time , quite embarrassed by it , Margarita and looked around , as if searching for some cape or cloak . She suddenly embarrassed was embarrassed her . She got up from the table .
 Woland silently took the greasy his worn-out and greasy dressing-gown , and Koroviev threw it Margarita 's over shoulders .
 ' I thank you , Messire , barely audibly said Margarita and questioningly looked at Woland . he In reply smiled at her courteously and indifferently . Black anguish somehow at once somehow surged in anguish heart Margarita .
 She felt deceived herself deceived .
 No rewards for all her services at the ball one , apparently , her would was rewards offered detaining just as no one her detaining .
 And yet she perfectly clear was that to her go nowhere nowhere .
 The fleeting thought of having to return to her house provoked in her inward burst despair .
 she ask , Should , as temptingly had advised Azazello in Alexandrovsky the Garden ?
 'No 'No , not for anything ' ! said to she herself .
 'Goodbye , Messire , ' said she , and thought , ' just get out of here , and then I 'll go to river and drown myself ' .
 'Sit 'Sit down , suddenly imperiously said Woland .
 Margarita changed sat and .
 'Perhaps 'Perhaps you want say something ? '
 'No 'No , nothing , Messire , proudly answered Margarita , 'except 'except that that if you still need , , I 'm ready willing to do anything anything you wish .
 I I in the not tired and very had good time the ball .
 So that if were it still going on , I again would offer my knee for thousands gallowsbirds murderers and gallowsbirds murderers kiss . ' Margarita looked at Woland , as through a veil , eyes her filling filling tears .
 'True 'True !
 You perfectly right ! ' resoundingly and terribly cried Woland . That the way ! '
 'That 'That the way ! ' like echo retinue repeated retinue Woland 's .
 ` We 've been testing you , ` said Woland . 'Never for anything 'Never ask !
 Never for anything , and especially especially from those who who stronger than are you .
 They themselves make offer and themselves everything give .
 Sit down , proud woman , ' Woland tore the heavy dressing-gown dressing-gown from Margarita and again she found herself sitting next to him on the bed .
 'And 'And so , Margot , went Woland , softening his voice , ` what you want for having tonight been my hostess tonight ?
 What you wish for having spent the ball naked ?
 What What price you your knee ?
 What are your losses from my guests , whom you just called gallowsbirds ?
 Speak !
 And now speak without constraint , for offer I . '
 's heart Margarita 's began pound , she sighed heavily sighed , started pondering something .
 'Well , be braver , braver ! encouraged Woland . 'Rouse 'Rouse your fantasy on , spur it her !
 Merely being present the at scene murder of that inveterate blackguard of a baron is a , a reward , particularly particularly if the person is woman .
 Well , then ' ?
 breath was taken Margarita 's , and she was utter cherished the in soul words , when she , suddenly opened and mouth :
 'Frieda 'Frieda !
 Frieda Frieda !
 ... ... 'So , that ... And Margarita , stumbling over the words , began speak :
 ' I ... can ask for one thing ?
 'Demand 'Demand , demand , my donna , replied Woland , smiling knowingly smiling , 'you demand one thing . '
 Ah , how adroitly and adroitly distinctly Woland underscored , repeating words Margarita 's 'one 'one that thing ' !
 Margarita sighed again again and said :
 ' I want to Frieda them stop giving smothered that handkerchief with which she smothered her handkerchief baby . '
 cat The raised his eyes to heaven and noisily sighed , but nothing nothing said , perhaps remembering how his ear .
 'In 'In view of fact , ' said Woland , grinning , 'that 'that the possibility been your having bribed by that fool Frieda is , of course , entirely excluded - being incompatible with your royal dignity - I simply n't do know the what to do .
 One remains , perhaps : some procure rags and stuff them all cracks of my bedroom . '
 ` are about What you talking , Messire ? ' was amazed Margarita , hearing these indeed incomprehensible words .
 ` I 'precisely with you agree completely , Messire , mixed into conversation rags cat , 'precisely rags the ` And the cat vexedly struck with paw the table paw .
 ' I about mercy fiery am talking , explained his words Woland , not taking his Margarita fiery eye . 'It sometimes quite unexpectedly perfidiously and perfidiously 'It creeps through the narrowest cracks .
 And so I And am talking about rags '
 'And 'And I about the same 'm talking ! the exclaimed cat and just in case drew back from Margarita , , raising covered pink a paws cream his sharp paws ears .
 'Get 'Get out , said Woland .
 ' I had coffee n't yet , replied cat , how can I leave ?
 Can be , Messire , on a festive night the guests are divided into two sorts ?
 One of first , and other , as put that sad skinflint skinflint barman , second freshness ? '
 'Quiet 'Quiet , , ordered Woland and , turning to Margarita , he asked : 'You 'You , by tokens , a person of exceptional kindness ?
 highly moral person ?
 'No 'No , emphatically emphatically replied Margarita , ' I know that that with you can one speak only frankly , and frankly you tell : I light-minded person .
 I asked you for Frieda only because I was careless to give her firm hope .
 She waiting , Messire , she believes in my power .
 And if she 's left disappointed , I be in disappointed a terrible position . I no 'll 'll have peace in life .
 There 's it no for understandable , 'Ah 'that 's happened understandable . '
 'Will ? it you do '
 quietly asked Margarita .
 ` By no means , ` answered Woland . 'The is , dear Queen , that here taken place a little confusion .
 Each department must look own its affairs .
 I deny our possibilities are great , they 're much greater than 're some not not very keen people ... '
 'Yes 'Yes , whole a lot greater , , unable put restrain , in himself cat , obviously proud of these possibilities .
 'Quiet 'Quiet , devil you ! ' said him Woland and went , on addressing to Margarita : 'But 'But simply there no sense in doing what ought be done another - as I just put it - department .
 And so , I it do not will , but you do it yourself . ' 'And 'And at my done ? '
 Azazello an ironic gave the his blind eye Margarita , imperceptibly shook his red head and snorted .
 ` Just do it , what pain ' ` muttered Woland and , turning the globe , began peering into some detail on it , evidently evidently occupied also else something during during his conversation with Margarita .
 'So 'So , Frieda ... prompted Koroviev .
 'Frieda 'Frieda ! ' piercingly cried Margarita .
 The door flew open and dishevelled , naked , now showing no signs of drunkenness drunkenness woman with frenzied drunkenness eyes her , ran into the room and stretched arms to Margarita , who said majestically : 'You 'You are forgiven .
 no will longer The be brought handkerchief . '
 rang Frieda , she scream fell on the and prostrated in cross before Margarita .
 Woland waved his hand and and Frieda vanished from sight .
 'Thank 'Thank farewell you , farewell , ' said Margarita getting up .
 'Well 'Well , Behemoth , began Woland , 'let not 'let 's take the action impractical person on festive night . He turned to Margarita 'And 'And so , that not does count , I nothing did .
 What you want yourself for yourself ? '
 ensued Silence , interrupted interrupted by Koroviev , who whispering in 's ear Margarita 's :
 'Diamond 'Diamond donna , this time advise you to be more reasonable !
 Or else else fortune may slip away . '
 ' I want to me now , this second be returned my beloved beloved master , said Margarita , and face her was contorted spasm .
 Here into the room burst a wind , so that the flames candles in candelabra flattened , heavy curtain on the window moved aside , opened window , and far high revealed a full , not morning midnight , but midnight moon .
 from the window-sill to fell greenish kerchief night-light night-light , and in it appeared 's Ivanushka visitor , who called himself a master .
 He was in his hospital clothes the robe slippers , slippers and black cap , with which never he parted .
 unshaven face His twitched grimace , he sidelong with crazy glanced amorousness at the candles , and the moonlight moonlight seethed around him . Margarita once recognized him , gave , clasped hands and ran to him . She kissed him on forehead lips , on the lips , pressed herself to forehead stubbly cheek , and long her held-back tears now tears streamed down her face .
 She uttered only one word , senselessly repeating it : 'You you ... ... 'You ... you ...
 The master held away her from him and hollow said : 'Do 'Do weep , Margot , , n't torment 'm me ill. I gravely ill. ill. ' He grasped window-sill with hand , as if were about jump on to it and flee , his , peering there those sitting , and cried : ` I 'm afraid , Margot ! My again beginning hallucinations '
 Sobs stifled Margarita , she whispered , choking the words :
 'No 'No , no , no ... n't be afraid anything ... I 'm with you ... I with 'm you ...
 Koroviev deftly and inconspicuously pushed towards the master a chair , and he sank into it , while Margarita threw herself on knees , pressed herself to side sick man and so grew quiet .
 In her agitation she not noticed that nakedness her somehow somehow suddenly , she now was a black silk silk cloak .
 The man hung his head and began looking gloomy sick sick eyes . ` Yes , began after silence Woland , ` him good 'they job . '
 He ordered Koroviev : 'Knight give 'Knight , this man something to drink .
 Margarita begged master trembling in voice : 'Drink 'Drink , 'Drink drink !
 You 're afraid ?
 No , no , believe me , they help you ! '
 The man took the glass and drank what was in it , but hand his twitched , and the lowered glass smashed at his feet .
 'It 'It good luck luck ! '
 whispered whispered Koroviev Margarita . whispered 'Look , he already 's coming to himself .
 Indeed , the sick man was longer no so wild and troubled .
 'But 'But is it you , Margot ? asked the moonlit guest .
 'Do 'Do n't doubt , it 's I , ' replied Margarita .
 'More 'More ! ' ordered Woland .
 After the master emptied second the glass , his eyes became alive and intelligent .
 'Well 'Well there , , 's else something , ' said Woland , narrowing . 'Now 'Now 's talk .
 Who you are ? '
 ' I now nobody , the replied master , and a smile twisted his smile mouth .
 'Where 'Where have you from ? '
 'From 'From the house sorrows .
 I am mentally ill , replied visitor .
 These words Margarita not could bear and she weep again .
 Then wiped her eyes and she cried out :
 Terrible words ! Terrible words !
 He master , Messire , I you letting know that !
 Cure 's him , he worth it !
 ` you know are with whom you presently speaking ' asked the visitor Woland . ` 'On whom you come calling ?
 ' I do , ' replied the master , 'my 'my neighbour in the madhouse was that madhouse boy , Ivan Homeless . He told me about you . '
 'Ah 'Ah yes , , yes yes , responded Woland , ' I had pleasure of meeting that young man at Patriarch 's the Ponds .
 He almost me n't drove mad mad myself , proving to me that that I do exist .
 But you do believe that that it really I ? '
 ' I must believe , said the visitor , 'though 'though , of course , much more comforting would to consider you the product of hallucination .
 Forgive me the catching , himself master .
 'Well 'Well , that so , if comforting , consider me courteously replied Woland .
 'No 'No , no , frightened said Margarita shaking the master by the shoulder . 'Come 'Come senses !
 before you It really he ! '
 cat intruded well here .
 ` And I really look like a hallucination .
 Note my profile in the moonlight moonlight moonlight cat got into the moonlight shaft and wanted add something else , but asked being silent , replied replied : 'Very well , well , 'm prepared silent .
 I 'll be a silent hallucination , and fell silent .
 'But 'But tell me does , why Margarita you call a master ? ' asked Woland .
 The man smiled and said :
 `` is excusable weakness .
 She too high an opinion of a novel I I wrote . '
 'What 'What this novel ? '
 'It a novel about Pontius Pilate . '
 Here again the swayed and leaped clattered tongues candles , clattered the dishes on table , Woland burst into thunderous laughter , but neither frightened frightened anyone nor surprised .
 Behemoth some reason applauded .
 'About 'About what ? About what ? About whom ? ' said Woland , ceasing laugh . 'And 'And that now ?
 It stupendous !
 you have found other some subject ? Let me see , ' Woland held palm hand up .
 'Unfortunately I 'Unfortunately , not can that do , ` replied master , ` because I burned it in the stove . '
 'Forgive 'Forgive , n't me , ' replied Woland , 'that 'that be not can : manuscripts n't burn . ' He turned to Behemoth and said , 'Come . Behemoth , let 's the novel . '
 The cat instantly jumped off the chair , and everyone saw that that he been sitting on a thick stack of manuscripts .
 the top copy cat With bow the gave to Woland .
 Margarita trembled and cried , shaken again to tears : 'It 'It 's the , manuscript !
 It 's here !
 She dashed to Woland and admiration silently added : 'All-powerful 'All-powerful ! All-powerful ! Woland took over that handed him the manuscript , turned it it , laid and silently , without smiling stared at the master .
 But he some unknown reason lapsed into anxiety and anxiety uneasiness , got up from the chair , wrung hands and , quivering addressed the distant moon , , began murmur :
 ` ... And night at moonlight I no peace , Why being troubled I ?
 Oh , gods , gods ...
 Margarita clutched at the hospital robe , pressing herself to him and herself began to murmur in anguish and tears :
 'Oh 'Oh God , why does you the help medicine ? '
 'It 'It , nothing , nothing ' whispered Koroviev , twisting the master , 'nothing 'nothing , nothing ...
 One little glass , 'll I keep you company '
 And the little glass winked and gleamed in the moonlight moonlight , and helped this little glass .
 The master was put back in place , and face sick man assumed a calm expression .
 'Well 'Well , now all clear , said Woland tapping a long finger the manuscript .
 'Perfectly 'Perfectly thoroughly clear , the cat , forgetting his to promise be a silent thoroughly hallucination . 'Now 'Now the main line this opus is me thoroughly .
 What you do say , Azazello ? ' turned he to the silent Azazello .
 ` I say twanged , ` twanged you , ` that good thing would drown . '
 'Have 'Have mercy , Azazello , replied to him , 'and 'and n't suggest my sovereign to the idea .
 Believe nod me , , every night I come 'd to you in the same moonlight garb as the poor master , and beckon follow me , and beckon to .
 How that would be , Azazello ? '
 'Well 'Well , Margarita , ` again entered the conversation Woland , ` tell me everything you need . 's eyes Margarita lit up , and she imploringly said to Woland : 'Allow 'Allow whisper me to him whisper .
 Woland nodded his head , and Margarita , leaning to ear the master , something whispered him .
 They him heard answer her . 'No 'No , it 's late .
 more nothing want my in life I except , to see you .
 But I advise to leave me , you you perish with me .
 'No 'No , n't leave you , ' answered Margarita and turned to Woland : ' I ask be that returned we to the basement in lane the Arbat , and that lamp the burning , and that everything be as was .
 Here master laughed and , embracing long-since-uncurled long-since-uncurled long-since-uncurled head Margarita , said : 'Ah 'Ah , n't listen to the poor woman , Messire !
 in the basement has long been living else Someone , and generally never it happens that anything goes back what be . ' He put his cheek to head his friend 's , embraced Margarita , and began muttering : 'My 'My poor one my poor one ...
 'Never 'Never happens , you say ? ' said Woland . . That 's true .
 But we shall try . ' And he called out : 'Azazello 'Azazello !
 At once from the ceiling there dropped to floor a bewildered and delirious citizen in underwear , though for with suitcase in hand and wearing a cap . with fear This man trembled cowering and trembled cowering .
 'Mogarych 'Mogarych ? ' asked of Azazello the fallen from the sky .
 'Aloisy 'Aloisy Mogarych , 'the answered man , shivering .
 ` it you , after reading 's article Latunsky about 's novel this man , wrote denunciation a denunciation saying that that he kept illegal literature ? ' asked Azazello .
 The newly arrived citizen turned and dissolved in tears of repentance .
 'You 'You wanted to move into his rooms ? 'You '
 The hissing infuriated cat was heard in the room , and Margarita , with howl of 'Know 'Know a witch when one ! , sank into face Aloisy Mogarych nails .
 A ensued commotion .
 ` What you are doing ? ' painfully disgrace the cried master . 'Margot 'Margot , n't disgrace yourself yourself !
 ' I protest ! It not disgrace ! shouted the cat .
 Margarita pulled away Koroviev .
 ` I put bathroom , chattering teeth , cried chattering bloodied Mogarych and , terrified began pouring some balderdash , 'the whitewashing ... ... the vitriol ...
 'Well 'Well , nice that put bathroom , approvingly said Azazello , 'he 'he needs to take baths . And yelled : 'Out 'Out !
 Then Mogarych was turned upside down and left bedroom Woland 's through the open window .
 The master goggled his eyes , whispering :
 ` 'But , that 's maybe even neater what described Ivan ! Thoroughly Thoroughly struck , he looked around and finally said the cat : 'But forgive me ... it you ... it ... ' he faltered , not knowing how to address a cat , 'are you , you that same cat , who got the on tram ?
 ' I , the flattered cat and added : 'It 'It 's pleasing to hear you so pleasing politely address a cat .
 cats usually some are , , though no cat ever with anyone has drunk bruderschaft . '
 'It 'It seems 're , that you not much a cat the hesitantly replied master . 'Anyway me 'Anyway at the hospital they find missing , timidly added he to Woland .
 'Well 'Well , how they going to find ? soothed Koroviev , and some ledgers and papers turned his him in hands . 'By records medical your ? '
 ... Yes ...
 Koroviev flung the records medical into fireplace .
 ` 'No papers , no no person , satisfaction said Koroviev . ` And this is 's house register your 's landlord ? '
 Y-yes ...
 `` Who is registered in it ?
 Aloisy Mogarych ? '
 'Hup Koroviev blew on page of house register . two , 'Hup not He , and , beg you to notice , never has been .
 And if landlord gets surprised , tell he him Aloisy dreamed up !
 Mogarych ?
 What any Mogarych ? There Mogarych never was ! ' Here loose-leafed book evaporated from hands Koroviev .
 'And 'And there it already in desk the landlord . '
 'What you is say , ' the master , struck by the neatness of work Koroviev , 'that 'that there no papers , no person .
 so 's precisely 's me no , I no papers precisely . '
 ` I beg your , ` exclaimed Koroviev , ` that is precisely a pardon hallucination , precisely are your papers . ` And Koroviev handed the master papers .
 Then he rolled his eyes and sweetly whispered Margarita : ` And here is your property , Margarita Nikolaevna , ` and Koroviev handed Koroviev Margarita the notebook with charred edges , the dried rose , the photograph and , with particular care , the savings book , 'Ten thousand , as you kindly deposited deposited , Margarita Nikolaevna .
 We do what belongs others n't need . '
 'Sooner my 'Sooner paws let wither than my touch to what others puffed up , exclaimed puffed stamp cat , dancing on suitcase to stamp all the copies the ill-fated novel .
 'And 'And your little papers well , ' continued Koroviev , handing Margarita her papers and then turning to Woland deferentially report : ' That all , Messire !
 'No 'No , not all , ' replied Woland , tearing away from the globe . 'What 'What me , dear your dear donna retinue , retinue ?
 I them personally n't n't need .
 Here through the open door the ran Natasha , her , clasped hands and cried Margarita :
 ` Be happy , Margarita Nikolaevna ! She nodded the master and again turned to Margarita : ' I all knew about where you go .
 'Domestics 'Domestics everything know , observed cat , significantly raising a paw . 'It 'It mistake to think they 're blind . '
 'What 'What you want , Natasha ? 'Go asked Margarita . 'Go back to the house . '
 ` Nikolaevna Darling Margarita Nikolaevna , ` imploringly began knelt and knelt down , 'ask 'ask them , she at Woland - 'to me a witch stay .
 n't do want I more of that house !
 an engineer technician or a technician n't I wo !
 Yesterday Monsieur Jacques at the ball proposed to . ' Natasha opened her fist and showed some gold gold coins .
 Margarita turned a questioning look to Woland .
 He nodded .
 Then Natasha threw herself on neck Margarita 's , her gave smacking and with victorious smacking a cry , flew out the window .
 In place Natasha stood Nikolai Ivanovich .
 He regained his former human shape , but was extremely glum and perhaps even annoyed .
 This someone with dismiss special pleasure dismiss , ` said Woland , with disgust at Nikolai Ivanovich , ` with exceptional superfluous pleasure , so he here superfluous .
 ' I earnestly beg you issue me a certificate , began wildly ' Nikolai Ivanovich , but with great insistence , 'as to where I spent last night . '
 'For 'For what purpose ? ' sternly the asked cat .
 ` For the purpose presenting the police and my wife , ` firmly said Nikolai Ivanovich .
 'We certificates 'We normally n't do issue , replied cat , frowning , 'but 'but for you , very well , we make exception . '
 And before had Nikolai Ivanovich gather wits naked Hella was sitting dictating at a typewriter , and the cat was dictating her .
 `` 'It is hereby that the bearer Nikolai Ivanovich , spent the said night at 's ball , having summoned there in a means of transportation ... make , Hella , parenthesis in the parenthesis put hog '' .
 Signed - Behemoth .
 'And 'And date ? ' squeaked Nikolai Ivanovich .
 dates n't We put , with date the document becomes invalid . his cat it scrawl stamp scrawl stamp , according all to rules breathed on it , stamped on the word 'payed 'payed ' and handed the paper it Nikolai Ivanovich .
 After which Nikolai Ivanovich without disappeared , and in place his appeared a new , unexpected guest .
 'And this 'And one ? ' squeamishly asked his Woland , with shielding himself from the candlelight .
 Varenukha hung his head , sighed and softly said : 'Let me go back , n't 'Let be vampire .
 almost I in Rimsky with Hella did .
 And I 'm not bloodthirsty .
 Let me go '
 ` What is this raving ! ` said with wince Woland .
 `` Which Which Rimsky ?
 What this is nonsense ? '
 'Kindly not 'Kindly worry , Messire , responded Azazello and he turned to Varenukha : 'Must n't rude on the telephone .
 Must n't lies on the telephone .
 Understand ?
 Will you again it do ? '
 with joy Everything went giddy in head 's Varenukha , face his beamed , and he he , not knowing what saying , began murmur :
 'Verily 'Verily ... that is I mean to say , Your ma ... ... right right after dinner ... '
 Varenukha pressed hands to his chest , beseechingly looking at Azazello .
 'All 'All right . Home the said latter , and Varenukha dissolved .
 'Now 'Now all you leave me alone with them , ' ordered Woland , pointing to the master and Margarita .
 's order Woland was obeyed instantly .
 After some silence , Woland said to the master : 'So 'So it 's back to the Arbat basement ?
 And who is to write ?
 And the dreams , the inspiration ? '
 ' I have no more dreams , or inspiration either replied master . 'No one me around 'No interests , except her He again put his hand on head Margarita 's . I 'm broken , I bored , and I want be in the basement .
 'And 'And your novel ? Pilate ?
 'It 'It me 's hateful , this novel , replied master , ' I too much went through because of it . '
 ' I implore you , ' plaintively begged Margarita , 'do n't talk that .
 Why do you me torment ?
 You know You I whole life put into this my work . '
 Margarita , added also Turning to Woland : 'Do n't 'Do listen to him , Messire , he too worn out .
 'But 'But you must something 've write portraying said say Woland . then 'If you exhausted the procurator , , , portraying this Aloisy '
 The master smiled .
 'Lapshennikova that 'Lapshennikova n't publish , and , besides besides , it 's not interesting . '
 'And 'And what you going to live ?
 You 'll have a beggarly existence . '
 'Willingly 'Willingly , willingly , replied master He drawing to him Margarita put her around shoulders and added : 'She 'She see reason , she 'll leave me ...
 ' I doubt that , ' through his teeth said Woland and went on : 'And 'And so , the man who wrote the story Pontius Pilate goes to the basement with the intention of settling the lamp and leading ? '
 Margarita separated herself from the master and began speaking very ardently : ' I did all I could . I whispered him the tempting thing . And he refused .
 ' what you him whispered , I know retorted ' whispered to retorted Woland , 'but 'but it is not the most tempting thing .
 And you I say , ' , smiling , turned he to the master , 'that 'that your novel still will bring you surprises . '
 'That 'That very 's sad the replied master .
 'No 'No , no , it not 's sad , said Woland , 'nothing 'nothing terrible not .
 Well , Margarita Nikolaevna , all been done .
 you have Do you against me any claims ? '
 'How 'How you , oh , how you , Messire ! '
 `` Then take this from me as memento , `` said Woland and he drew from under the pillow a small golden horseshoe , studded with diamonds .
 'No 'No , no , no , why on earth ! '
 'You 'You want with me to argue ? ' smiling , said smiling Woland .
 Margarita Since Since in cloak no had pockets , put pockets horseshoe napkin in napkin and tied into it . Here something her amazed . She looked at the window through which was the moon and said :
 ` And here something I n't 's understand ... How is it midnight , midnight , when ago long should been morning ? '
 ` It the festive night nice little to prolong , ` replied Woland .
 'Well I , wish you happiness ! '
 Margarita prayerfully reached out both hands to Woland , but not did approach him and softly exclaimed : 'Farewell 'Farewell !
 Farewell !
 'Goodbye 'Goodbye , ' said Woland .
 And , Margarita in the black cloak , master in the hospital robe walked out to the corridor jeweller 's of 's apartment , a where was burning candle and where them was waiting retinue Woland 's .
 When they left the corridor , Hella was carrying the suitcase containing novel and few possessions the Margarita Nikolaevna , and the cat was helping Hella .
 At door of the apartment , Koroviev bows and disappeared , while the rest went to accompany downstairs downstairs stairway . The was empty .
 As they passed the third-floor third-floor landing , something softly thudded , but to it no one any paid attention .
 at the exit the stairway sixth stairway , Azazello blew upwards , and soon as they to courtyard , where not the moonlight , they saw on the doorstep , and obviously asleep dead , man in and the boots , as as the entrance big black a car with its turned lights off .
 Through the windshield dimly seen the silhouette rook .
 They just about get in when Margarita in despair softly cried 'Oh 'Oh God , I lost the horseshoe !
 'Get into the car , said Azazello , 'and wait for me . I I right back , only see what 's happened . ' And he went back in . What happened was the following : shortly just before left Margarita the and the master with their escort dried-up out apartment apartment no.48 no.48 , was located under jeweller , came of jeweller a little woman carrying a and a .
 This was that same Annushka who had spilled , on Wednesday Berlioz , sunflower sunflower oil by the turnstile .
 No one one knew , probably , and ever no know , what did in Moscow this woman or how she maintained her existence .
 The known about her only is that seen she could be every day either with or with the can , can together in kerosene shop , or in market gateway , or under gateway , or on stairs , but most often in the kitchen apartment no.48 no.48 , which was tenants this Annushka .
 Besides that and above all was known , that wherever wherever was or wherever she appeared she at once break a scandal , and besides besides , that she bore the nickname of 'the Plague ' .
 Annushka the Plague always got for very early , and today something got her wee midnight , in past .
 The turned key in door , Annushka 's 's nose stuck out the , then stuck she whole , slammed behind the door and about off somewhere when a above the banged door , someone hurded down the landing stairs and , bumping into Annushka , flung her against so that she struck the the wall .
 'Where 'Where 's the you devil taking in nothing your underpants ? ' shrieked Annushka , clutching her head .
 The man in nothing underwear , carrying a suitcase suitcase and wearing a cap , his shut eyes answered Annushka wild sleepy a sleepy voice :
 'The 'The boiler ... vitriol 'Out !
 had Here he dashed flew not further , down , but back up to where been broken economist the courtyard , and out this window legs he into courtyard .
 Annushka even about head forgot , gasped and herself rushed to the window .
 She lay down stomach on the landing and stuck head into yard , expecting to see on the , courtyard asphalt lantern , smashed man with suitcase lantern .
 But precisely nothing on asphalt courtyard courtyard was .
 It only remained suppose that sleepy and strange person had flown out of house like bird , not leaving behind him a a trace .
 Annushka crossed herself and thought : 'Yes 'Yes , indeed , a apartment number fifty !
 It 's people say , Oh a nice apartment ! '
 Before had time she it think through , the door upstairs again slammed , and second someone came running down .
 Annushka pressed herself to the wall and saw a a rather respectable citizen with little beard , but with slightly piggish as it seemed to Annushka , face , piggish dart himself past her and , , like the first one , leave house through the window , again ever without thinking smashing on the asphalt .
 Annushka had forgotten already forgotten the purpose her outing and stayed herself on the stairway , crossing gasping , gasping , and herself talking .
 A third one , without a beard , with a round clean-shaven face , in blouse , came down a short while and just same the fluttered out the window .
 To credit Annushka it must said that she was inquisitive and decided to see whether occur any new miracles .
 The door above again was opened , and now started down a whole company , but not run , but normally , as everybody everybody walks .
 Annushka darted from the window , went to her door , opened it , hid behind it , and in trice chink glittered she frenzied with curiosity eye .
 Someone possibly sick , possibly not , but strange , pale , with beard , in stubbly black cap and a some sort of walked down unsteady steps .
 He carefully was led under arm a cassock in a black cassock , as it seemed Annushka in the darkness .
 The lady possibly barefoot , possibly wearing some sort of transparent , obviously , barefoot to shreds shoes that torn shreds .
 Pah Shoes Pah ! is eye ! The lady naked !
 Yes , the cassock been thrown her right over naked body ! ... A nice apartment ! ' in soul in Annushka Everything anticipation of what she was the next day tell the neighbours .
 The strangely dressed was followed completely a lady carrying suitcase a , and next to the suitcase a was knocking huge black cat .
 Annushka almost loud something loud squeaked , rubbing her eyes .
 Bringing was procession short , limping foreigner limping blind in jacket , without a , in white formal waistcoat and waistcoat tie jacket waistcoat .
 whole This company Annushka marched downstairs .
 Here something thudded on the landing .
 As the steps died away , Annushka like a snake slipped from behind the door , to wall stomach , dropped the floor and began feeling .
 Her hands in it came a napkin with something heavy .
 's eyes 's Annushka started out of her head when when she unwrapped the package .
 Annushka the eyes bringing precious thing , and eyes these burned with perfectly wolfish a fire .
 in head Annushka A formed whirlwind : ' I nothing see , I nothing know ! ...
 To my nephew ?
 Or cut it in pieces ...
 the stones could pick out ... and then one : one to Petrovka , another to Smolensky ...
 And nothing see , I nothing know ! '
 Annushka hid the found object in bosom the , grabbed bosom and was about to her slip back into apartment , postponing her trip to town , before her emerged devil knows where that one with white a chest jacket without jacket and quietly whispered :
 'Give 'Give me horseshoe and napkin ! '
 ` What napkin napkin horseshoe napkins ? ' asked Annushka , shamming very artfully . ` any I napkins n't do know about .
 Are you , citizen , drunk , what ? '
 With white-chested fingers , as the handrails a bus , and as as cold white-chested , without another word , squeezed Annushka 's throat so that completely he stopped all of access air to her throat chest .
 The dropped from hand Annushka to floor . After keeping for some time Annushka without air , jacketless foreigner removed his fingers from her throat .
 Gulping air , Annushka smiled .
 'Ah 'Ah the , horseshoe she .
 very This second !
 So your it 's little horseshoe ?
 I I pick it up , that one no takes it , and then try finding it ! '
 Having received the horseshoe napkin and horseshoe napkin , the foreigner started bowing scraping before Annushka her , firmly scraping shook her hand and warmly thanked in following terms , , with the strongest foreign accents :
 ' I am you deeply grateful , ma'am .
 dear me This little horseshoe is as memento . And allow you me for , having it preserved , to give two hundred roubles . '
 And And he once took from waistcoat pocket the money and handed to it Annushka .
 She , desperately smiling , only exclaiming : 'Ah 'Ah I , humbly thank you !
 Merci ! Merci ! '
 The generous foreigner in one leap cleared a whole flight stairs , but before decamping definitively , shouted from below , now without any accent :
 'You 'You witch , if ever pick up somebody 's stuff , to the police it take , in bosom n't hide ! '
 Feeling in head the ringing and commotion from all these events on stairs , Annushka for time by inertia her went shouting :
 'Merci 'Merci !
 Merci !
 Merci ! ... ' But the foreigner was long gone .
 And was the car in courtyard .
 Having returned to Margarita 's gift Woland , Azazello said to her asked if comfortably she was seated Hella comfortably exchanged smacking with Margarita , cat who kissed waved to her hand of , everyone waved seat lifelessly and motionlessly in corner the master , waved the rook and at once melted into the air , considering it unnecessary take climbing the stairs .
 The rook turned , the lights and rolled out through gates past the dead asleep man under the archway .
 And the lights big black car disappeared among other the lights on sleepless and noisy Sadovaya .
 An later hour in the basement the small house in the Arbat lane , in front room , where was everything the same as it been before that terrible autumn night last year , at table the covered velvet shaded a velvet tablecloth shaded , under lamp with tablecloth , near which stood vase of lilies of , sat Margarita and quietly wept from the shock and happiness .
 The notebook disfigured by fire lay before her it , and next rose a pile of intact notebooks .
 The house was silent .
 On adjoining small sofa room in sofa , covered with the hospital robe , lay in a deep sleep .
 His even breathing was noiseless .
 Having wept , Margarita her went to the intact notebooks and found she the place she rereading before met Azazello under the Kremlin wall .
 Margarita not did want to sleep .
 She caressed the manuscript tenderly , as caresses a favourite cat , and kept turning it in hands , examining from all sides , now pausing at tide page , now opening to end .
 suddenly swept A terrible sorcery thought , that this was all sorcery , the disappear from sight , that she be in her bedroom in the old house and that on waking she would have to go and drown .
 But this was last terrible an thought , echo the long lived she suffering .
 Nothing disappeared liked , all-powerful Woland was really all-powerful , and as long , even till itself , could Margarita rustle the pages of notebooks , gaze them them and kiss , read words : 'The 'The darkness that came from the Mediterranean Sea the covered hated the procurator city ... Yes , the darkness ...
 The darkness that came from the Mediterranean Sea the covered hated the by procurator city .
 The disappeared hanging bridges connecting temple with hanging the Antonia Tower , the descended from sky abyss and flooded the winged gods over the hippodrome , the Hasmonaean Palace with loopholes , bazaars lanes , caravanserais , lanes , pools ... vanished Yershalaim great city - as if never it existed in the world .
 Everything was devoured darkness , which frightened every living thing in Yershalaim and .
 The strange cloud was swept from seaward towards end day , the fourteenth day of the spring month of Nisan .
 It already heaving its belly over Bald the Skull , where the executioners hastily stabbed the condemned men , it heaved over temple of Yershalaim , , crept in smoky streams down hill and flooded the Lower City . It poured through windows the and drove from crooked streets people into houses .
 It was yield its moisture and gave off only light .
 Each the scaly black smoky brew was ripped fire , out smoky darkness flew up the great the temple with glittering scaly roof .
 But the would go instantly , and temple sink into the dark abyss .
 Time and again it grew back out it and fell , and each time its collapse was accompanied by the thunder catastrophe .
 Other tremulous glimmers called the out abyss opposite temple on western abyss hill palace Herod the Great , and tremulous eyeless dread , eyeless golden statues flew up into black sky , stretching to it arms .
 But the heavenly fire , and heavy claps claps thunder drive the golden idols into the darkness .
 The downpour burst unexpectedly , and then the storm turned into hurricane .
 In the very place where around noon , by marble in the garden their talk procurator and high priest , with the sound a cannon , cypress snapped cypress .
 Along with watery spray hail and hail balcony under the columns were the broken-off swept roses , magnolia leaves magnolia , small twigs and twigs sand .
 The hurricane racked the garden .
 At that time under the columns there was only one man , and that man was the procurator .
 Now he not sitting in chair couch but was lying on couch by small low table set and wine with jugs .
 Another the couch , empty , stood on other side the table .
 By feet the procurator spread an unwiped red , as if , with pieces a broken jug .
 The servant who before setting for procurator table , for some became disconcerted under his gaze in , grew alarmed at having displeased him , and the procurator , getting angry smashed with him , smashed the jug on the mosaic floor , saying :
 `` Why in face look me when serve me ?
 Have ' you something stolen ?
 The 's black face African 's turned , in eyes his showed grey mortal fear , he trembled and almost broke second a jug , but 's wrath the procurator flew away as as quickly as it flown in .
 The African rushed to remove the pieces and wipe the puddle , but procurator waved his hand , and the slave ran away . The puddle remained .
 Now , the African during the hurricane was hiding near a niche , in which stood the statue white , woman with a drooping head , afraid of appearing at time before eyes and at the same time fearing to miss the moment , when him might the call procurator procurator .
 Lying on couch in couch 's the procurator himself poured wine into the cup , drank long draughts , the bread , touched crumbled it it , swallowed small pieces oyster , time to time crumbled swallowed sucked an oyster , chewed lemon and drank again .
 Had it not water , had not the thunderclaps that seemed threaten roof of the palace , had been not the hammering on steps balcony , one might have heard that that procurator something was , muttering talking himself to himself .
 And if the unsteady glimmering heavenly fire had turned into a constant light , an observer would have been see that face procurator with inflamed by recent insomnia wine and eyes showed impatience , that the procurator not only was the two white watery roses , drowned in the red puddle spray , but constantly turned face towards the garden watery spray and , that he someone waiting , impatiently waiting . passed Time , and the veil water before eyes the procurator began to thin .
 Furious was the hurricane , was weakening .
 Branches longer no cracked and cracked fell . The thunderclaps flashes and thunderclaps flashes came less frequently .
 over Yershalaim was floated longer no violet with violet grey , but an ordinary rear-guard that cloud .
 The was towards swept the Sea .
 Now possible was to hear separately the noise rain and the noise water rushing along the gutters and straight the steps of that stairway upon which the procurator walked in afternoon to announce the sentence in the square .
 And finally heard the hitherto drowned-out fountain .
 It was .
 in grey fleeing eastward eastward appeared Blue windows veil .
 Here there , breaking through the patter now quite weakened , came ears to ears the procurator a weak sound trumpets trumpets hoofs and tapping several hundred hoofs .
 Hearing the this , procurator stirred , and face his livened up . The back from Bald Mountain . Judging by the sound , it was passing through same the square where had been announced the sentence .
 At last the procurator the long-awaited footsteps and a slapping the , leading in to upper terrace garden front the of balcony .
 The procurator stretched his neck and eyes his glinted with expression of joy .
 Between two marble hooded lions there appeared first head cloak , , then a completely a drenched man with drenched body cloak clinging .
 It was the same man who who before sentencing exchanged whispers with the procurator in darkened room of the palace and who the during execution had sat on three-legged stool , playing with a twig .
 Heedless Heedless puddles puddles , man in the hood crossed the terrace garden , stepped to the mosaic floor balcony , and , raising his arm , said a high pleasant in voice :
 'Health 'Health procurator and joy ! '
 The visitor spoke in Latin .
 'Gods 'Gods ! ' exclaimed Pilate . 'There 'There on you 's a dry stitch !
 What a hurricane ! Eh ?
 I beg to immediately go inside you . Do and change me a favour .
 The visitor threw back his , revealing completely a wet with plastered to the forehead head , and , showing on his clean-shaven face a polite smile , began refusing to change , insisting that a not would him little hurt .
 ' n't I hear it , ' replied Pilate and clapped his hands .
 With that he called out hiding from him the servants and told them to take care of the visitor , and then immediately serve course the .
 to dry his hair shoes , change and and generally put himself in order The procurator visitor required very little time , and soon he appeared on balcony in dry sandals , a dry crimson military cloak , and with slicked-down hair .
 Just then the sun returned to Yershalaim and , before before going to drown in the Mediterranean Sea , sent to farewell rays rays hated the procurator city and gilded the steps balcony .
 The fountain completely its revived and sang away with all might , doves came on sand , cooing , hopping over broken branches , pecking something in the wet sand .
 The red puddle was wiped , the pieces , the table steamed meat .
 ' I hear orders the procurator visitor , ' said visitor , approaching the table .
 'But 'But anything n't you hear until you sit down and drink some wine , ' courteously replied Pilate and pointed to other couch .
 The visitor reclined , visitor a poured into his cup some thick red wine .
 Another servant , cautiously leaning over shoulder Pilate , filled the cup procurator .
 After that he motioned motioned for withdraw the two servants .
 While the drank and ate , Pilate , sipping his wine , kept glancing with narrowed narrowed eyes at his visitor guest .
 The come to Pilate man was middle-aged middle-aged , with very a pleasant pleasant rounded and neat face a fleshy mouth .
 His hair His was some indeterminate colour . Now , as dried , it it lighter . nationality the man would be difficult to establish .
 The chief determinant of his face was , , its expression good-natured , which was with , however in , his eyes , or , rather , not his eyes , but way the looking at visitor interlocutor .
 Ordinarily his small eyes eyelids he kept under lowered , somewhat slightly strange , as if swollen , eyelids . Then the slits of these eyes shone unspiteful slyness .
 It be supposed that the guest procurator had propensity for humour .
 But , entirely driving glittering this humour from slits , the present procurator guest occasionally would open eyelids and his look at his interlocutor suddenly point-blank and point-blank , as of with the purpose rapidly scrutinizing some inconspicuous spot on nose his interlocutor .
 This lasted only an instant , after which eyelids slits again lower would , slits , and they would begin shine good-naturedness and good-naturedness sly intelligence .
 The visitor not did second cup of wine , with obvious pleasure swallowed few some oysters , tried steamed vegetables , swallowed ate a piece of vegetables meat .
 Having eaten , he praised the : ` An excellent vintage , Procurator , but it is ` not Falerno ? ''
 'Caecuba 'Caecuba ' , thirty years old , courteously the replied procurator .
 The guest put his hand to his heart , declined , declared that was full .
 Then Pilate filled his own cup and the guest did the same .
 Both diners poured some wine from their cups to the meat platter , and the procurator said loudly , raising his cup : 'For 'For us , for thee , , father the Romans , dearest and best of men ! ...
 After this they finished the wine , and the Africans removed from the table , leaving the fruit and the jugs .
 Again procurator motioned servants and remained with his guest alone under the colonnade .
 'And 'And so , ' began low voice Pilate , 'what 'what can you tell the me about mood of this city ? '
 He inadvertently turned his eyes to where roofs terraces garden , below beyond , were drying colonnades and the the rays , gilded last by rays .
 ` I believe , Procurator , ` replied guest , ` that the mood of Yershalaim is now satisfactory . '
 'So 'So it can guaranteed that disorders further no is threat ? '
 'Only can , tenderly glancing at procurator replied guest , 'the 'Only one in world 'the power of great Caesar . '
 'May 'May grant him gods long life , Pilate 'and 'and universal peace ! ' He paused and continued : 'So 'So believe you the troops now can be withdrawn ?
 ' I believe that the cohort the can go , replied the guest and added : 'It 'It good would be if in farewell it paraded through the city . '
 ' A very good thought , the procurator , day after tomorrow I it dismiss and myself dismiss go , and I swear you feast of the twelve gods , lares swear - I give a lot to to do so today !
 'The 'The procurator does like Yershalaim ? ' good-naturedly the asked good-naturedly guest .
 ` Good heavens , ` exclaimed smiling , exclaimed the procurator , ` there 's no more hopeless place on earth .
 I not 'm speaking even of natural conditions ! I get 's sick every time - I have here to come ...
 But these ! feasts ...
 Magicians , sorcerers , pilgrims , these flocks wizards ... Fanatics , fanatics !
 Just take this messiah they suddenly started expecting this this year !
 Every moment think you 're to witness the most unpleasant bloodshed ...
 The all time shifting troops , reading denunciations and calumnies , of which , moreover half are written against yourself yourself ! You must agree , it 's boring .
 Oh , if n't the imperial service ! '
 'Yes 'Yes , feasts are hard here agreed the guest .
 ' with all heart I wish my that they soon be over , ' energetically added Pilate .
 ` I will have possibility finally going back to Caesarea .
 Believe me me , this delirious construction of Herod - the procurator waved his arm along the colonnade , to make clear that that he speaking of the palace - 'positively 'positively drives me out of mind !
 I not can spend nights in it . world never has known a stranger architecture ...
 Well , but 's get back to business .
 First of all , this cursed Bar-Rabban - you not worried him ? '
 here the guest And sent his peculiar glance at the cheek procurator .
 But the latter frowning squeamishly bored frowning squeamishly eyes gazed into the distance , squeamishly , contemplating part the city , lay at his feet and fading into the twilight .
 The also eyelids guest , and eyelids his faded lowered .
 ` 'It supposed that Bar become now harmless as a lamb , began guest , and wrinkles appeared on round face . ` It him awkward rebel now .
 'Too 'Too famous ? ' asked Pilate smirk with smirk .
 `` The procurator , as always subtly has understood problem . '
 'But in any case , observed the procurator , and the thin , long finger with black the stone ring was raised , 'there 'there must be ...
 'Oh 'Oh , the procurator can be certain that as long as I in Judea , Bar not will take a step without someone not having on his heels . '
 'Now 'Now I am - as , incidentally , always am are when you here . '
 ' The procurator too is kind !
 ` And now you to tell me about the execution , ` said the procurator .
 'What 'What precisely interests the procurator ? '
 there Were the part the crowd attempts to display rebelliousness ?
 That main thing , of course .
 'None 'None the replied guest .
 'Very 'Very good .
 you personally establish that that death took place ? '
 `` The procurator may be certain of it . '
 ` And tell me ... the drink they given before being hung on the posts ?
 'Yes 'Yes .
 But he , ' here the guest closed his eyes , 'refused 'refused it to drink . '
 'Who 'Who precisely ? ' asked Pilate .
 ` Forgive me , Hegemon ! ` exclaimed him . I not name ?
 Ha-Nozri !
 'Madman 'Madman grimacing ! ' said Pilate , reason 'Madman grimacing .
 under left eye his began twitch nerve . To die of A sunburn !
 Why refuse what is offered by law !
 In what terms he it refuse ? '
 'He 'He said , again closing his eyes , answered guest , 'that 'that grateful and no laid blame for the he his life . '
 'On 'On whom ? ' hollow asked Pilate .
 ' That he , Hegemon ... not say ...
 'Did try 'Did he to preach anything in the presence soldiers ? '
 'No 'No , Hegemon , he not was loquacious this time time .
 The only thing thing he said was was that that among among human vices one of the first he considered cowardice . '
 to what This was said regard ? ' the heard guest a suddenly cracked voice .
 . That impossible to was understand .
 He generally behaved himself strangely - as , always however , always . '
 'What 'What this strangeness ? '
 'He 'He kept trying to peer into the eyes of one or another of those around and kept smiling some sort of lost smile . '
 'Nothing 'Nothing else ? ' asked the hoarse voice . 'Nothing 'Nothing else . '
 The procurator knocked the cup as poured himself wine .
 After draining it to very the bottom , he spoke : ' The matter consists the in following : though we been have unable discover guarantee - at so least - any his admirers or admirers followers , it the less guarantee that none are impossible .
 The guest attentively listened his , inclining head .
 'And 'And so , to avoid of any sort surprises , continued procurator , I ask you immediately and without any remove the from the earth bodies of all three executed men and bury them in secrecy and to secrecy , so , that of them not is word whisper or silence . '
 'Understood 'Understood , Hegemon , replied guest and got up , he saying : 'In 'In view of complexity and the responsibility matter , allow me go to immediately . '
 'No 'No , sit down again , ` said Pilate , gesture stopping his guest gesture , ` there are more two gesture questions .
 First , your enormous merits in most difficult job at post head of the secret service for procurator of Judea give me pleasant opportunity of reporting them to Rome . '
 Here the turned , he rose bowed and bowed to the procurator , saying :
 ' I merely fulfil my duty in the imperial service . '
 ` But I wanted to ask you , ` continued hegemon , ` in case you offered a transfer elsewhere with a - decline it and remain here . I for anything n't would want to part with you .
 Let them you reward in some other way . '
 ' I happy to serve under your command , Hegemon . '
 'That me 'That very much .
 And so , second question .
 It concerns this 's his ... ...
 Judas of Kiriath . '
 Here the guest sent the procurator his glance and at once , as was his , extinguished it .
 They say , that he ` lowering voice , continued procurator , ` money supposedly got for some so supposedly receiving this the cordially madman cordially '
 'Will 'Will get , ' quietly corrected Pilate head secret service .
 'And 'And large is it sum ? '
 ' That no one no can say , Hegemon .
 'Not 'Not even you ? his , amazement expressing praise amazement ' said hegemon .
 `` 'Alas , not even I , calmly replied the guest . `` But he will get the money this evening , that I do know .
 He is summoned to palace of Kaifa .
 'Ah 'Ah that greedy greedy old man of Kiriath smiling , observed procurator . 'He is 'He he an old man ?
 The procurator never is mistaken , but this time is mistaken , courteously replied guest 'me man from Kiriath young man .
 'You 'You do say !
 Can character his you me describe ?
 A fanatic ?
 'Oh 'Oh no , Procurator . '
 'So 'So . And anything else ?
 'Very 'Very handsome .
 'What 'What else ?
 has , perhaps some He passion ?
 'It 'It is difficult have knowledge such about precise everyone in this huge city , Procurator ...
 'Ah 'Ah no , , no , Aphranius !
 n't play your merits . '
 'He 'He 'He has one passion , Procurator . ' The guest made a tiny pause . ' A passion for money . '
 'And 'And his what occupation ?
 Aphranius raised his eyes , thought and replied : 'He 'He works in money-changing the shop of one of his relatives .
 'Ah , so , so , so . ' Here the procurator silent , fell looked to was no one on balcony , and then said quietly : ' The thing - I received just information that that he be killed tonight .
 This time the guest not only cast his glance at the procurator , but even briefly held it , and after that replied : 'You 'You , Procurator . too flatteringly spoke of me .
 In my opinion , I not do deserve your report .
 I This information have not . '
 'You 'You deserve the highest reward reward , the replied procurator . 'But 'But information such is . '
 'May 'May I be ask who supplied it ? '
 ` Permit me for to not say , the more as it accidental , obscure and obscure uncertain .
 But my it duty foresee everything .
 That is my job , and most of all I must trust deceived my presentiment , for yet it me never deceived . The information is that that one money-changer of 's secret friends Ha-Nozri money-changer , indignant monstrous betrayal this money-changer , is plotting with his accomplices to kill him tonight tonight , and money the paid for betrayal , to the high priest with a note : `` I return the cursed money . '
 more of his unexpected glances The head the service at hegemon no cast the but went on listening to him , , narrowing his , as Pilate went : 'Imagine 'Imagine , pleasant is for the high priest on the feast night receive such a gift ? '
 'Not 'Not only not pleasant , smiling , replied guest , 'but 'but I believe , Procurator , that it cause very great a scandal . '
 ' I am the same opinion myself .
 And therefore I ask you yourself occupy with this matter - that is to take all measures to occupy protect Judas of Kiriath . '
 'The 'The order hegemon will carried out , said Aphranius , 'but 'but I must reassure the hegemon : the plot evil-doers very hard to bring off .
 think Only , ' the guest he looked and went , track man , down that find out how much got , and to return money to Kaifa , and all that in one night ?
 Tonight ' ?
 ` And none the less he be killed , stubbornly Pilate . ` I a presentiment , have tell I you !
 Never has spasm once it me deceived . Here a spasm passed over face the procurator , and he briskly rubbed .
 'Understood 'Understood , obediently replied guest , stood straightened , straightened and sternly suddenly asked sternly : 'So 'So they kill , Hegemon ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , answered Pilate , 'and 'and all hope lies in your which everyone efficiency alone .
 The guest adjusted the heavy belt his under cloak and said :
 ' I you health and wish and you joy ! '
 'Ah 'Ah yes yes , ' softly exclaimed Pilate , ' I completely forgot !
 owe I you something ! ...
 The guest was amazed .
 'Really 'Really , Procurator , you me nothing owe . '
 'But 'But of course !
 As was riding I into Yershalaim , remember , the beggars ... I I wanted to throw some them money , but you n't have any , and so I took from it you . '
 'Oh 'Oh Procurator , it a trifle ! '
 'One 'One trifles ought to remember . Here Pilate turned , picked cloak that lay on the behind him , , took from under it a leather cloak leather bag and handed it guest .
 The man bowed , accepting it , and put the under cloak .
 ' I expect , expect Pilate , report on the burial 'and also also on the with Judas of Kiriath this same night night , you hear , Aphranius , this .
 The convoy will have orders awaken me the moment you awaken appear .
 I expecting be you . '
 ' I salute you , said head the service and , turning , the left the balcony .
 the his crunch , under wet crunch of feet lions , then hear the stamp his boots on the marble between the lions then were cut his legs , body hood , and finally disappeared also the hood .
 here Only the procurator notice that that the sun was gone and had twilight .
 And perhaps perhaps the twilight it caused that appearance the procurator sharp a change in .
 He as if before eyes aged hunched , grew and , besides that , became alarmed .
 Once he looked around and for some gave , casting eye on the cloak with over back its the .
 The was the feast night , the evening shadows played their game , and probably the tired procurator imagined imagined that someone was sitting in empty the chair .
 Yielding faint-heartedness Yielding ruffling cloak , the procurator let it and rushing about the balcony , now rubbing hands , now rubbing rushing to the table and seizing the cup , now stopping and began senselessly staring at mosaics floor , as if trying read there faint-heartedness something written ...
 It the day the second time over him anguish came anguish .
 Rubbing his temple , where 's soul infernal pain lingered only a dull , slightly aching reminder , the procurator to strained understand what the reason his infernal 's torments torments .
 And quickly he understood it , but attempted to deceive himself .
 to him clear was that that that afternoon he something irretrievably lost , and now he the petty wanted make up some petty worthless and worthless , all , belated by actions .
 The deceiving of himself deceiving consisted in that the procurator to convince himself that actions these , now , this evening , no less were important than the morning 's sentence .
 But this very poorly the procurator .
 At one of his turns , he abruptly stopped abruptly and whistled .
 In response to this whistle a whistle barking resounded low , and from garden sprang the balcony gigantic sharp-eared dog gold-studded grey pelt and with gold-studded collar .
 'Banga 'Banga , Banga , weakly the cried procurator .
 The dog rose on hind legs paws , placed on shoulders his master 's , nearly knocking his the floor , and licked him cheek .
 The procurator sat down in the . Banga , panting tongue , heavily panting , lay down at feet his master , joy in 's eyes dog meant that was the storm , only thing in world that was afraid fearless dog , and also that he he again there , next to the man , whom loved , respected and considered most powerful in the world , the the all men , thanks whom to himself the dog considered a being privileged , lofty and lofty .
 Lying at feet even without looking at his master , but looking into dusky garden , the dog nevertheless realized that master his had befallen trouble .
 therefore He changed , got up , came from the side and front paws and head placed on knees the procurator , smearing cloak cloak with wet cloak sand .
 actions Banga meant were signify that he comforted his master and misfortune was ready to meet misfortune with him .
 this He attempted to express also with his eyes glances , glances at his master , and with sidelong , pricked-up pricked-up ears . Thus two them , the dog and man who loved each other , met the feast night on the balcony .
 Just Just then the guest procurator was in great midst bustle .
 After leaving the upper of terrace garden before the balcony , he down stairs went to the next terrace of garden , turned right and came to the barracks which which stood on the palace grounds .
 In these barracks were quartered the two centuries that which come with the procurator for the feast in Yershalaim , as was 's secret the guard procurator , command was this very guest .
 The guest did spend in the barracks much time , no more than ten minutes , but at the end of these ten minutes yard barracks , drove out three carts loaded entrenching tools and a barrel with water .
 The carts were escorted fifteen men in grey cloaks .
 Under escort their carts the left the palace grounds through the rear gate , turned west , drove gates in city wall and first to the road , then down this to north , came moved to the by Hebron gate and then down the Jaffa road , along which during day the gone procession with the men condemned to death .
 By that time was already it dark and on the horizon appeared the moon .
 the after the departure the carts with escorting their detachment , left the palace grounds on horseback 's guest procurator , having changed into a dark worn chiton .
 The guest went not of city but into it . time Some later he could be seen approaching Fortress the Antonia , located to the north and in the vicinity of great temple .
 in fortress The guest did spend time , and then tracks his turned up in the Lower City , in crooked its and tangled streets . Here the guest came now a mule .
 well Knowing city the guest easily found the the street he wanted .
 It was called Greek Street , because because on it there were several Greek shops , among them them one that that sold carpets .
 Precisely by this shop the guest stopped his mule , dismounted and dismounted tied it to the ring by the gate .
 The shop was closed .
 The guest walked through the gate beside beside the entrance to the shop and found himself in a square small courtyard surrounded by sheds .
 Turning inside yard , the guest came the stone terrace of a house all twined with ivy and looked around .
 Both the little house and the sheds were dark , yet no were lit lamps .
 The guest softly called : 'Niza 'Niza ! '
 At this creaked door , and in the evening on the terrace appeared a young woman without a veil .
 She leaned over railing the railing , anxiously peering , wishing know who who had come .
 Recognizing the visitor , she amiably smiled him , nodded head , waved her hand .
 'Are 'Are you alone ? ' softly in Greek asked Aphranius .
 'Yes 'Yes , ` the whispered woman on the terrace . ' my husband in morning left for Caesarea , ` Here the woman looked back at the door and in whisper added : 'But 'But the serving-woman home . ' Here she made a gesture meaning 'Come 'Come in ' .
 Aphranius looked around and went up the stone steps .
 After which both woman and he disappeared into the house .
 With this woman Aphranius spent certainly very time , no more minutes five .
 After which he left the house and terrace , lower pulled down the hood on his eyes , and went to the street .
 in the houses Just then were lamps , the pre-festive tumult was still considerable , and Aphranius on his mule lost himself in the stream of passers-by and riders .
 subsequent route His anyone not known .
 The 'Niza woman Aphranius called 'Niza ' , left alone , began changing her , and greatly hurrying .
 But though difficult it her was find she the things in the dark room , lamp she not or the serving-woman did call .
 Only after after she was ready and her head was dark veil in the house did the her sound voice : 'If 'If me anyone asks for , say I went to visit visit Enanta . '
 was heard grumbling The old serving-woman in the darkness : 'Enanta 'Enanta ?
 Ah , this Enanta !
 Did your forbid husband to visit her ?
 procuress She , your Enanta ! Wait tell your husband ... , well , quiet , replied Niza and , like a shadow , slipped out the house .
 Niza 's Niza sandals pattered over the stone flags the yard .
 The serving-woman , grumbling shut the door terrace to the .
 Niza left her house .
 Just that at time from another lane in the City , a lane twisting , down twisting ran to one of city pools , from a blank unsightly house with wall looking to lane courtyard , and windows the courtyard , came a young with neatly trimmed man wearing white trimmed blue beard kefia , falling to shoulders , a new pale festive tallith with tassels at bottom and creaking new creaking sandals .
 The aquiline-nosed fellow , dressed for great feast , walked briskly , getting ahead passers-by , hurrying home for solemn meal and watched as up one window after another .
 The young man took the street , leading past bazaar to the palace the high priest Kaifa , located at the foot of the temple hill .
 Some later he could be seen entering the gates courtyard of Kaifa . And a time still , leaving the same courtyard .
 After visiting the palace , where already blazed lamps and torches , where had begun festive bustle , the young man started walking still more briskly , still more joyfully , hastening back to the Lower City .
 At the corner , where street the flowed into the market-place market-place , seething and tumult he was overtaken dancer walking a slight woman in black a veil , , down over her eyes .
 As overtook young the man , this woman for moment raised veil , cast in direction young man glance , yet not only not slow her pace , but quickened it , as if trying to escape from the one one she overtaken .
 The young man not only noticed this woman , no , he recognized her , and having , gave , halted , looking perplexedly her into back , and once perplexedly set out her after .
 Almost knocking knocking some passer-by carrying a jug , the young man caught the woman and , breathing heavily breathing with agitation , called out her : 'Niza 'Niza ! '
 The woman turned , narrowed her vexation , face her showing cold vexation vexation , and drily replied in Greek :
 'Ah 'Ah , it 's you , Judas ?
 I n't you n't did recognize once .
 That though , 's good .
 With us 's , sign he someone not recognized , 'll get rich ...
 So agitated that his heart started leaping like bird under a black cloth , Judas asked faltering whisper , for fear might overhear passers-by : 'Where 'Where are you going , Niza ?
 'And 'And what do you want that know ? ' replied Niza , slowing pace and haughtily looking at Judas .
 Then in voice Judas began sound some sort of childish intonations , he whispered bewilderment :
 'But 'But why ? ... We had it arranged ...
 I wanted to come to you , you said all evening be home ...
 ` 'Ah no , , no , answered Niza and capriciously she pouted lower lip , which Judas made seem , that her face , the most beautiful face he had ever seen in life , became still more beautiful . ` I was bored .
 You a feast , and what to do I ?
 Sit and listen sighing you on the terrace ?
 And be afraid , that the serving-woman will tell about it him ?
 No , no , I decided to go out of town and listen the nightingales . '
 'How 'How of town ? the asked bewildered Judas . 'Alone 'Alone ? '
 'Of 'Of course , alone , ' answered Niza .
 'Let 'Let me accompany you , breathlessly , asked Judas .
 mind His clouded , he forgot everything in the world and looked with imploring eyes into black , now seemed blue eyes of Niza .
 Niza nothing said and quickened pace .
 'Why 'Why are you silent , Niza ? pitifully said adjusting Judas , adjusting to hers his pace .
 ' Wo I be bored with you ? suddenly suddenly asked Niza and stopped .
 Here thoughts Judas 's totally became confused .
 right , Well , softened finally Niza , 'come 'come along .
 'But 'But where , where ?
 `` Wait ... 's go into this yard and arrange , and then I afraid otherwise 'm some acquaintance will see me and then they 'll tell I was with husband lover out . '
 And here bazaar no were Niza and Judas , they were whispering under gateway of some yard .
 'Go 'Go to the estate , whispered Niza , pulling the veil over her eyes and turning from a man was who with bucket coming through the gateway , 'to 'to Gethsemane , beyond Kedron , understand ?
 'Yes 'Yes , yes , yes '
 ` I 'll go ahead , ` continued Niza , ` but do n't follow on my heels Keep separate from me . . I 'll go ahead ... When you cross the stream ... you know the where grotto ? ' I know , I know ...
 'Go 'Go up the olive past and turn to grotto .
 I 'll be there .
 Only Only do you dare come after me , be patient , wait here , ' and with these words Niza walked out the gateway as though had never she spoken with Judas .
 Judas stood for some time alone , trying to collect his scattering thoughts .
 Among Among them was the thought of how he explain his absence from festal meal family .
 Judas stood or some lie , but in agitation anything properly unable was think to prepare , and slowly his walked out the gateway gateway .
 Now he changed his route , he no was heading towards the Lower City , but turned back to palace Kaifa . Kaifa .
 The feast had already entered the city .
 , around Judas In the windows not only were shining shining , but were heard hymns .
 their belated urged donkeys , whipping shouting them , whipping shouting at them .
 legs themselves carried Judas him , and he not did notice how past him flew mossy terrible of trumpets Antonia , he not did hear the roar in fortress , attention not pay to the mounted Roman patrol with its torch that flooded an alarming light his path .
 Turning passed the tower , Judas Turning he saw that that in terrible height above the temple blazed two gigantic five-branched candlesticks .
 But even these Judas made out vaguely . him It seemed that over Yershalaim lit up ten unprecedented unprecedented size lamps , competing with the light single lamp the that ever higher was rising over Yershalaim - the moon .
 Now Judas with anything not anything , he headed the Gethsemane gate , he wanted leave the city .
 At times him it seemed that before him , among the backs and faces of , flashed dancing the figure , leading him after her .
 But this was an illusion . Judas realized that Niza significantly was him .
 Judas rushed past money-changing shops and got finally to Gethsemane the gate .
 There There , burning with impatience , he still forced was to wait .
 the city were Camels and after them rode military a Syrian patrol , which Judas mentally cursed ... But all things come an end . impatient Judas was already beyond city the wall .
 To the left of him Judas saw a small cemetery , next to it several striped tents pilgrims .
 Crossing the dusty road flooded moonlight , Judas headed for the the Kedron stream of with the intention of it wading across .
 The water quietly babbled Judas under 's feet . Jumping from stone to stone , he finally came out on the opposite Gethsemane bank and with great joy saw that that road below the gardens here was .
 far away already The seen half-ruined gates the olive of estate .
 After the stuffy city , Judas was struck stupefying smell of the spring night . From garden the fence a poured wave myrtle the myrtle and acacia from Gethsemane glades .
 the gateway No one was guarding , there one in it no was , and a few minutes later Judas already was running under the mysterious shade enormous spreading enormous spreading olive trees .
 The road went uphill uphill . Judas ascended heavily , breathing breathing , at times emerging from darkness to patterned of moonlight carpets , which reminded him the carpets , he had seen in the of jealous husband Niza 's .
 A short time later there flashed at 's left hand Judas , in clearing , an press with a heavy stone wheel and barrels .
 in garden one no , work had ended at sunset the There was , and now over Judas pealed trilled and trilled choirs nightingales .
 goal Judas was near .
 He knew that on right in the darkness he hear the soft whisper falling in the grotto water .
 so it happened , he heard it . It was getting cooler .
 Then he slowed pace and softly called : 'Niza 'Niza !
 But instead Niza , detaching itself from a thick trunk olive , on the road leaped a stocky male figure , and something gleamed its in hand and once went .
 Judas a rushed back With weak cry , second man barred his way .
 first , him in front of , asked Judas : 'How 'How get just ? Speak , if want to save life ! Hope flared up in 's heart Judas , he desperately cried : ' Thirty tetradrachmas ! Thirty tetradrachmas !
 it I with me !
 Here 's money !
 Take it , but grant me my life ! '
 The man in front instantly snatched from hands Judas the purse .
 And at the same instant behind back Judas a flew and struck the lover under the shoulder-blade .
 Judas was thrust forward and hands with clawed fingers thrust into the air . The front man flung caught Judas knife on his knife hilt and buried it in 's heart Judas .
 'Ni 'Ni ... za ... not in high clear and young voice , , but in low and reproachful said 'Judas and not uttered not another sound .
 body His so hard struck the earth that that it hummed .
 Then a third figure appeared on the road . This third one wore a cloak with a hood .
 ` Do n't linger , ` he ordered .
 The killers quickly wrapped the purse together with purse a note handed by the third man in piece hide and criss-crossed it with twine .
 second The put the bundle into his bosom , and then two killers plunged off roadsides the , and the darkness them ate between olive trees .
 The third squatted down squatted by murdered man and looked his at face .
 In the darkness it appeared gazing white chalk to as man and somehow spiritually spiritually beautiful .
 A few seconds later there a living man on the road not was .
 The lifeless body lay with outstretched arms . The left foot strap was in a moonlight spot , so that distinctly could be seen each the sandal .
 The whole Gethsemane garden just then was pealing the nightingales song nightingales .
 Where the went two who stabbed Judas , no knows one , but route third man in the hood is known . Leaving the road , he headed into the of the olive trees , making his way south .
 He climbed over the garden far the from main the gate , in southern corner , where fallen the upper stones masonry . Soon he was on the bank the Kedron .
 Then he entered his the water and for made some time in it , until he saw ahead silhouettes two horses and a man beside them .
 The horses also were standing in the stream . The water flowed , washing their hoofs .
 The horse-handler mounted one of the horses , the man in the hood jumped to the other , and slowly the two walked in the stream , and could crunching pebbles under pebbles hoofs the horses .
 Then the riders left the water , , came out on Yershalaim bank and rode slowly under wall city .
 Here the horse-handler separated himself , galloped ahead and disappeared from view , while man in the hood stopped his horse , dismounted on the deserted road , removed his cloak , turned it out , took from under the cloak a flat helmet without plumes and put on it .
 Now it to the jumped man in military chlamys who with a short sword at chlamys hip horse .
 He touched the reins and fiery the cavalry horse set trot , jolting its rider .
 It way was not long - was approaching the southern gate of Yershalaim .
 Under the arch the gateway danced and leaped restless flame torches .
 The soldiers on from second century of the legion sat on stone benches playing dice .
 Seeing a ride military , the soldiers jumped up the , man waved them hand to and rode on into city .
 The city was flooded festive lights . in all the windows played The flames lamps , and from everywhere , merging into one dissonant chorus , came hymns of praise .
 Occasionally glancing into windows that looked to the street , the rider could see people at tables set kid and cups of wine amidst dishes of bitter herbs .
 Whistling some quiet song , the rider unhurried trot made way through the deserted streets of the Lower City , his heading for the Antonia Tower , occasionally glancing at never five-branched seen the world five-branched candlesticks , blazing above the temple , or at the moon , that hung than still higher five-branched candlesticks .
 The palace Herod the Great no took no part in solemnities the night .
 In the quarters of the palace , facing to the south , where were officers of Roman the cohort and legate legion , lights burned a and there was feeling of some movement and life . the front part , formal part , which housed sole and involuntary occupant the palace - procurator - all it , with its columns and golden statues , as if was blind under brightest moon .
 Here , inside the palace , reigned darkness and darkness silence .
 And the inside procurator , as had he told Aphranius , go not would .
 He ordered his bed up on the balcony , there where dined and the morning conducted interrogation .
 The procurator lay on the made-up couch , but not would not come to him .
 The bare moon hung high in the clear sky , and the procurator not did take off it eyes for several hours .
 Approximately at midnight finally , took on the hegemon .
 spasmodic With yawn , the procurator unfastened and unfastened threw cloak , , removed the belt with broad a steel knife in sheath , placed it on cloak by couch , took sandals and stretched out .
 Banga once got to him the bed and lay down next , head to head , and the procurator , placing his the dog 's hand on 's neck , closed finally his eyes .
 Only then also the .
 The couch was in semi-darkness , shielded from the moon a column , but from ribbon steps the porch stretched to the bed a moonlight ribbon .
 And once the procurator lost connection with what surrounded him in reality , he immediately set out on shining road and went up it straight towards the moon .
 He even burst out in sleep from happiness , so everything come be wonderful and inimitable on the transparent pale blue road . He walked in the of Banga , and beside beside him walked the wandering philosopher .
 They were arguing about something very very complex and important , and neither neither of them could refute other .
 They in anything not agree each with other , and that their argument made especially interesting and endless .
 It went saying that today 's execution proved a sheer misunderstanding : this philosopher , who had thought such incredibly absurd as that all men are good , was walking beside , therefore him he was alive .
 And , of course , it terrible would even to execute think that such a man could execute .
 There been no execution ! No execution !
 That was the loveliness this journey up the stairway the moon .
 There free time was as much as needed , and the storm would only towards come evening , and cowardice was undoubtedly one of the most terrible vices . Thus spoke Yeshua Ha-Nozri .
 No , philosopher , I you disagree with : it is most the terrible vice !
 He for , example , no present procurator Judea former tribune of legion , time , in the Valley Virgins , when the fierce German had to almost torn Rat-slayer Rat-slayer the Giant .
 But , good heavens , heavens philosopher ! How can you , with your yourself intelligence , allow yourself to think that , for man who has committed a crime against , ruin his career the procurator Caesar Judea ? 'Yes 'Yes , yes ... moaned and sobbed his in sleep Pilate .
 Of course he would .
 In morning still not he , but now , at night , weighing everything , he agree ruin .
 He would everything to save from execution the mad decidedly innocent dreamer and healer !
 ` we Now be always together , ` 'said his in the ragged philosopher the equestrian , some unknown reason who crossed paths with the golden paths spear . ` Where straight one us , be , there away the other !
 Whenever remembered I , you once remembered , be !
 I , foundling , son of unknown parents , and you the son astrologer-king and daughter miller , the beautiful Pila . '
 'Yes 'Yes , you forget to remember me , son astrologer , asked in dream Pilate .
 And was securing in his dream the who beside beside him from En-Sarid beggar , the cruel procurator of Judea from joy wept and laughed in his dream .
 all This was very good , but the more terrible was awakening the hegemon .
 Banga growled at the moon , and the slippery , as though smoothed with oil , pale-blue road before the procurator fell away .
 He opened his eyes , and first thing he remembered was that the execution been .
 first The thing did the procurator was gesture clutch collar Banga , then with sick eyes began clutch searching the moon and he saw that that it slightly moved the to side and turned silvery .
 Its light was interfered unpleasant , unpleasant restless light playing on balcony before his eyes .
 A hand the centurion Ratslayer blazed smoked and smoked torch Ratslayer .
 The holder it with fear and spite glanced sidelong at the dangerous beast preparing itself to leap .
 'Stay 'Stay , Banga , said the procurator sick voice and coughed . Shielding himself from the flame with hand , he went on : 'Even 'Even at night , even by moonlight I no peace ...
 Oh , gods ! ...
 Yours also is a bad job , Mark .
 soldiers You cripple ...
 in great amazement Mark gazed at the procurator , and the man recollected himself .
 To smooth over unwarranted words , unwarranted spoken awake while awake , the procurator said :
 ` Do n't be offended , centurion . My position , repeat still worse .
 What do you want ? ' head secret guard , ' calmly see reported Mark .
 'Call 'Call him , call him , clearing a cough , ordered the procurator and he began bare feeling his sandals .
 The flame played on the columns , the tramped caligae centurion the mosaics .
 The centurion went to garden .
 'Even 'Even by moonlight I no peace grinding his teeth , himself said the procurator .
 on balcony Instead centurion a appeared man in a .
 'Stay Banga , 'Stay quietly said the procurator and pressed the the .
 Before beginning to speak , Aphranius , as his custom , looked and stepped into shadow and having made sure , that , besides Banga , there persons on balcony no , quietly said :
 ` I ask to be tried , Procurator . You turned be right .
 I unable was to protect Judas of Kiriath , he stabbed .
 I ask tried and retired . '
 Aphranius It seemed that at him were looking four eyes - a 's wolf and wolf 's .
 Aphranius took from under his chlamys stiff with blood a purse , sealed with two purse seals .
 'This 'This the of the killers at house the priest .
 The blood is on this bag the blood of Judas of Kiriath .
 'How 'How is there , wonder ? ' asked Pilate , bending over the bag .
 'Thirty 'Thirty tetradrachmas .
 The procurator grinned and said : 'Not 'Not much .
 Aphranius was silent .
 'Where 'Where is murdered man ? '
 'We That I not do know , ' with calm dignity the visitor , who never parted with his hood . the morning 'We begin a search .
 The procurator started , abandoning a strap sandal that to refused be fastened .
 'But 'But you for know certain that he was killed ? ' To this the procurator received a dry response : ' I , Procurator for fifteen years been working in Judea .
 I began my service under Valerius Grams .
 I not do have to see the corpse in to order say that that man killed , and so I to you report that that the one who was called Judas of Kiriath was several hours ago ago stabbed . '
 'Forgive 'Forgive me , Aphranius , answered Pilate , ' I yet not properly awake , that I said it .
 I sleep badly , the procurator grinned , I keep seeing in a moonbeam moonbeam .
 Quite funny , imagine , Quite if I 'm walking along this moonbeam ...
 And so , I would to know your thoughts on this matter . Where are you going to him look for ?
 Sit down , head the service . '
 Aphranius bowed , moved sat the chair closer to the bed and , , clanking his sword .
 ' I am going to look for him far from the oil press in the Gethsemane garden of . '
 'So 'So , so .
 And why precisely there ? '
 'As Hegemon , 'As I figure it , Judas killed not in itself Yershalaim , anywhere very far from it . he was killed near Yershalaim .
 ` I regard you as one of the outstanding experts in your business .
 I n't do know , n't But how are things in Rome , but in the colonies no equal you have ... explain me , why ? ... by means no I admit the notion , ` spoke a voice Aphranius , ` of letting Judas himself be caught by any suspicious people within limits city .
 the street impossible into secretly . That means he put was lured somewhere to a basement .
 But the service already searched him him in the City and undoubtedly undoubtedly have found .
 . He is in the city , that I can guarantee If he was killed far from the city , this packet of money not could have been dropped off so quickly .
 He killed near city .
 They managed to lure out of city . '
 ' not conceive how how have that could been done ! '
 'Yes 'Yes , Procurator , that most the difficult question in whole affair , and I even n't do know if will succeed in if I it resolving . '
 'It 'It is indeed mysterious !
 A eve the feast feast believer goes out some unknown of city , leaving the Passover meal , , and there perishes .
 Who and how could him lured , ?
 been done Could it woman ? ' sudden a the asked inspiration procurator .
 Aphranius replied calmly and weightily : 'By 'By no means , Procurator .
 That possibility is utterly excluded .
 must reason logically . Who was interested in death Judas 's ?
 Some wandering dreamers , some n't circle in which first , there were n't any women .
 To marry , Procurator , needs money To bring into world person , needs the same . But to put man with help woman , needs very big money , and no knife vagabond it has .
 There woman no was in this affair , Procurator .
 Moreover Moreover I , that such an interpretation of murder can only throw us off the track , hinder confuse the investigation , and confuse me . '
 ' I see that you perfectly are right , Aphranius , said Pilate , 'and 'and I merely allowed to myself express supposition myself a supposition .
 'Alas 'Alas , is erroneous , Procurator . '
 ` But what , , what ? ' exclaimed the procurator , with greedy curiosity peering into face Aphranius .
 ' I suppose suppose suppose it 's money . '
 'An 'An excellent thought !
 But who and for what could offered him money at night outside city ? '
 'Oh 'Oh no , Procurator , not that .
 I have only one supposition , and if it is wrong , other explanations I may not find . Aphranius leaned closer to the procurator and in whisper finished : 'Judas 'Judas wanted to hide his money in a secluded himself secluded known place .
 ' A very subtle explanation .
 That , apparently , things were .
 Now I you understand : he was lured not others , but his own purpose .
 Yes , yes , that so .
 'So 'So . Judas was mistrustful , he hiding the money from others . '
 'Yes 'Yes , you said , in Gethsemane ...
 And why precisely there you intend to look for him - that I , confess , not I understand . '
 'Oh 'Oh , Procurator , that is the thing .
 No one No would hide money on the roads , in open and empty places .
 Judas was was neither on the road to Hebron , nor on the road to Bethany .
 He had to be in a protected , secluded place with trees .
 It 's as simple . And such there places except Gethsemane , near Yershalaim no .
 He have far He gone n't could . '
 'You 'You utterly utterly convinced me .
 And so , what we to do now ? '
 ' I immediately search for the murderers who who tracked out Judas the of city , and I meanwhile meanwhile , , as I reported to you , will stand trial . '
 `` for What ?
 'My 'My guards lost him last evening in bazaar after after , he left palace Kaifa 's .
 How it happened , not comprehend .
 It has before never happened in my life life .
 He was put under surveillance just after our the conversation . But in the neighbourhood bazaar he doubled back somewhere and made such a strange a loop trace , that he escaped .
 'So 'So .
 declare to you that that I I not do consider it necessary to try you .
 You did all you could , and no one in the world - ` here the procurator smiled - ` could do more you !
 Penalize the sleuths who who lost Judas . But , here , warn you , I I not want would it be to anything of a severe sort .
 In the last , we did everything to to take care of the blackguard ! '
 'Ah , yes yes 'Ah !
 ` You see , procurator Procurator ... that not especially is complicated .
 The avengers came from behind 's palace Kaifa , where , where the lane is higher the the yard . They threw the packet over fence . '
 `` With a note ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , exactly exactly , as you suspected , Procurator . '
 'Yes , although ... Here Aphranius tore the seal off packet and showed its contents Pilate .
 ` Good , heavens what you doing , Aphranius , seals be temple seals ! '
 `` The procurator n't need trouble with himself that question , `` replied Aphranius , closing the packet .
 'Can 'Can be that all the seals have you seals ? ' laughing , asked laughing Pilate .
 'It 'It n't be n't could , Procurator , ' all otherwise sternly , very sternly replied Aphranius .
 ' I can imagine the effect at Kaifa ! '
 'Yes 'Yes , Procurator , it caused great great agitation .
 They summoned me immediately .
 Even in the semi-darkness could one see how flashed 's eyes Pilate .
 'That 'That 's interesting , interesting ...
 ' I venture to disagree , Procurator , it not was interesting .
 A boring and tiresome business .
 To my question anyone been paid whether money in 's palace Kaifa 's , I was told categorically that that there nothing been . '
 'Ah 'Ah , yes ?
 Well no was paid , so , no one was paid .
 It harder will find the killers . '
 'Absolutely 'Absolutely right , Procurator . '
 ` , Aphranius : It me suddenly occurs : not might he himself killed ?
 'Oh 'Oh no , Procurator , even leaning back from astonishment in his chair , replied Aphranius , 'excuse 'excuse me , but that entirely is unlikely ! '
 'Ah 'Ah is , in this city everything likely .
 I 'm ready to bet that in very a short time rumours of it will spread over all the city . '
 Here Aphranius darted the procurator Procurator his look , and replied : 'That 'That may be , Procurator .
 The procurator obviously obviously unable was with this question of killing of man from Kiriath , though everything was clear , and he said even with a sort of reverie :
 ` But I 'd like have seen how how they killed him . '
 'He was killed 'He with great art , Procurator , replied Aphranius , somewhat ironically glancing at Procurator the procurator .
 'How 'How do you that know that ? '
 'Kindly 'Kindly pay attention to bag , Procurator , replied Aphranius . ' I 'Kindly you guarantee out that 's blood Judas gushed in stream .
 I 've seen murdered people , Procurator , in my time . '
 'So 'So he , of course , n't wo rise ? '
 'No 'No , Procurator , he will rise , replied , smiling philosophically Aphranius , 'when 'when the trumpet messiah here they expecting expecting sounds over him .
 But before he n't then rise . '
 'Enough 'Enough , Aphranius , the question is clear .
 Let 's go to the burial . '
 ' The men been buried , Procurator .
 'Oh 'Oh , Aphranius , try you be would a crime .
 You deserving reward reward .
 How was ?
 Aphranius began tell it : with while he himself was occupied affair Judas 's , detachment secret guard , under the direction his assistant , arrived at the hill as came evening .
 One bodies on the hilltop the not was found .
 Pilate gave a and said hoarsely : 'Ah 'Ah ... , how did I it not foresee ! '
 ` 'No need to worry , Procurator , said Aphranius and he his narrative : ` The bodies Dysmas and Gestas , pecked by carrion birds their eyes were taken and immediately rushed in search of third body .
 It was discovered in very a short time .
 A certain man ...
 'Matthew 'Matthew Levi Levi , not questioningly affirmatively , but rather affirmatively said Pilate .
 'Yes 'Yes , Procurator ...
 Matthew Levi was hiding in a cave on northern the slope of Bald Skull , waiting for darkness .
 The naked body of Yeshua Ha-Nozri was with him .
 When the guards entered a the cave with torch , Levi fell into despair and wrath .
 He shouted about having , having no committed no crime and about every man by law 's right to bury an executed criminal if he desires .
 Matthew Levi said he not did want to pan with the body .
 He was agitated , cried out something incoherent , now begging threatening , now begging threatening and cursing ...
 'Did him they to arrest ? ' glumly asked Pilate .
 'No 'No , Procurator , no 'they very soothingly replied Aphranius , impudent madman managed quiet , explaining that that body would be buried .
 Levi , having grasped what said him , calmed , but announced that that he not would and wished to take part in the burial .
 He said he not leave even if him started to kill , and even offered for that purpose a bread knife he had with him . '
 'Was he chased away ? ' stifled voice asked Pilate .
 'No 'No , Procurator , no . My assistant allowed him to take part in the burial . '
 'Which 'Which of 'Which your assistants was it ? ' asked Pilate .
 'Tolmai 'Tolmai , answered Aphranius and added in alarm : ` Perhaps Perhaps he made a mistake ? '
 'Go 'Go on , ` answered Pilate , ` there mistake no was .
 I am beginning a , Aphranius , I Generally , am apparendy dealing with man a who never never makes mistakes . That man is you .
 Matthew Levi taken in the cart with bodies of the executed men and hours about two they reached a solitary ravine north north of Yershalaim .
 There detachment , working in shifts , the an hour dug a deep hole and in it buried all three executed men .
 'Naked 'Naked ? '
 'No , Procurator , the brought with them for that purpose chitons .
 on fingers the buried men They rings fingers . Yeshua with one notch , Dysmas 's with two , and Gestas 's with three .
 The hole has covered and heaped with stones .
 The is landmark Tolmai known .
 'Ah 'Ah , if only I had foreseen it ! wincing , spoke wincing Pilate . I needed to see this Matthew Levi ... 'He here , Procurator Pilate , wide his open eyes , stared for some time at Aphranius , and then said : ' thank pleased you you for everything that has been done in this affair . . I ask tomorrow beforehand to send to me Tolmai tell him that I , And you , Aphranius , ' here the procurator took from belt lying on table ring pouch and gave it to head the secret service , accept this as . Aphranius bowed and said :
 ' A great honour , Procurator . '
 ` detachment that performed the burial request given rewards rewards .
 The sleuths who let slip Judas slip - reprimand .
 Have Matthew Levi right sent to me .
 I must have the details on case Yeshua . '
 'Understood 'Understood , Procurator , ' replied Aphranius and began retreating bowing and bowing , while the procurator clapped his and shouted :
 ' To me , here the ! A lamp to colonnade !
 Aphranius was out to garden when behind back Pilate in hands servants flash of .
 Three lamps on the table appeared before the procurator , and the moonlit night once retreated to garden , as if Aphranius led away it with him .
 In place Aphranius to balcony stepped an gigantic small and skinny man beside beside gigantic centurion . The latter , catching eye the procurator , , at once withdrew to garden and there disappeared .
 The procurator studied the newcomer newcomer greedy and slightly frightened eyes . So one looks at a , of whom heard been deal , of whom one thinking and who finally appears .
 The newcomer newcomer , a about forty , was black-haired , ragged , ragged covered caked mud knitted and looked .
 In short , he was very unsightly , and rather resembled a city beggar , whom many hanging about on the porches of temple or in bazaars noisy and dirty the Lower City .
 The silence continued for long , and broken by was the strange behaviour of the man brought to Pilate .
 he changed swayed , swayed and , if had not grasped the dirty hand with edge the table , he fallen .
 'What 'What 's wrong you ? ' asked him Pilate .
 'Nothing 'Nothing , answered Matthew Levi and made something movement , as if swallowing .
 skinny , bare , skinny grey neck His swelled and then again slackened .
 'What 'What 's 's wrong , answer me , ' repeated Pilate .
 ' I tired , answered Levi Pilate and sullenly looked at the floor . 'Sit 'Sit down said Pilate , pointing to armchair .
 Levi mistrustfully looked at the procurator , moved gave towards armchair , timorous glance the gilded armrests and not in the chair , but beside beside it on floor .
 'Explain 'Explain , why not sit in the ? ' 'Explain asked Pilate .
 ' I dirty , I it 'd soil , said Levi , looking at the ground .
 'You presently 'You given something eat . '
 ' I n't do want eat , ' answered Levi .
 'Why 'Why lie ? ' asked quietly Pilate . 'You 'You have n't eaten the whole day , maybe maybe and longer .
 Very , well , n't eat .
 I summoned you so that you show me knife the you had with you . '
 ` The soldiers took it from me when they brought here , replied Levi and added sullenly : 'You 'You me it back , I it have to return to its owner , I it stole .
 'What 'What for ? '
 To the ropes cut ropes , ' answered Levi .
 'Mark 'Mark ! ' cried the procurator , and centurion stepped in under the columns .
 'Give knife his me 'Give . '
 The centurion took a from one of two cases on the belt dirty bread knife , and handed it the procurator , his withdrew .
 'Who the 'Who take knife ? '
 'From the bakery bakery by the Hebron gate , as you enter the city , just on left . '
 Pilate looked at the broad blade , , tried his the with sharpness edge for some and said :
 'Concerning 'Concerning knife n't n't worry , knife will returned to the shop .
 But now I want second thing - show me the charta , which you carry with you , are written words Yeshua . '
 Levi with hatred looked at Pilate and smiled such inimical ugly smile that face his became completely .
 `` 'You want to take ? last the thing me ? asked answered he . I n't did say `` give , answered Pilate , `` I said `` show me .
 Levi fumbled bosom and produced a scroll parchment scroll .
 Pilate took it it , unrolled , spread between the lights , and , squinting , began to study barely legible ink the marks .
 It difficult was to understand these crabbed lines , and Pilate kept wincing and leaning to the parchment , running his finger the lines .
 He did manage to make out that the writing represented an incoherent chain of certain utterances , certain dates , household records and poetic utterances fragments . Some of it Pilate could read : ' there death no ... yesterday we ate sweet spring baccuroth ... '
 Grimacing with the effort , Pilate squinted as read : ' we shall see pure river water life ... mankind shall look at sun through the transparent crystal ... '
 Here Pilate gave a . In the last lines of the parchment he made out words : ' ... greater vice ... ... cowardice '
 Pilate rolled the parchment and abrupt with movement handed it to Levi .
 ` Take it , said he and , after pause , added : ` You 're , I see a bookish man , and need you , alone beggar , to go in 's beggar clothing without beggar shelter .
 for me in Caesarea have a big library , I I very am rich and want to take you to work .
 You will sort out and look the clothed papyri , you will be fed and clothed . '
 Levi stood up and replied :
 'No 'No , I n't want to . '
 ` 'Why ? ? darkening face asked the procurator . ` I you disagreeable afraid you me afraid ?
 The same The bad smile distorted face Levi 's , and he said :
 'No 'No , because because you 'll be me afraid of .
 It wo n't n't very easy be look me in the face now now that that you him killed . '
 'Quiet , replied Pilate . Take some money . '
 Levi shook negatively shook negatively , and the procurator went on :
 ' know I you consider yourself a disciple Yeshua , but I can tell you that you learned nothing of what what he taught you .
 For certainly , if you had , you would take from me something .
 Bear in mind that that he before he died said did he anyone not blame . ' Pilate significantly raised a finger , face Pilate was twitching . 'And 'And himself he surely taken have something .
 You are cruel , and he cruel not was .
 Where ' you go ?
 Levi suddenly came to the table , leaned to it both hands on and , gazing with burning eyes at the procurator , whispered him : 'Know , Hegemon , 'Know , that I in Yershalaim am kill a man .
 I 'd wanted to you that tell , so you know more blood there be . '
 ' I too know , it there will , ` replied Pilate , ` your words you me n't surprised with .
 You , of course , want to kill me ? '
 ` You to kill I n't manage , replied Levi , baring and smiling , ` I not such foolish man as to on that devote . But I kill Judas of Kiriath , I devote the rest of life . '
 Here pleasure showed in eyes the procurator , and he , beckoning to come closer Matthew Levi , said :
 'You it wo yourself do n't manage to , 'You yourself n't trouble .
 Judas this night already been killed . '
 Levi sprang away from the table , wildly looking around , and cried out : 'Who 'Who it did ? '
 ` Do n't be jealous , bared answered Pilate and his hands , ` I rubbed , he had other admirers besides you besides . '
 'Who 'Who it did ? ' whisper repeated whisper Levi .
 Pilate answered him : ' it did I .
 Levi opened his and quietly stared at the procurator , who said :
 ` It is , of course , much have done , but all the same it did I . ` And he added : 'Well 'Well , and now will you take something ?
 Levi considered relented , relented and , finally said :
 'Have 'Have them me give a piece clean parchment . '
 An went hour .
 Levi not was in the palace .
 Now the dawn was broken only the quiet noise of footsteps the in the garden .
 The moon quickly was , at the other edge of sky see the whitish whitish the morning star .
 The lamps long , long ago had gone .
 The couch lay on procurator .
 Putting his hand under cheek , he slept and breathed soundlessly .
 Beside Beside him slept Banga .
 Thus was met the fifteenth of Nisan the fifth procurator of Judea Pontius Pilate .
 When Margarita came to last words of chapter - ' ... Thus was met the the fifteenth Nisan the fifth procurator of Judea Pontius Pilate ' - it was dawn morning .
 Sparrows could , in garden in the branches of and lindens conducting a merry , excited excited morning conversation .
 Margarita got up from the armchair , stretched and only then felt how broken her body and how much wanted she to sleep .
 It is interesting note that 's soul Margarita 's was in perfect order .
 thoughts Her not were scattered , she quite unshaken unshaken by she spent night supernaturally . She not was by memories of , that She been at ball 's Satan , that by some miracle master had been returned risen to her , that from ashes risen novel that everything was back in place in the basement in , from which been the expelled snitcher Aloisy Mogarych .
 In short , acquaintance with Woland had caused her no psychic psychic damage . Everything was as if so ought been .
 She went to the next room , convinced herself that that master the was soundly unnecessary and peacefully , turned off unnecessary the lamp and stretched out by opposite wall on a couch covered with an old torn sheet .
 A minute later she was asleep , and that morning she no had dreams .
 were rooms The , was silent whole the little house builder , and it quiet was in solitary lane .
 But just then , , that is at dawn dawn , not was an entire floor asleep of a certain Moscow institution , and windows its , looking on asphalt-paved big square asphalt-paved which special machines , slowly driving with droning brushes , were cleaning brushes , shone full the brightness , cutting through light the rising brightness sun .
 The whole floor was occupied with investigation of case Woland , and the lights all night had burned in dozens dozens offices .
 Essentially speaking , matter become clear already on the previous day , Friday , when had be closed the Variety owing disappearance its administration and all of outrages , which taken place the day during the notorious sance of black magic .
 But the thing was that all time and incessantly kept arriving the sleepless floor more and new material .
 Now investigators of this strange case , which of obvious devilry , with admixture some hypnotic tricks and distinct an criminality , had to all the many-sided and tangled events that taken place in various parts of Moscow , shape lump into one .
 first to The visit the sleepless , electrically lit-up floor was Arkady Apollonovich Sempleyarov , chairman Acoustics Commission .
 After dinner on Friday in apartment his , located in house by the Bridge , rang the and male voice a asked telephone for Arkady Apollonovich .
 who picked up the phone 's wife Arkady Apollonovich replied sullenly , that Arkady Apollonovich was unwell , had for , and come to the phone not could . However Arkady Arkady Apollonovich came to the phone all the same . To question of the , where was being Arkady Arkady Apollonovich , voice in the telephone very briefly said where .
 'This 'This second ... once ... this minute ... babbled very haughty wife the chairman of the Acoustics Commission and like arrow she flew to the bedroom to rouse Arkady Apollonovich from , where he lay , experiencing the torments at recollection of yesterday 's the sance and night scandal , followed by the expulsion from the apartment of Saratov his niece .
 true , Not in second , yet either not in minute , but in quarter a minute , Arkady Apollonovich with one slipper on his left foot underwear , in nothing underwear , already was at the phone , babbling into it : 'Yes 'Yes , it 's me ... I listening , 'm listening ...
 His wife His , for these moments forgetting all loathsome crimes against fidelity the in which unfortunate Arkady Apollonovich had been exposed , with frightened a face sticking herself out door the corridor , poking slipper at the air and whispering :
 'Put the slipper on , the slipper ... ... you catch At which Arkady Apollonovich , waving with his wife foot and making her savage eyes , muttered into the telephone : 'Yes 'Yes , yes , yes , surely I I understand ... ... ... once leave ' the whole evening Arkady Apollonovich spent on that same floor where the was investigation conducted .
 It conversation was difficult unpleasant , most unpleasant a conversation , for had with complete sincerity he tell not only about this obnoxious the sance and fight in the box , but - as was indeed necessary - also about Militsa Andreevna Pokobatko Yelokhovskaya from Yelokhovskaya Street , and about Saratov the niece , and about much else , of which the telling caused Arkady Apollonovich inexpressible torments .
 Needless say , the testimony Arkady Apollonovich , an intelligent cultivated and cultivated man , who witness to outrageous sance , a witness witness outrageous sensible and , who excellent gave description the mysterious masked magician himself , and two his scoundrelly assistants who perfectly remembered well that that the name magician indeed Woland , considerably advanced the investigation .
 the juxtaposition And testimony Arkady Apollonovich with testimony of others - among among whom were some ladies who had suffered after the sance ( one the in violet underwear who had shocked Rimsky , and , alas , many others ) , and the messenger Karpov , who had been sent to apartment no.50 no.50 on Sadovaya Street - at once essentially established the place where where was be sought culprit all these adventures .
 the Apartment no.50 no.50 was visited , and not just once , and not only looked it with extreme thoroughness , but also were tapped walls , the fireplace flues places and checked search flues hiding .
 However none these measures any yielded results yielded , and of visits apartment in no one discovered was , though perfectly it perfectly clear was that in the apartment there someone was , despite the fact that all persons who who in or another were supposed to be in charge of coming to Moscow foreign artistes decidedly and categorically insisted that that was any black magician magician Woland in Moscow there and be not could .
 decidedly He not decidedly registered on arrival , anyone not had shown his passport or other , papers contracts or agreements , and no one about him anything not had !
 , head the the programme department of Spectacles Commission Kitaitsev , swore that any programme performance of any a Woland vanished Styopa Likhodeev him for approval never sent and about the arrival such Woland him never telephoned .
 So that he , Kitaitsev , utterly failed see and to understand how utterly how utterly in the Styopa could allowed such a sance .
 when And told that that Arkady Apollonovich with own eyes had seen this magician at seance , Kitaitsev only spread arms and raised his eyes to heaven .
 And from 's eyes Kitaitsev could one see and confidently say confidently that that he was as crystal .
 That same Prokhor Petrovich , chairman main of Spectacles Commission ...
 Incidentally , he returned to his suit immediately after after the police came into his office , to ecstatic joy Anna Richardovna and the great perplexity the needlessly troubled police .
 Also incidentally , , having returned to his place , into his grey striped suit , Prokhor Petrovich fully approved of all the the resolutions suit had written during during his short-term absence .
 ... So , then , this same Prokhor Petrovich decidedly decidedly nothing nothing knew about any Woland .
 Whether was coming something thrice-cursed Whether you , preposterous : thousands of spectators , the whole staff Variety , and finally , Sempleyarov Arkady Apollonovich a , most educated man , had seen this magician , well as thrice-cursed his spectators assistants , and him find absolutely anywhere impossible .
 What , I ask , he fallen through , had ground right after his disgusting sance or , as affirm some , at all not he come to Moscow ?
 But if the first , then undoubtedly , falling through , he taken along entire the top administration the , and if second , then not would mean that the administration the luckless theatre , committing first some vileness ( recall only the broken the window in the study and behaviour of ! ) , had disappeared from Moscow ?
 We must do justice to the one who headed the investigation . The vanished Rimsky was found with amazing speed .
 One had only put the behaviour of the cab stand at the movie theatre with certain given times , such as , when ended the seance and when could have disappeared Rimsky , and then immediately send a telegram to Leningrad .
 later hour came the reply ( towards evening Friday ) reply that Rimsky been discovered in number four-twelve Hotel the Astoria on fourth floor , next to in which the was manager repertory of one of the Moscow theatres , then tour staying in Leningrad , that same room which , as known , gilded grey-blue furniture bathroom had and a wonderful bathroom bathroom .
 Discovered hiding in the of wardrobe number four-twelve four-twelve of the Astoria , Rimsky was there questioned in Leningrad .
 After which to Moscow came telegram a reporting that that findirector Rimsky was in an unanswerable state , that to questions he sensible replies not could or not wish to give and begged only to be hidden in a bulletproof room and provided with an armed guard .
 from Moscow telegram A ordered that Rimsky under guard be delivered to Moscow , as result which Rimsky Friday evening , departed under said guard on evening the train .
 Towards evening Friday same , was found also trail Likhodeev 's .
 to all cities were sent Telegrams of inquiry about Likhodeev , and from Yalta came reply reply that Likhodeev had been in Yalta but had left plane on a for Moscow .
 The only one whose trail they failed pick up was Varenukha .
 The known all decidedly Moscow famous theatre administrator vanished into thin air .
 In , was with things happening in other parts of Moscow , outside Theatre the Variety .
 It was necessary explain the extraordinary case of singing ` Glorious Sea ' the staff ( incidentally : Professor Stravinsky managed them to put right within two hours by means some subcutaneous injections injections ) , of persons persons presenting other persons or institutions with guise money devil knows what , and also of persons who had suffered from such presentations .
 As goes without saying , the most unpleasant scandalous insoluble , and unpleasant insoluble of all these cases was the case theft head of the the deceased writer Berlioz right from coffin in the Griboedov hall of , carried out in broad daylight .
 Twelve men conducted the investigation , gathering as on knitting-needle stitches the accursed stitches this of complicated case scattered over all Moscow .
 One of investigators arrived at 's clinic Professor Stravinsky and first asked be shown list the persons who who checked to the clinic over the past three days .
 Thus Thus they discovered Nikanor Ivanovich Bosoy and unfortunate master of the whose torn off head .
 them However , was paid little . By now easy was to establish that that these two had fallen victim to the the same gang , headed by that mysterious magician .
 But to Ivan Nikolaevich Homeless investigator paid great attention .
 The door Ivanushka 's of room no.117 no.117 opened towards evening on , and into the room came a young , round-faced , calm and mild-mannered man , quite unlike an investigator , and one of the best in Moscow .
 He saw lying a on the bed and pinched young man , eyes in whose read a lack of interest in what went on around , whose eyes somewhere into distance surroundings , over surroundings , now into the himself young man .
 investigator gently gently introduced himself and said said he had stopped at Ivan Nikolaevich 's to talk over the events at Patriarch 's Ponds .
 Oh , how triumphant would Ivan been if investigator come to him earlier - say , on night on Wednesday night , when Ivan violently and passionately had to make his story the about Patriarch 's Ponds !
 Now had come his dream of helping catch the consultant , they no need was any to run , to him come precisely , to precisely hear his story about had what happened on Wednesday evening .
 But , alas , Ivanushka completely had changed in the time that had passed since moment 's death Berlioz : he was ready willingly and politely to answer of all questions investigator , but indifference could sensed both in 's eyes Ivan and and in his intonation .
 The poet longer no was concerned 's fate Berlioz .
 Before 's arrival investigator Ivanushka lay dozing dozing , and before him passed certain visions .
 Thus , he saw city strange , incomprehensible , non-existent , with marble , eroded colonnades roofs , gleaming the sun roofs gleaming , with black gloomy and gloomy merciless Tower Antonia , with the palace on western hill , sunk blazing to rooftops almost in the tropical greenery garden , with armour-clad , blazing in the sunset bronze statues above this greenery and he saw armour-clad along under the walls the ancient city Roman centuries sunk moving in .
 , dozed before Ivan appeared a motionless in an armchair man , , clean-shaven , with a harried yellow face , man in white mantle lining with red lining , hatefully gazing into luxurious and the alien garden .
 saw Ivan a treeless yellow hill with cross-barred empty posts .
 And what happened at the Patriarch 's Ponds poet Ivan Homeless longer no interested the .
 ' Tell me , Ivan Nikolaevich , you yourself how far were from turnstile when Berlioz slipped under tram-car ?
 A barely noticeable indifferent smile for some reason touched 's lips Ivan , and he replied :
 ' I was far away . ' 'And 'And the checkered one was right by the turnstile ? '
 'No 'No , he was sitting on a nearby . '
 ` You clearly recall that that he not did go to the turnstile at the moment when when Berlioz fell ? '
 ' recall .
 n't He it .
 He sprawled sat . '
 These questions were the last investigator .
 After them he got up , gave hand Ivanushka , wished him and expressed the hope that he again would be reading his poetry .
 'No 'No , ' quietly replied Ivan , I more poetry write n't . '
 The investigator smiled politely smiled , allowed himself to express his certainty , that the poet was in state a some depression , soon it would pass .
 'No 'No , ' responded the Ivan , looking not at investigator but into the distance , at the fading sky , 'it 'it never will pass .
 The poems poems I write were were bad poems , and I now it understand . '
 The investigator left Ivanushka , having obtained quite some important material .
 Following the thread events from the end to the beginning , finally succeeded in reaching the source from which had come all events .
 The investigator no had doubt that these events began with the murder at the Patriarch 's .
 Of course , neither Ivanushka nor nor this Ivanushka checkered one had pushed under tram-car unfortunate chairman of Massolit ; ; physically , so to speak , his failing under the wheels no had contributed to no one . But investigator was convinced that that Berlioz thrown himself under the tram-car ( or tumbled under it ) had while hypnotized .
 Yes , there material was already lot , and it was known already who and where be caught .
 But the thing in was that to catch no possible proved .
 in the thrice-cursed thrice-cursed apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 undoubtedly , We there , someone was .
 Occasionally Occasionally the apartment answered now rattling , now nasal voice telephone calls , occasionally was windows , more , from it came sounds of gramophone .
 And yet each time it was , decidedly no one found there no was .
 And been visited already more once and and at different of times day . And only that , they with a net , checking every it corner .
 The apartment had long been under suspicion . Guards were not just the way to courtyard through the courtyard gates , but well entrance . only that , on roof chimneys by the chimneys were placed guards .
 Yes , apartment no.50 no.50 was acting , and to do about it anything it impossible was .
 So thing dragged until midnight on Friday , when Baron Meigel , dressed in evening clothes shoes and patent-leather shoes , solemnly proceeded into apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 in a of guest .
 hear the baron in to the apartment . Exactly Exactly ten minutes later , without any of ringing bells , the apartment was visited , yet not only the hosts in it not were found , but , which was quite bizarre bizarre , no were found in it signs of Baron Meigel .
 And so , as was was said , thing dragged this fashion until dawn .
 Here were added new and very interesting data .
 at the Moscow airport landed A six-place passenger plane , coming from Crimea . Among the other passengers out it , got one strange passenger . This was young citizen , wildly overgrown stubble , days three no unwashed , with inflamed and frightened eyes slippers , carrying luggage and dressed somewhat whimsically . The citizen was wearing sheepskin , a cape over nightshirt and blue leather leather slippers new , , just-purchased just-purchased slippers . As soon as he separated from ladder by which descended from the plane , he they was .
 This citizen had been , and in a little while the unforgettable director of Variety , Stepan Bogdanovich Likhodeev , was standing before investigators .
 He threw some new data . now became clear that that Woland penetrated the Variety in of an artiste , penetrated having hypnotized Styopa Likhodeev , and had then contrived to fling this same Styopa out of Moscow and God knows away how many miles .
 The material was thus thus augmented , yet things that not easier , but a perhaps even bit harder , because it was obvious that to such person a who perform had stunts as one the the victim which been Stepan Bogdanovich be would not so easy .
 Incidentally Incidentally , Likhodeev , at his own his request , was confined in a cell , and next before investigators stood Likhodeev Varenukha , just arrested in his own apartment , to which he returned after a blank disappearance of almost two days .
 Despite the Azazello promise to more not lie , the administrator began precisely with a lie .
 Though , Though the , for it very harshly he judged can not . Azazello had forbidden him lie and be rude on the telephone , but in the present case the administrator spoke without the assistance of this apparatus .
 His wandering eyes , Ivan Savelyevich declared that that Thursday afternoon on he he himself in his office at Variety got drunk , after which went , but not did remember , where drank starka , but where not did remember , lay under a fence , but where not he did remember again .
 Only after the administrator was told that he his behaviour , stupid and senseless , hindering the investigation of an important case and for it of course would have answer , Varenukha burst into and whisper trembling sobs voice , , that he lied solely out of fear , apprehensive of of Woland 's gang , into hands whose he already had fallen , and that he begged , implored , yearned be locked in a bullet-proof cell .
 'Pah 'Pah , the devil ! ! Really them their bulletproof cells grumbled one of investigators investigators .
 ` They badly frightened by those scoundrels , ` said the investigator who had visited Ivanushka .
 Varenukha They calmed the they could , said they protect him without any cell fence , and here it was learned that any starka he under a fence not drunk , and that been he two , one red-haired and red-haired the other fang fat ...
 'Ah 'Ah , resembling a cat ? '
 'Yes 'Yes , yes , whispered , sinking with fear and every second looking him , the administrator coming out with further details of how he existed for some two days in apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 in a tip-off vampire , all but who caused the death the findirector Rimsky ...
 Just then Rimsky , brought being led the Leningrad train .
 However this disturbed with fear , mentally grey-haired trembling old man , in whom very it difficult was recognize the former findirector , for anything not would tell the truth and proved in this respect very stubborn . Rimsky insisted that that any Hella in his in office window at night he not had seen , nor any Varenukha , but simply felt bad and in unconsciousness he left for Leningrad .
 Needless to say , his testimony ailing the findirector concluded a request that confined he to a bulletproof cell .
 Annushka was was arrested just as she made an attempt to hand cashier a department store on the Arbat a ten-dollar bill .
 's story Annushka about people flying out window of house on Sadovaya and about the little horseshoe which which Annushka , in her own words , had picked up in order to present it the police , was listened attentively .
 The Annushka really was made gold and horseshoe diamonds ? was asked Annushka .
 'As I if diamonds n't do know , ' replied Annushka .
 'But 'But gave ten-rouble he you ten-rouble bills , , you say ? '
 'As I if ten-rouble bills n't know , ' replied Annushka .
 'Well 'Well , and when did they into dollars turn ? '
 ' I n't do know about any dollars , never saw I any dollars . shrilly 'm replied Annushka I in my rights !
 I got recompensed , I cloth buying cloth ' and went into some balderdash about , she not being answerable for house management , that allowed making the fifth floor unclean unbearable powers life .
 Here investigator waved at Annushka with pen , because because her properly everyone was sick , and wrote her a pass on a green slip paper , after which , to everyone 's pleasure , Annushka disappeared the from building .
 Then there followed a whole series people , among them Nikolai Ivanovich , just arrested solely the foolishness jealous his foolishness jealous wife , who informed the police towards morning had that her husband vanished .
 Nikolai Ivanovich not very did investigators when laid on the table the clownish investigators clownish certificate of having he his spent the time at ball . In his stories , how he had carried through back the air on his naked 's housekeeper Margarita Nikolaevna and for in river swim and of preceding the appearance of in window the bare Margarita Nikolaevna , Nikolai Ivanovich somewhat departed from the truth .
 Thus , for instance , he not did it necessary consider mention , that he he had arrived in the bedroom with discarded the shift in hands or that called Natasha 'Venus ' .
 From his words it looked as if Natasha had flown out the window , got astride him him and dragged from Moscow ...
 'Obedient 'Obedient to constraint , compelled was to submit , compelled said Nikolai Ivanovich and finished his a request that word not be told of it his to wife .
 Which Which was him promised . The testimony Nikolai Ivanovich provided an opportunity for establishing that that Margarita Nikolaevna well as as her housekeeper Natasha had vanished without a trace .
 were taken Measures to to them Measures find .
 Thus unrelenting unrelenting second by investigation was marked Saturday morning .
 In the city during that time , emerged and floated completely impossible rumours , in which tiny luxuriant portion truth lies was embellished the most luxuriant .
 It was said that been seance at the Variety Sadovaya after which all two thousand spectators ran out to the street in birthday , their nabbed a press counterfeit suits money magic sort on Sadovaya Street , that some gang kidnapped kidnapped five managers from the sector entertainment , but that the police them immediately all had found , and many other things even one to repeat not does wish .
 Meanwhile Meanwhile it was getting towards dinner time , and then the place , where was being conducted investigation , the telephone rang .
 From Sadovaya came report that the accursed apartment was again showing signs of life .
 It was said that its been opened windows from inside , that were coming from it sounds of piano and singing and that in window been seen sitting on the sill and basking in the sun black cat .
 At around four o'clock on that hot day a big company of men in clothes civilian , got of out three cars a from no.502-bis no.502-bis on Sadovaya Street .
 Here the big group divided into two small ones , the first going across gateway house and courtyard directly to sixth , while the second opened the normally boarded-up door leading to , and both started up separate stairways to apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 .
 Just then Koroviev and Azazello - Koroviev in usual his outfit tailcoat and and not the festive - were sitting in the dining room apartment finishing breakfast .
 Woland , as his , was in the bedroom , and where was wont cat nobody knew .
 But judging by clatter dishes coming from the kitchen , could it supposed that Behemoth was precisely there , playing fool wont , as his the . 'And 'And what those footsteps are on the ? ' asked Koroviev , toying the in spoon cup with black spoon coffee .
 ` That them to arrest us , ` replied Azazello and drank a glass cognac .
 'Ahh 'Ahh , ... well well ' replied to that Koroviev .
 The ones up front stairway already were on stairway the third-floor third-floor landing . There couple a of plumbers steam were pottering over the harmonica the heating heating .
 The newcomers exchanged with plumbers significant glances .
 'They 'They home , ' whispered one of plumbers pipe , tapping a with hammer .
 Then the walking at the openly took from under head his black Mauser , and another beside beside him took the keys .
 Generally , those going to apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 were properly equipped .
 Two of them in nets pockets had fine , easily unfolded unfolded silk nets . lasso , another Another had gauze masks gauze masks and ampoules of chloroform .
 In a second was open door to apartment hall no.50 no.50 , and all the visitors were in front , while the slamming at same moment in the kitchen door indicated the second group from timely arrival .
 This time , if not complete , at least some of there success was .
 through all the rooms dining instantly dispersed men and anywhere one anywhere no dispersed found , but instead on the table room they discovered the remains of apparently just-abandoned just-abandoned an breakfast , and in the living room on mantelpiece , , beside beside a crystal pitcher , sat enormous black cat . He was holding in his paws a primus .
 in total Those entered the living room contemplated this cat for quite a long time .
 'Hm 'Hm , ... that 's quite something whispered one of the men .
 'Ai n't bothering , ai anybody n't misbehaving , reparating anybody primus , ` unfriendly reparating scowl reparating cat , ` and also I consider to warn that the cat is an ancient and inviolable animal .
 'Exceptionally 'Exceptionally neat job , whispered one of the men , and another said loudly and distinctly :
 `` Well , inviolable ventriloquous inviolable ventriloquous cat , come , in '
 The unfolded and soared net , but the cast it , to utter 's astonishment everyone , missed smashed and caught only man the , which straight ringingly away smashed ringingly .
 'You lose bawled cat . 'Hurrah 'Hurrah ! ' and here he , setting aside the primus , snatched from behind his back a Browning .
 he trice aimed it at the closest man standing , but In before the cat had time shoot , in hand blazed fire , and at the blast the Mauser the cat plopped head the from mantelpiece mantelpiece to floor , dropping the Browning and letting the primus .
 'It 'It all over , the weak languidly voice said cat languidly sprawled in a pool , 'step back from me for a second , let me say farewell to the earth .
 Oh my friend Azazello , moaned the cat , bleeding profusely , 'where 'where are you ? cat rolled fading his eyes in direction of dining-room dining-room the .
 You abandoned unequal poor battle Behemoth , exchanging him for a glass cognac ` , very good ` cognac !
 Well , so , let my death be on your conscience , and I bequeath you you my Browning ...
 The , net , net anxiously was whispered around the cat . But net , devil knows why , got caught someone 's in 's pocket and refused come out .
 The only thing , that can save mortally a wounded cat , the cat , 'is 'is a benzene . ' And taking advantage of the , he bent to the round opening in the and had a benzene .
 once The blood from under left front leg stopped flowing . cat jumped alive and cheerful , seized shot the the under paw mantelpiece , climbed with it back to mantelpiece wallpaper , and from there , shredding the wallpaper , climbed the wall and some two seconds later was high above the and sitting on a metal curtain rod .
 - Hands instantly clutched the curtain and tore it together with the , sunlight to the shaded curtain room .
 But neither fraudulently the recovered cat nor nor the primus fell down .
 cat , without parting with his , managed to shoot through the air of and land the on the chandelier hanging in middle the room .
 ' A stepladder ! ' came from below .
 ' I challenge you to a duel ! ' bawled the cat , sailing over heads the on swinging chandelier , and again in paw his was , and the was lodged among the branches of chandelier .
 cat took aim and , flying like pendulum over the heads the , opened on them fire .
 The din shook the apartment .
 the poured Crystal mantelpiece shivers mantelpiece from chandelier , cracked stars over chandelier , bounced cartridges benzene , bounced shattered cartridges bullet-pierced , window-panes the floor from bullet-pierced spouted benzene . Now no was there question of , taking the cat alive , and the fiercely and accurately aiming his from Mausers at head , chest , stomach and back . The shooting caused panic on asphalt the courtyard .
 But last this shooting not long and itself began to die .
 The thing was that either the cat or visitors it no caused no harm .
 Everyone no was Not only killed , but even wounded . Everyone , , including including the cat , remained totally unharmed .
 One of the visitors , to it definitively verify definitively , sent some bullets five at head the confounded animal , , while the cat smartly responded with a full clip but the same effect anybody on anybody it no was produced .
 cat swayed the chandelier , which swung less , blowing for into muzzle his Browning and spitting his on paw .
 The those standing below faces acquired an expression utter bewilderment .
 This was only , or one of the only , case , when shooting proved entirely inefficacious .
 One might , of course , allow that that the 's cat was some toy , but Mausers the means one no could say .
 first wound The - obviously obviously not be the slightest slightest doubt - was nothing but a , and swinish sham , was as the swinish drinking the benzene .
 was made more One attempt to get of the cat .
 was thrown lasso , it caught on one of the candles , the chandelier fell down .
 The crash shake the whole structure house , but it no was use .
 Those present were splinters , and the cat flew through the air and settled high the under mantelpiece on upper part of gilded frame 's mirror .
 He anywhere no had intention escaping but even , on the contrary , while sitting in relative safety , started another another speech ,
 ` I fail to comprehend , held forth he on high , ` reasons such harsh treatment of me ... '
 And here this speech at very beginning was interrupted knew where a heavy , low voice :
 `` What going on in the apartment ?
 me They prevent from working ... '
 Another , unpleasant and nasal voice , responded : 'Well 'Well 's , of course , Behemoth , devil him ! '
 A third , rattling , voice said : 'Messire 'Messire ! It Saturday .
 The sun is setting .
 Time to go . '
 'Excuse 'Excuse me , n't I more talk any , said cat from the mirror , 'time 'time go . '
 He hurled his Browning and knocked out both panes in the window .
 Then he splashed down benzene , and this benzene itself by caught fire , throwing a flame to very the ceiling .
 Things caught fire somehow unusually quickly and violently , as not does happen even with benzene .
 at The wallpaper , the curtain on floor and began smoulder the frames the broken windows .
 cat crouched , miaowed , crouched shot from the mirror the to window-sill and disappeared through it together with his primus .
 outside rang out Shots .
 man A sitting on iron the fire-escape fire-escape jeweller at level jeweller 's windows fired at the cat as he flew from the window-sill to window-sill , making the corner drainpipe house which was built , as been has said , a .
 By this pipe the cat climbed to the roof .
 There he , without unfortunately any , also unfortunately was shot the sentries guarding the chimneys , and the cat cleared off into the setting sun that flooding the city .
 in the apartment the that then blazed parquet under feet the , and in fire , on same spot the where sprawled with his sham , there appeared , and more more dense , the corpse former the Baron Meigel with upthrust and glassy chin eyes .
 To get him longer no was possible .
 Leaping over burning the squares parquet , slapping smoking chests shoulders and shoulders , those who in the room retreated to living hall and front .
 Those who who were in dining room and bedroom ran out through the corridor . also Those in kitchen hall and rushed into front .
 The living room already was filled with fire and smoke .
 Someone in flight managed to dial dial the number of the fire department and shout briefly shout into the receiver : 'Sadovaya 'Sadovaya , three-oh-two-bis three-oh-two-bis !
 To stay longer was impossible .
 Flames gushed out into front hall .
 Breathing became difficult .
 As soon through the broken windows enchanted of the apartment courtyard pushed first spurts of smoke , in courtyard arose desperate human the cries :
 'Fire 'Fire ! Fire ! burning !
 In various apartments of the house people began shouting into telephones :
 'Sadovaya 'Sadovaya !
 Sadovaya , three-oh-two-bis three-oh-two-bis ! '
 Just then , as on Sadovaya were heard heart-quailing the ringing racing from quickly from all parts of city red long engines , rushing about the yard people saw how along with the smoke out window the fifth-storey fifth-storey there flew three dark , , male silhouettes and one silhouette a naked woman .
 were Whether these silhouettes there or were only fear-struck ill-fated by fear-struck tenants the ill-fated house on Sadovaya , of course , precisely to say is impossible .
 If they were , where they there set out , also is known no one . where they separated we also Nor can say , but we do know that that approximately a of an hour after started the fire on Sadovaya , there mirrored doors of store on Smolensky currency the market-place appeared a long citizen in a checkered suit and with him black big cat .
 Deftly slithering between the passers-by , the citizen opened the door of the shop .
 But here a small bony , bony and extremely ill-disposed doorman barred his way and irritably said :
 'No 'No cats 'No allowed ! '
 ' I beg your , ' rattled long one gnarled putting his gnarled hand to ear , as he hard 'no cats , you say ?
 And where do you see any cats ? '
 The doorman goggled his eyes , and well : there no cat at feet shoulder the citizen now was , but from behind his instead stuck out stuck into store a fat in tattered cap mug , indeed , somewhat straining 's the cat .
 in hands the fat fellow was a primus .
 The this pair of doorman customers for some reason disliked misanthropic .
 ` We We only accept currency , ` croaked he , vexedly gazing from under shaggy grizzled , as if moth-eaten moth-eaten grizzled , grizzled eyebrows .
 ` My dear , ' rattled the long one , flashing his eye through the broken pince-nez , 'how 'how you know , I have any ?
 you judging by my clothes ?
 Never Never do so , most precious custodian ! You may make mistake , and that a big .
 At read story the famous caliph Harun al-Rashid .
 But in the case , casting that story temporarily aside , I want going tell complaint you that I make complaint to you the and tell him about you such tales that have you surrender your post between the shining mirrored doors . '
 'Maybe I , 'Maybe a full primus currency , vehemently butted into conversation cat-like fat fellow , shoving into store .
 Behind them already pushing and was the public .
 with hatred and suspicion Looking at prodigious pair , the doorman stepped aside , and our acquaintances , Koroviev and Behemoth , found themselves in the store .
 Here they first all looked around , and then ringing in voice , ringing decidedly in every corner , Koroviev announced : ' A wonderful store !
 A very , very fine store ! ' The public from the counters turned away and for some in amazement looked at the speaker , though praising store for had all grounds .
 Hundreds of bolts of cotton richest assortment colours could be seen in the pigeonholes . Next to them were piled chiffons flannels and calicoes chiffons and flannels flannels suits .
 In receding could endless shoeboxes with shoeboxes , and several citizenesses sat on little low stacks shoeboxes chairs , one foot shod in an old , worn-out preoccupied shoe , the other in new shiny pump , which they stamped preoccupied a carpet .
 Somewhere in depths corner around the sang and played gramophones .
 But , bypassing all these enchantments , Koroviev and Behemoth made straight the junction of grocery and confectionery departments .
 Here was plenty of room , cidzenesses in scarves and berets no were pushing against the counters , as in the fabric department .
 A short , perfectly square man blue shaven horn-rimmed jowls glasses , a brand-new hat crumpled , not crumpled and with no sweat stains on the , in a lilac and jowls orange kid gloves , stood by the brand-new something grunting peremptorily grunting .
 sales clerk in a clean white smock and blue hat was waiting the lilac client .
 With the sharpest knives , much like knife the stolen Matthew Levi , he was removing from a weeping pink salmon its snake-like snake-like , silvery skin .
 ` is This department splendid , solemnly acknowledged Koroviev , 'and the foreigner a likeable , ` he benevolently pointed his finger at the lilac back .
 'No 'No , Fagott , no , ` pensively replied Behemoth , ` you , friend mistaken : the face lilac gendeman 're something lacks , my in my opinion .
 The back twitched , but by probably surely chance , for unable was foreigner understand what were saying in Russian Koroviev and his companion .
 'Is good ? ' sternly the lilac purchaser .
 Top-notch replied the sales clerk , cockily slipping the edge knife under the .
 'Good 'Good I like do , bad sternly n't , sternly the foreigner .
 'Right 'Right are ! the rapturously replied sales clerk .
 Here our acquaintances walked away from foreigner and his salmon to end the confectionery counter .
 'It 'It 's today , ' addressed Koroviev a young , red-cheeked salesgirl and no received his reply to words . 'How 'How much mandarins ? ' inquired then of Koroviev her Koroviev .
 'Fifteen 'Fifteen kopecks pound , replied the salesgirl .
 'Everything 'Everything 's pricey , sigh ' observed Koroviev , 'hm hm ... 'hm hm ... ' He little then thought and invited his companion : 'Eat 'Eat , Behemoth .
 The fellow put his his primus under arm , , laid gobbled the top mandarin the pyramid and straight away skin gobbled it began on second .
 The salesgirl was with mortal terror .
 'You 'You out your mind ! shouted she , losing her colour receipt . 'Give 'Give receipt me the receipt !
 The receipt ! ' and she dropped confectionery the confectionery tongs .
 'My 'My darling , darling dearest , dearest beauty , rasped Koroviev , leaning winking over the counter and winking at salesgirl , 'we out of currency 'we today ... ... what we do ?
 But I swear you , by next time , and no later than Monday , we pay it all pure cash !
 We 're from near by , on Sadovaya , where the fire ...
 Behemoth , after swallowing third mandarin , put paw into clever construction of chocolate bars , pulled out one the bottom , which of course whole made collapse , and swallowed it together with gold wrapper .
 The sales clerks behind the as petrified their their knives in hands , the lilac foreigner swung around to robbers , and here it turned out that Behemoth was mistaken : the lilac one there was lacking nothing lacking 's in face , but , on the contrary , rather some superfluity hanging jowls and furtive eyes .
 Turning completely Turning , the salesgirl anxiously cried for whole store :
 'Palosich 'Palosich !
 Palosich ! '
 The public from the fabric department came thronging at this cry , while Behemoth stepping away from confectionery temptations , thrust paw into barrel a labelled labelled 'Choice Kerch 'Choice Kerch Herring ' , pulled a couple of herring and swallowed them , spitting the tails .
 'Palosich 'Palosich ! ' the came desperate cry behind the confectionery , and from behind fish the barked counter sales clerk with goatee : 'What you 'What 's this 're to , vermin ? '
 Pavel Yosifovich already was to scene action .
 He was imposing an man in a white clean smock , like a surgeon , with a pencil sticking out pocket .
 Pavel Yosifovich obviously obviously was an experienced man . Seeing the mouth in Behemoth 's the tail third herring , he instantly assessed situation , everything instantly decidedly understood and , without getting into any the arguments insolent with insolent louts , waved into the his arm , commanding : 'Whistle 'Whistle !
 The the corner Smolensky from mirrored whisding door flew doorman and dissolved in sinister whisding .
 The public began surround blackguards , and then into affair stepped Koroviev .
 'Citizens 'Citizens ! ' vibrating high vibrating voice called out he , 'what 'what here going on ?
 Eh ?
 Allow me you that to ask !
 The poor man ' - Koroviev let some tremor into his voice and pointed to Behemoth , immediately concocted a woeful physiognomy - 'the poor man spends all day spends reparating reparating primuses . He got hungry ... and where 's he to get currency ?
 Pavel Yosifovich , usually restrained and calm , shouted To this sternly :
 'You 'You that stop ! ' and waved into the distance , impatiently .
 Then the trills by the door resounded merrily .
 But Koroviev , unabashed unabashed by pronouncement Pavel Yosifovich , went on :
 'Where 'Where ?
 He languishing hunger and thirst ! , - 's hot hapless . So the took sampled and a fellow mandarin .
 And the worth of that mandarin three kopecks . And here they go like nightingales spring in woods , whistling bothering the police , tearing away them from business .
 But he allowed .
 ` ` Who he is ?
 Eh ?
 Where did he come from ?
 And why ?
 n't widiout we do Could widiout him ?
 invite we him , what Did ?
 Of course , ' sarcastically bawled , at his mouth the ex-choirmaster , 'just him , look , in smart lilac suit , with lilac all swollen , his all stuffed salmon currency - and us , ? ! ... I ! Bitter bitter ! ! wailed 'Koroviev , like the man at old-fashioned an wedding . This whole stupid , stupid tacdess and probably , politically harmful wrath speech bawled made shake with Pavel Yosifovich , but , as it may strange seem , by the eyes of crowding public one see could in great many people it provoked sympathy .
 And when Behemom , putting a torn dirty dirty sleeve to his eyes , exclaimed tragically :
 ` Thank you my , faithful friend , stood up for sufferer ! ` occurred miracle .
 A most decent quiet little old man , dressed poorly , but cleanly , little old man buying three macaroons macaroons in the confectionery department , was transformed .
 eyes His flashed bellicose with fire , he bellicose turned , hurled the macaroons with macaroons on the and shouted 'True ' 'True ! in child 's high voice . Then he snatched a tray , dirowing from it the remains of demolished by Behemoth the Tower , brandished it , left his hand tore the foreigner 's hat , right swung struck foreigner tray flat his bald head tray .
 There was roll a noise the one hears when from a truck are thrown down sheets of metal .
 The man , white , fell backwards and sat in barrel of Kerch herring , spouting from it fountain a herring brine .
 Straight away occurred a second miracle . The lilac one , having fallen the into barrel , in pure Russian Russian , with no trace of any accent , shouted : 'Murder 'Murder !
 Police !
 The bandits are murdering ! ' evidently , owing mastered the shock , having hitherto owing this hitherto hitherto unknown him language .
 Then ceased whistling doorman , and the the crowds whistling agitated shoppers glimpsed approaching two military helmets .
 But the perfidious Behemoth as in douses benzene , doused douses blazed from confectionery a bench benzene with , and it blazed of itself .
 The flame spurted upwards and ran along the , devouring the beautiful paper ribbons ribbons on the baskets fruit .
 The salesgirls dashed shrieking from , and soon they came blazed behind from behind them , blazed the linen curtains on counters windows and the floor ignited benzene .
 The public , once raising a desperate cry , shrank from the confectionery , running down the no needed Pavel Yosifovich , and from behind with their whetted trotted knives in the knives the trotted towards the door of counter exit sales clerks .
 The lilac citizen , extracted from the barrel , drenched with herring juice , heaved himself over salmon on the and followed after them .
 The clattered and clattered spilled glass the mirrored front doors , pushed fleeing fleeing people , while two blackguards , Koroviev , and the glutton Behemoth somewhere - got , but where it impossible was grasp .
 Only afterwards eyewitnesses who been present at starting of the fire in currency store in Smolensky tell how supposedly two hooligans flew up to ceiling and there hooligans popped the like 's children 's balloons .
 It , of course , doubtful , that things happened that way , but what n't we do know , we n't do know .
 But we do know that exactly one minute after the happening in Smolensky , Behemoth and Koroviev both turned on sidewalk of the boulevard just the house Griboedov aunt .
 Koroviev stood by the fence and spoke : 'Hah 'Hah ! is This writers ' house !
 You know , Behemoth , I heard many good flattering and flattering things about this house .
 Pay attention , my friend to this house .
 It 's pleasant think how under this this roof being sheltered and nurtured nurtured end talents nurtured . '
 'Like 'Like pineapples in greenhouse he said Behemoth and , the to admire the cream-coloured building with columns , climbed the concrete cast-iron footing cast-iron the fence .
 ` Perfectly correct , ` agreed with his inseparable companion Koroviev , 'and 'and a awe creeps into one 's heart the at thought that in this house now is ripening the future author a Don Quixote , or a Quixote Faust , or , devil me take , a Dead Souls .
 Eh ?
 'Frightful 'Frightful to think , agreed Behemoth .
 'Yes 'Yes , ' went Koroviev , 'one astonishing things can expect the hotbeds this house , which has united under its roof several thousand zealots resolved to devote their lives to the service Melpomene Polyhymnia , Polyhymnia and Thalia .
 You can imagine the that arise noise , when one of them for starters offers reading the public The Inspector General or , , if worse to worst , Evgeny Onegin . 'Quite 'Quite 'Quite easily , ' again agreed Behemoth .
 'Yes 'Yes , went Koroviev , anxiously raising his finger , ... 'but !
 But , say I and I repeat this ... but ... if by these tender hothouse plants not are attacked some microorganism that gnaws their at roots , that they rot gnaws !
 And it does happen with pineapples !
 Oh , my , does it ! '
 'Incidentally 'Incidentally , ' inquired Behemoth , putting his round head through opening in the fence , 'what 'what are they doing on the veranda ? '
 'Having 'Having , explained Koroviev , add to that 'and I my , that here is inexpensive and not the restaurant .
 And I , by way , like any tourist before the continuing his trip , feel a desire to have and drink a big ice-cold mug of beer . '
 'Me , 'Me too , ' replied Behemoth , and the two blackguards marched down asphalt unsuspecting path under lindens straight to unsuspecting unsuspecting the restaurant .
 A pale and bored citizeness in white socks and white beret with a nib sat on Viennese the chair at entrance to veranda , the , where the greenery trellis ledger had been made corner the entrance . In front her on a simple kitchen table lay a fat of ledger variety book , in which citizeness , unknown for reasons , the wrote down those entered the restaurant .
 this precisely citizeness who stopped Koroviev and Behemoth .
 'Your 'Your 's identification cards ? ' She in amazement gazing at pince-nez Koroviev , and also also 's pince-nez Behemoth 's , and at 's Behemoth 's torn elbow .
 ` A thousand pardons cards , what pardons identification ? ' asked Koroviev in surprise .
 'You 'You 're writers ? ' in her turn the asked cidzeness .
 'Unquestionably 'Unquestionably , ' with dignity answered Koroviev .
 `` Your identification cards ? `` the repeated citizeness .
 'My sweetie 'My sweetie ... began Koroviev tenderly Koroviev .
 ' I no sweetie , interrupted the citizeness .
 'More 'More , 's the pity disappointedly said Koroviev and went on ; 'Well 'Well , so , if you do n't want be a sweetie , which would be quite pleasant , you have n't be .
 So then , , to convince yourself that Dostoevsky was writer , do to ask for his identification card ?
 Just take any five pages from any one of his novels and without any identification card you be convinced , that you 're dealing with a writer .
 And I do think he identification card any n't had ! What you do think ? ' turned Koroviev to Behemoth .
 ' I Behemoth bet he n't did , replied Behemoth , setting the sweat on the table beside and wiping forehead hand sooty ledger .
 'You 'You 're not Dostoevsky , said the citizeness , muddled getting muddled by Koroviev . 'Well 'Well , who knows , who knows , replied he .
 ` Dostoevsky dead , ` said citizeness , but somehow not very confidently .
 ' I protest ! hotly exclaimed Behemoth .
 'Dostoevsky 'Dostoevsky is immortal ! '
 'Your 'Your identification cards , citizens , said citizeness .
 'Good 'Good gracious , this is be gracious ridiculous not would give Koroviev . not by is defined writer , but by , what he writes ! .
 How do you know what what plots swarming are swarming in my in head ?
 Or in this head ? ' and he pointed at head Behemoth 's , from which the at once 's removed the cap , as if to to let citizeness examine it .
 'Step 'Step aside , citizens , now nervously , said she .
 Koroviev and Behemoth stepped aside and let some writer in a summer tie-less white shirt , the collar which wide lay open on lapels the , and with a newspaper under his arm .
 The writer affably nodded citizeness , in passing put in proffered some nourish nourish ledger and proceeded to the the ledger veranda .
 'Alas 'Alas , not to us , not to us , ' sadly began Koroviev , 'but 'but him will go that ice-cold mug of beer , to which you I , poor wanderers , so dreamed of . position Our woeful and difficult , and I n't is do know to what do .
 Behemoth only bitterly spread his arms and put cap on round head , covered with thick hair , very resembling resembling a cat 's fur .
 And at that moment a low but but peremptory voice sounded over the head citizeness :
 'Let them pass , Sofya Pavlovna . '
 The citizeness with ledger was amazed . of greenery trellis appeared the white tailcoated chest beard and wedge-shaped the freebooter .
 He affably was looking at two dubious ragamuffins and , even moreover moreover , making them inviting gestures .
 's authority Archibald 's Archibaldovich Pavlovna was seriously felt in the restaurant under his management , and Sofya Pavlovna obediently asked Koroviev : 'What 'What is your name ? '
 'Panaev 'Panaev , '' courteously answered he .
 The citizeness wrote down this name and raised a questioning glance to Behemoth .
 'Skabichevsky 'Skabichevsky , 'the squeaked , for some reason pointing to his primus .
 Sofya Pavlovna wrote the this and pushed towards book the visitors , for them to sign .
 Koroviev next 'Panaev wrote 'Skabichevsky 'Panaev 'Skabichevsky ' ' , and Behemoth next Panaev 'Skabichevsky wrote 'Skabichevsky Panaev 'Skabichevsky ' .
 Archibald Archibaldovich Pavlovna , to Sofya Pavlovna Pavlovna seductively , smiled led the guests to best table at the opposite of end the veranda , the , where lay the deepest deepest shade , table next which the merrily played sun in one of gaps trellis greenery , Sofya Pavlovna , blinking with amazement , long studied the strange entry made a by unexpected visitors in the book .
 the waiters Archibald Archibaldovich Pavlovna surprised no less than Sofya Pavlovna .
 He personally drew back chair the from table , inviting Koroviev sit down , winked whispered one something whispered other , and two the waiters began bustling around new waiters guests , of whom one his primus set down next to his scuffed shoe on floor . The immediately disappeared from the table old tablecloth with yellow-stained starch , the air , crackling starch , white as Bedouin 's burnous , another , and Archibald Archibaldovich Koroviev already whispering softly but very significantly , bending right to ear Koroviev :
 What I you treat to ?
 balyk I have special little ... at the architects congress bagged ... '
 'Oh ... give us a something ... ... good-naturedly mumbled Koroviev , sprawling on the chair .
 ` I understand ` closing his eyes , meaningfully replied Archibald Archibaldovich .
 Seeing the way treated the rather dubious visitors the chief the restaurant , the waiters laid aside their suspicions and got to business seriously .
 One already offering a butt to Behemoth , from pocket a and put it in , the other raced clinking with green glass and at their places clinking , goblets tumblers and those thin-walled tumblers glasses , from which so nice is drink seltzer under awning ... no , skipping the ahead , us say used drink seltzer under awning unforgettable Griboedov the veranda .
 ` fillet of hazel-grouse might recommend fillet , ` musically murmured Archibald Archibaldovich .
 The guest in cracked pince-nez fully approved the suggestions commander brig and benevolently gazed at him through the useless glass .
 The at the next table writer Petrakov-Sukhovey with his wife , dining who finishing a pork pork chop , with the keenness all to writers observation the noticed wooing Archibald Archibaldovich and quite was surprised .
 And wife his , very respectable lady , simply even became jealous rapped pirate ice of Koroviev the and even rapped ... why are , we ... It the was served .
 What 's matter ?
 However , after sending Petrakov a seductive smile , Mrs Archibald Archibaldovich dispatched to her a waiter , but himself did not leave his dear guests .
 Ah how , intelligent was Archibald Archibaldovich ! And observation keen perhaps no less than of the writers themselves !
 Archibald Archibaldovich knew about the seance at Variety , and about many other events of those days ; he heard , but , unlike others , his not closed the word 'checkered 'checkered ' and the word 'cat 'cat ' .
 Archibald Archibaldovich naturally guessed once who his visitors were . And having guessed , at , quarrelling with them not did .
 And that Sofya Pavlovna was good one !
 To thing come barring those two way the to veranda !
 Though ! her what of expect ...
 Haughtily poking her little spoon into the slushy slushy cream , Petrakov displeased eyes watched , the front two buffoons motley buffoons as if by magic become overgrown with dainties .
 Shiny lettuce leaves already sticking from caviar of ... , a appeared on separate little sweating silver bucket table ...
 Only convinced that that everything been done impeccably , only when when in hands impeccably the waiter 's came flying a covered pan with in it something gurgling , Archibald Archibaldovich Archibaldovich allow himself leave the two mysterious visitors , and that first whispered them : 'Excuse 'Excuse me ! One 'Excuse moment !
 the fillets !
 He flew away from the table and disappeared into an inner passage the restaurant .
 If If any observer able to follow the further actions of Archibald Archibaldovich , they undoubtedly undoubtedly have seemed would him somewhat mysterious .
 The chief went go not to the kitchen to supervise the fillets , but to the restaurant pantry .
 He opened it his own key , locked himself inside , took from icebox with icebox carefully , so not soil his cuffs , two hefty balyks , wrapped them them in the newspaper string , neatly and set .
 Then in next room he made that in place his summer hat coat silk-lined and , and only after that proceeded to the kitchen , where the carefully boning promised his visitors pirate fillets .
 It must be said that that there strange or incomprehensible in any 's actions Archibald 's Archibaldovich nothing was and strange they could only a superficial .
 's behaviour Archibald Archibaldovich perfectly perfectly logical was the of all before .
 A knowledge the latest events , and above all phenomenal intuition Archibald Archibaldovich , told the chief of Griboedov the restaurant that that dinner his two visitors would be while abundant and , extremely sumptuous short duration .
 And intuition , yet never which deceived the former freebooter , not let down him this either time .
 Just as as Koroviev and Behemoth clinking second glasses wonderful , cold double-distilled Moskovskaya double-distilled double-distilled vodka , appeared on the veranda sweaty and sweaty excited chronicler Boba Kandalupsky , famous in Moscow his astounding omniscience , and once sat the with Petrakovs .
 Placing his bulging briefcase on the table , Boba Boba immediately put put his lips ear to Petrakov Boba and whispered into it some very tempting greasy lips . .
 , around , went furtive , And he , furtive look , whispering and whispering , and could make out separate words , as such :
 ' I swear you !
 On Sadovaya , on Sadovaya ! '
 ... bullets ... ... benzene fire ... ... bullets ... ...
 'It 'It 's these liars that spread vile rumours , in indignation somewhat louder than liked Boba boomed a contralto indignation voice Madame Petrakov , 'they 'they ought to be explained !
 Well , how will be , they 'll be to order !
 Such pernicious pernicious lies ! '
 ` Why lies lies bullets , Antonida Porfirievna ! ' exclaimed by the disbelief of the wife writer Boba , and again began spinning : ' I tell you , bullets no have effect ...
 And then the fire ... they in the air ... in the air ' Boba went hissing , not suspecting that that those he talking , were sitting next to him , delighting in his yarn .
 However , this delight soon ceased : from an inner passage of the restaurant veranda veranda strode precipitously strode three men their tightly precipitously drawn in by tightly belts leggings , , wearing and holding revolvers in hands .
 The one cried ringingly terribly and ringingly terribly :
 'Do 'Do n't n't move ! ' And at once all three opened fire on the veranda , aiming at heads Koroviev and of Behemoth .
 The two objects shooting instantly melted into air , and from the spurted pillar directly the tent . a if gaping maw with black edges appeared in the tent and began spreading in all directions .
 The fire leaping through it rose up to the roof of Griboedov House .
 lying on window-sill second floor Folders full Folders papers on window-sill the editorial suddenly blazed , the , and now fire , howling as if someone 's it blowing , pillars went to the interior of the aunt house .
 A later few seconds down the asphalt paths , leading to cast-iron the fence the boulevard , whence on Wednesday evening had come , understood no one first herald the Ivanushka , now went running various unfinished writers dinners , Sofya Pavlovna , Boba , Petrakov and Petrakov .
 Having calmly stepped through a side entrance , not fleeing hurrying or anywhere hurrying , like captain a who must leave his burning brig beforehand last , stood calmly Archibald Archibaldovich in summer coat his silk lining , with two balyk logs under arm .
 At sunset , high , over city on the stone terrace one of most the beautiful houses in Moscow , house built about a hundred fifty years ago , were two : Woland and Azazello .
 They not were be seen from the below street , because because they hidden from unwanted a balustrade with plaster vases and plaster flowers .
 But they city the see almost to very its edges .
 Woland was sitting on folding stool , dressed in black his soutane . His long broad sword was stuck between two a crack flags flags terrace vertically so to a sundial .
 The shadow of the sword slowly steadily and steadily lengthened , creeping towards the black shoes on feet .
 Resting sharp on stool , hunched on with one fist leg under him , Woland fixedly stared at endless the collection palaces , gigantic buildings and little destined be down pulled hovels .
 Azazello , having parted with his modern attire - that is jacket bowler , bowler and patent-leather shoes shoes and dressed , like like Woland , in black , motionless not stood motionless far from his sovereign , like him fixed his on city .
 Woland began speak :
 'Such 'Such an interesting city , not it ? '
 Azazello stirred and replied respectfully : ' Messire , I better like Rome .
 'Yes 'Yes , it matter a of taste , ' replied Woland . After while , again resounded his voice : 'And 'And what that smoke there on the boulevard ? '
 That is burning Griboedov , replied Azazello .
 'It 'It be must supposed that that inseparable pair , Koroviev and Behemoth , stopped by there ? '
 'Of 'Of that there no doubt , Messire . '
 Again fell silence , and two the on the terrace gazed at , facing west in the upper-floor upper-floor windows of fragmented dazzling dazzling sunlight .
 's eye Woland 's burned , like one of those windows , though Woland had his to the sunset .
 But here something made Woland turn his attention to the round tower behind him on the roof .
 From wall its stepped a tattered , , clay-covered sullen sullen man in chiton , in home-made sandals sandals , black-bearded .
 'Hah 'Hah ! ' exclaimed Woland , looking mockingly the at newcomer . 'Least 'Least all I expect you here !
 What you have come with , uninvited , uninvited guest ? '
 ' I see to you , spirit evil shadows and sovereign shadows , replied newcomer , glowering inimically glowering at Woland .
 ` If you see me , , why did you a evening me , former tax collector ? ` Woland said Woland sternly .
 ` Because I n't wish you a , ` replied insolendy newcomer .
 'But 'But you yourself have to reconcile yourself to that objected Woland , and a twisted his . no 'You appear on the roof than sooner produce absurdity , and I 'll tell you what it - it your intonation .
 You uttered your words as if you n't acknowledge shadows , either or shadows evil .
 consider Kindly the question : what would do your good , if not did exist evil shadows , and what would the look earth if from it disappeared shadows ?
 Shadows are cast by objects and people .
 Here is the of my shadow sword .
 also have shadows Trees and living beings . want Do you skin tearing whole earth , , tearing off it all trees and living because of your fantasy of enjoying bare light ?
 You 're fool . '
 ' I n't wo with argue you , old sophist , ' replied Matthew Levi .
 `` 'You also not can with me argue fool , for the reason I already 've mentioned , fool replied Woland and asked : `` Well , make short , n't weary me , why appeared ? '
 'He 'He sent me . '
 'What 'What did he tell say you , slave ? '
 ' I not a slave , growing , replied Matthew Levi , ' I 'm his disciple . '
 'You 'You I speak and speak different languages , as usual , responded Woland , 'but 'but the things we say for that n't do change .
 And so ...
 'He 'He read work the master said reward Matthew , 'and asks to you take with the master and reward him peace .
 Is ' that hard for you do , spirit of evil ?
 'Nothing me 'Nothing is hard do , ' answered Woland , 'you that well know . ' He paused and added : 'But 'But why do you n't take him with you into light ? '
 'He 'He does not deserve light , he deserves peace , sorrowful in voice said Levi .
 'Tell 'Tell him him it will be done , ' replied Woland and , eye his flashing : 'And 'And leave me immediately . '
 'He 'He asks that she who loved him and suffered because of him him taken also , ' for the first time pleadingly addressed Levi Woland Woland .
 'We without you would 'We never have thought of it .
 Go ' .
 Matthew Levi after that disappeared , and Woland called Azazello and ordered him :
 'Fly 'Fly arrange to them and all arrange . '
 Azazello left the terrace , and Woland remained alone . But solitude his not did last .
 Over came the flags the of footsteps and animated voices , and before Woland stood Koroviev and Behemoth .
 But now primus no had , but loaded was other with things . Thus , under arm he had small landscape smock in gold a frame , from hand hung cook half-burnt , and in the other he held a whole salmon with skin and with tail .
 Koroviev and Behemoth reeked fire . mug Behemoth 's was all sooty and his was burnt .
 'Greetings 'Greetings Messire , ' cried irrepressible pair , and Behemoth waved salmon .
 ' A fine sight , ' said Woland .
 'Imagine Messire , cried excitedly and excitedly joyfully Behemoth , ' I for looter taken ! !
 'Judging 'Judging by brought the things , ' replied Woland , glancing at the landscape , 'you 'you are a looter ! '
 'Believe 'Believe Messire me , Messire ... soulful voice began Behemoth .
 'No 'No , I do , ' curdy replied Woland .
 'Messire 'Messire , I swear , I made heroic efforts to save everything I was could , and this is all able rescue . '
 'You 'You 'd better tell me , why did Griboedov 's fire ? ' asked Woland .
 Both Koroviev and Behemoth their arms , spread raised their eyes to heaven , and Behemoth cried out :
 ` I n't conceive !
 We were sitting peacefully , perfectly perfectly quiet , having eat ...
 'And 'And - suddenly bang , bang ! ' picked up Koroviev , 'gunshots 'gunshots !
 Crazed with fear , our and Behemoth ran out to the boulevard , pursuers , we rushed to Timiriazev ! '
 'But 'But the sense , put Behemoth , 'overcame 'overcame our shameful duty fear and we went back . '
 'Ah 'Ah , you went back ? ' said Woland . 'Well , 'Well of , then building was reduced ashes to .
 ' To ashes ! ruefully confirmed Koroviev , 'that 'that is literally , Messire , to ashes , as you were pleased aptly put it .
 Nothing but embers ! '
 ' I hastened , narrated Behemoth , 'to 'to room meeting , the one with columns , Messire , hoping bring out something valuable .
 Ah , Messire , my wife , if only one I had , twenty times was in being left a widow !
 But , happily , Messire , I not married , and me tell you really I happy , that not .
 Ah , Messire , can how trade a 's burdensome freedom for the burdensome yoke '
 'Again 'Again gibberish gets some gibberish , observed Woland .
 ' I hear 'Yes and continue . replied cat , , this landscape here !
 It anything impossible to was bring out of meeting room , the flames were beating my in face .
 I ran to the and rescued the salmon .
 I ran to the kitchen and rescued the smock .
 I think do , Messire , that I did everything I could , and n't understand how the sceptical expression on your face . '
 'And 'And what did do Koroviev were while you looting ? ' asked Woland .
 ' I was helping the firemen , Messire , ' replied Koroviev , pointing to his torn trousers .
 'Ah 'Ah , if so , then , of course will have be built new building . '
 ` 'It will be built , Messire , responded Koroviev , ` I venture to assure you of that . '
 'Well 'Well , so us it remains for to wish than that it be better old one , ' observed Woland .
 'It 'It be will , Messire , ' said Koroviev .
 'You 'You believe me , the added cat , ' I a regular prophet . '
 'In 'In any case , we 're here , Messire , reported await Koroviev , 'and 'and await your Koroviev orders . '
 Woland got up from his stool , went over to balustrade and alone , silently , his back to his retinue , gazed into the distance .
 Then he stepped away from edge , , lowered himself to his stool and said :
 'There 'There orders no will , you fulfilled all you could , and for your services I longer no need .
 You may rest .
 Right now is coming a storm , the last storm , it will complete all that needs completing , and we be our on way . '
 ` Very well , Messire buffoons , ` the replied two buffoons and disappeared somewhere somewhere behind the round central tower , which stood in the middle the terrace .
 The storm of which had spoken Woland already was gathering on the horizon .
 A black cloud rose in the west and half cut off the sun . Then it covered it entirely .
 The the terrace became . A little later turned cool dark .
 This darkness which came from the west covered the vast city .
 disappeared Bridges and palaces .
 Everything vanished as if it never had existed in the world .
 across whole sky ran One fiery thunderclap thread . Then the city shook thunderclap .
 It was repeated , and began the storm . Woland could no longer be seen its in gloom .
 ` It 'You know , said Margarita , ` just as you fell asleep last night , I was reading about darkness the that came from Mediterranean Sea ... and those idols , ah , the golden idols !
 they For reason me some peace never leave in .
 I think , now 's it rain .
 Do you feel getting how cool it ? '
 'That all 'That well and good , replied master , smoking and breaking up with hand the smoke , ... 'and the idols . God with them , but what further will happen is decidedly unclear ! '
 This conversation This occurred at sunset , just moment when to Woland came Matthew Levi Woland on the terrace .
 The basement was open , and if had anyone looked through it , he been astonished have at how strange the looked the talkers .
 Margarita directly over naked body had a thrown black cloak , and master was in his hospital underwear .
 The this was that Margarita decidedly nothing had put on , because because all her clothes had stayed in house , and though this house was very near , of course , there was of question going to take there her clothes .
 And master , whose all clothes were found in the wardrobe the as if he anywhere had never gone anywhere , simply not did want to get dressed , developing before Margarita the thought that that moment was begin some any perfect nonsense .
 True , he was clean-shaven first time for since that autumn night ( in the clinic beard his had been clippers ) .
 The room also had very a strange look , and anything make in its chaos was very hard to .
 the rug lying Manuscripts , were on sofa . sat Manuscripts A book humpbacked on armchair . And on the round table was set out dinner , with among dishes standing several bottles .
 Where came from all this and food drink was known neither to Margarita the to master .
 waking up they everything found already on the table .
 Having slept until sunset Saturday , the master and and his friend felt themselves thoroughly fortified , and only one thing told of the 's adventure - in both slight had the left temple .
 with regard But , changes in both them there were great great , as been anyone who was able eavesdrop the conversation in the basement .
 But there eavesdrop was decidedly no one .
 courtyard That was good precisely always being empty .
 With each day the stronger rising greening lindens lindens and the breeze outside the window exuded an of smell spring , and the carried it into the basement .
 'Pah 'Pah devil the unexpectedly exclaimed master . 'But it , think 'But he put out butt ashtray in the cigarette ashtray and pressed his with hands , , the .
 you crazy seriously crazy that we yesterday were at Satan ? '
 'Quite 'Quite 'Quite seriously , replied Margarita .
 'Of 'Of course , of course , ironically the master , now 'so are of madman instead one two ! husband and wife ' He raised his hands to heaven and cried : 'No 'No , the devil knows what is The devil , devil !
 Instead answering answering , Margarita collapsed the on sofa , burst laughing , burst waved bare legs and then only cried out :
 'Aie 'Aie , I n't ... I ca n't !
 You should see what you look ! Having laughing , while master bashfully pulled up the hospital drawers , Margarita became serious . 'You 'You now unwittingly spoke the truth , she , devil knows 'the what is , and devil , believe me , everything will arrange ! eyes Her suddenly flashed , she jumped , jumped on spot and began crying out : 'How 'How I happy , how I happy , how I happy am that struck with him a bargain !
 Oh , Satan , Satan ! ...
 You 'll have dear , my live with a witch ! ' Then she rushed her to the master , , put around his arms neck and began his kissing lips , his lips nose , his cheeks .
 Strands unkempt of black hair leaped at the master , and cheeks and forehead his burned under the kisses .
 'And 'And you really resemble a witch . '
 'And 'And I it do n't deny , ' answered Margarita , ' I a witch and very it 'm glad . '
 ` , 'Well ` said master , witch nice , very also nice splendid , splendid ! And I nice been stolen from the hospital !
 been brought here .
 Let 's suppose that ...
 me But , , But tell are by all holy , how and what we going to live ?
 My say that I concern for you , believe me ! '
 At that moment in appeared round-toed pinstriped shoes trousers and the lower part .
 Then the trousers bent at the knee and and somebody hefty daylight daylight blocked somebody hefty the backside .
 'Aloisy 'Aloisy , are you home ? ' asked a voice somewhere up above trousers , outside the window .
 'There 'There it , beginning , said master .
 'Aloisy 'Aloisy ? 'He asked Margarita , going closer to the window . 'He was arrested yesterday .
 Who him asking ?
 What 's your name ? '
 That That instant the knees and backside vanished , came the the , after which everything returned to normal .
 Margarita collapsed the laughed on sofa and laughed so that tears poured her from eyes .
 But when she calmed , countenance her countenance changed greatly , she she speaking and , spoke slipped from the couch , crept to couch knees the master and , looking his into knees eyes , began caress head . 'How 'How you 've suffered , how you 've suffered , my poor one !
 it 'm knows only I one .
 Look , white threads in hair and an eternal crease by lips !
 My one , my dearest , n't do think about anything !
 You 've too much had think , and now 'll think I for you .
 And I promise you , I promise , that everything will be dazzlingly well ! '
 ' I anything not afraid , Margot , the suddenly answered her master and raised head and seemed her same the as been , when inventing that which never had he seen , but of which for he knew that it been 'not afraid because , I all already experienced it .
 They too frighten and anything any more frighten not can .
 But I pity you , Margot , that 's the trick , that 's why I keep saying and it .
 Come senses ! Why your you ruin your life with sick man and beggar ?
 Go back !
 I pity you , that it I say . '
 'Oh 'Oh , you , you ... shaking dishevelled head , shaking Margarita , 'oh 'oh you faithless , unfortunate man ...
 I Because of you whole night the yesterday shivering naked , I lost my nature one and replaced with a it new , several months I spent sitting in a dark closet thinking about one about the storm over Yershalaim , I cried out my eyes , and now , when has befallen happiness , you me drive away !
 Well , I 'll go , I 'll go , but that you a cruel man !
 They devastated 've your soul ! '
 Bitter tenderness rose up in heart the master , and , without knowing why , he began weep , burying in face 's hair Margarita .
 Weeping , whispered him , and her fingers she trembled on 's temples the master .
 'Yes 'Yes , threads , threads ... before my your eyes head is getting covered snow ... ah , my much-suffering much-suffering head !
 Look what in you 've eyes ! in them 's a desert ... and the shoulders , the shoulders with burden ... ... crippled , crippled 's speech Margarita was becoming incoherent , Margarita was shaking with tears .
 Then master wiped his eyes , raised from knees Margarita , got up himself and firmly said :
 'Enough 'Enough .
 You 've me shamed .
 I Never again yield to faint-heartedness or come back to this question , , be reassured .
 I know 're that that we both victims of our the mental illness , which perhaps perhaps you got from me ...
 Well , together we bear it . '
 Margarita put her lips close to ear the master and whispered :
 ' swear you by your life , swear the astrologer 's son astrologer guessed , all will be well ! '
 'Fine , 'Fine , fine responded master and , laughing he added : 'Of 'Of course , when people been robbed , like you and me , they seek salvation from other-worldly powers !
 Well , , I agree to seek there . '
 'Well , there , there , now your old self , you 're laughing , ` replied devil Margarita , ` and you with your learned words .
 Other-worldly or not other-worldly , n't all is it same ?
 I want to eat ! And she dragged the master to the table .
 ' I not 'm sure this food n't is fall through the floor or fly out the window , ' said he , completely calm .
 'It 'It n't wo fly out . '
 And just then the window a came nasal voice :
 'Peace 'Peace be you . ''
 The master gave a start , but already to accustomed extraordinary Margarita exclaimed :
 'Why 'Why it 's Azazello !
 Ah , how nice , how good ! ' and , whispering to master : 'You 'You see , you see , we not 're abandoned ! she rushed open the .
 'Cover yourself 'Cover yourself , the called her master .
 'Spit 'Spit on it , ' answered Margarita already in corridor .
 And there Azazello bowing greeting , flashing the master and greeting his blind eye , while Margarita exclaimed :
 'Ah 'Ah glad , how glad I am !
 I never glad been so glad in life !
 But forgive me , Azazello , for being naked ! '
 Azazello begged not to worry , assuring that he seen flayed not only naked women , but even women with their wrapped skin and flayed willingly sat at table stove , willingly first having placed in the corner the stove some package in dark brocade .
 Margarita poured Azazello some cognac , and he willingly drank it .
 The master , not taking his off him eyes , quietly under the table quietly pinched his own left hand . But pinches the not did help .
 Azazello not did melt into air , and , to tell the truth , for that no was need .
 There nothing terrible in , reddish-haired short man was his eye with albugo , but that occurs even without of sorcery unless his clothes not quite were ordinary some cassock or cloak again , unless strictly considered , that also happens .
 his cognac He too adroitly drank , , as all good do people , by glassful nibbling and without nibbling .
 From this same cognac the master became giddy head , and he began to think : 'No 'No 's , Margarita right ...
 Of course this , before me is sitting the messenger devil .
 , I I myself No more than nights ago two tried to prove to Ivan that he had met at Patriarch Ponds precisely Satan , and now for reason got scared the thought and started something babbling about hypnotists hallucinations and hallucinations ...
 Devil 's it any hypnotists in ! ... '
 He began looking at Azazello and became convinced that in his eyes there was some constraint , thought that he before time not would reveal .
 'This he not just a visit , is come 'This on 's some errand ' , thought the master .
 His powers him not did deceive .
 After drinking a third glass cognac , which in Azazello no produced no effect , the visitor spoke thus :
 ` A cosy little basement , devil me take !
 one Only question arises - what is there to do in this little basement ?
 's That 's what I was saying , the ' laughing , answered master .
 'Why 'Why do 'We you me trouble , Azazello ? asked Margarita . 'We 'll somehow ! '
 'Please 'Please , please ! cried Azazello , ' I even of never thought you troubling .
 I or same say - the thing somehow !
 Ah !
 I forgot his Messire sends you regards regards and also has asked to tell that invites me you go on with him a little excursion - if , of course , you wish .
 What do you to that say ?
 Margarita under the table nudged leg the master .
 ' With great pleasure , replied the master , studying Azazello , who who continued :
 ` ' We hope that that also Margarita Nikolaevna not will decline the ?
 ' I certainly not will , ' said Margarita , and again her leg brushed against the master .
 ` A wonderful wonderful thing ! exclaimed Azazello . ` that I like !
 One , two and it done !
 Not like that time in Alexandrovsky the Garden ! '
 'Ah 'Ah , n't n't remind blame me , Azazello ! I was stupid then .
 That do n't you Azazello Azazello ! .
 'Would pleasant ' if every day it it was be pleasant !
 ' I myself myself like quickness , said Margarita excitedly , I like quickness and nakedness ...
 Like from a Mauser - bang !
 Ah , how he shoots ! cried Margarita , turning to the master . ` A seven under the pillow - and any pip ... ` Margarita was getting drunk , her eyes made blaze .
 ` 'And again I forgot ! cried Azazello , slapping on himself the forehead . ` I quite frazzled !
 Messire sends you a present , ' here he adverted precisely to master , ' a bottle wine .
 I to note that that it 's the same the wine drank procurator of Judea . Falernian wine . '
 It was perfectly natural that such a rarity arouse great attention in Margarita and the master .
 Azazello drew from the piece of dark coffin brocade completely mouldy .
 The sniffed , poured into glasses , held to disappearing before the the light in the window was , which was storm . To health Woland 's ! ' exclaimed Margarita , raising her glass .
 All three put their to glasses and their took big gulps .
 At once the pre-storm light began fade in eyes the master , breath failed him and he felt the coming end .
 He still could see the deathly Margarita , helplessly reaching to him arms , drop head to the table and then her slide on floor .
 ` Poisoner the ` managed to cry out master .
 He wanted snatch knife from the table and strike Azazello it , but hand his strengthlessly slid from the , everything around the master in the basement took a black colour and then altogether vanished .
 He fell backwards backwards and in falling cut his the skin on corner desk temple .
 When the poisoned ones lay still , Azazello began act .
 First , he rushed out of the window and a few instants later was in the house where lived Margarita Nikolaevna .
 The ever precise and accurate Azazello wanted make sure that everything was carried out properly .
 And everything turned be in perfect order . Azazello saw a gloomy , was waiting for 's return husband woman come out of her bedroom , , suddenly pale , clutch her heart the and and cry helplessly : 'Natasha 'Natasha ... somebody ... ... come fall to floor in living room before reaching the .
 'Everything 'Everything 's in order , ' said Azazello .
 A moment later he was beside the fallen lovers . Margarita lay with her face the rug .
 With his iron hands , Azazello turned over her like a doll , face to him and peered at her .
 The his face of eyes poisoned was changing . Even in the , see disappear her her the temporary woman witch 's and cruelty violence and .
 The of the dead woman brightened and finally finally softened , and face the her was no longer predatory , but simply a suffering woman .
 Then Azazello unclenched her white teeth and poured into her mouth several drops of the same wine with which her had poisoned .
 Margarita sighed , began to rise without help Azazello , and weakly asked : 'Why 'Why 'Why , Azazello , why why ?
 What you done to me ? '
 She saw outstretched outstretched the master , shuddered and whispered : ' this I n't did expect ... murderer ! '
 'Oh 'Oh no , , no , answered Azazello , 'he presently 'he rise presently .
 Ah , why you so nervous ? '
 Margarita believed him once , so convincing was voice the red-headed demon 's .
 She jumped up , strong and alive , and helped to give outstretched man wine . Opening his eyes , he gave and with hatred repeated his last word :
 'Poisoner 'Poisoner ...
 'Ah 'Ah , ! insults are the usual reward for a good job . replied Azazello . 'Are 'Are you insults blind ?
 Well quickly recover your , ! '
 Here master rose , looked with alive and bright eyes and asked : 'What 'What does mean this thing new ?
 'It 'It means , replied Azazello , 'that 'that 's us time go .
 already is thundering The storm , you thundering hear ?
 It 's .
 The steeds are pawing ground , is shuddering your little garden .
 Say farewell to basement , say farewell quickly . '
 'Ah 'Ah , understand glancing the said master , glancing , 'you us killed , we 're dead . Oh , how that is timely ! how timely !
 Now I understand everything . '
 'Oh 'Oh , pity , replied Azazello , 'is you 'is I hear talking ?
 Your friend calls you a master , you think , how can you can be dead ?
 Is order , to consider yourself alive , necessary in to sit dress in a basement and in yourself a shirt and hospital drawers ?
 It ridiculous !
 ' I understand everything everything you 're saying , cried master , 'do n't go on !
 You a thousand times 're right '
 'Great 'Great Woland ! began echo him Margarita . 'Great 'Great Woland !
 He thought out it much better than I !
 But the novel , novel , shouted she master , novel 'take with you wherever you fly ! '
 'No 'No need , replied the master , ' I remember it by heart . '
 ` But you wo n't ... you word of it n't forget ? ' asked Margarita , pressing herself to lover and wiping the blood from his cut temple .
 'Do 'Do n't worry .
 I now anything 'll never forget , ' replied he .
 'Fire then 'Fire , ! ' cried Azazello . 'Fire 'Fire , with with which all began and which we all end . '
 'Fire 'Fire ! ' terribly cried Margarita .
 The window the basement banged , the wind was beaten curtain by .
 The sky thundered merrily and briefly .
 Azazello thrust hand clawed into the stove , pulled clawed smoking brand and set tablecloth to stove tablecloth . Then he set fire stack of old newspapers on sofa , and next the manuscripts and the curtain . The master , already drunk impending , flung from some book to table tablecloth , ruffled its pages in of the tablecloth , , and the book blazed merrily merrily .
 'Burn 'Burn , burn , former life ! '
 'Burn 'Burn , suffering ! ' cried Margarita .
 The room was already swaying in crimson pillars , , and along with the smoke ran out the door the three , went up stone steps and came the yard .
 first The thing they saw there was sitting on ground the cook landlord . Beside her lay spilled potatoes and several bunches onions .
 The state cook was comprehensible .
 Three black steeds snorted by the shed , twitching , sending fountains earth .
 Margarita mounted first , then Azazello , last master .
 The cook moaned and wanted her raise make hand to the cross sign the , but Azazello shouted menacingly shouted the from saddle :
 ' I cut your hand ! ' He whistled , and the steeds , breaking through the linden branches , whistled soared up and pierced the low black cloud .
 at once from the window poured Smoke . From below came the weak , pitiful cry the cook : 'We 'We ... ... The steeds already were racing over the rooftops Moscow .
 ' I want to bid farewell the to city , ' the cried master Azazello , who rode their at head .
 Thunder ate the end of the phrase master 's .
 Azazello nodded and sent a his horse gallop .
 The fliers precipitously flew the dark cloud , but yet not gave sprinkle fliers rain .
 They flew over boulevards , they saw figures of people scatter , running from the rain .
 The were first drops .
 They flew over smoke all - that remained House of Griboedov .
 They flew over city the which was already flooded darkness .
 Over them flashed lightning .
 Soon the roofs gave to greenery .
 then Only the rain , transforming the fliers into three huge bubbles in the water .
 Margarita was already familiar with the sensation of flight , but the master not , and he marvelled at how quickly they their reached goal , the one to whom he wished farewell , because he no one farewell had bid farewell .
 He recognized the immediately through the veil building 's clinic Stravinsky , river and the well studied he woods on the other bank .
 They came down in the clearing a copse not far from clinic .
 ' I wait for you here , ' cried Azazello , his lit hands lightning , now by lightning farewells , now disappearing behind grey the veil . 'Say , but be
 The master and Margarita jumped from saddles and flickering , like watery shadows , through the clinic garden .
 the A moment later master accustomed with hand pushing aside balcony grille the room no.117 no.117 . Margarita was followed after him .
 They stepped into Ivanushka , unseen and unnoticed , in the rumbling howling and howling the storm . The master stopped by the bed .
 Ivanushka lay motionless , as before , when first time for he watched a storm in the house his repose .
 But he not was weeping weeping as he then .
 Once he had taken a at dark the silhouette that burst into his from balcony , he himself , raised held hands and said joyfully : 'Ah 'Ah , it 's you ! And I kept waiting and waiting for you !
 here And you , my neighbour ! '
 To this the master replied : ' I 'm here , but your neighbour I unfortunately longer be not can .
 I 'm away for ever and flying come to you only , to farewell . ' I that knew guessed , I it , ' quietly replied Ivan and asked : 'You 'You met him ?
 'Yes 'Yes , ' said master . ' I come say to you , because because you are the only person with I talked lately lately . '
 Ivanushka brightened and said : ` It good 's that you off here stopped .
 I 'll word my keep , more write poems n't .
 I else now 'm interested , ' Ivanushka smiled and with mad eyes looked somewhere past the master . I else want write something . I here while lay , know me , a lot became clear . '
 The master was excited by these words and said , sitting the on edge Ivanushka 's bed : 'Ah but 's that good , that good .
 You about him a sequel write . '
 Ivanushka 's 's eyes lit up .
 'But 'But you yourself do ? Here he hung his head and pensively added : 'Ah 'Ah , yes ... what that I asking Ivanushka looked his the floor , fearful .
 ` 'Yes , said master , and voice his seemed to Ivanushka unfamiliar and hollow , ` I now more n't 'll write any about him . I 'll be occupied things other .
 A whistle the cut through the .
 'Do you 'Do hear ? ' asked the master .
 'The 'The noise of the storm ...
 'No 'No , it me being called , time , the master and got up from the .
 `` Wait !
 more One word , `` begged Ivan . `` you her find ?
 she you remain to faithful ? '
 ` Here is she , ` the replied master and pointed to the wall .
 from the white wall The separated dark Margarita and came up to the bed .
 She looked at the young man there and in eyes her could be read sorrow .
 'Poor 'Poor boy , poor boy ' soundlessly whispered Margarita and bent to the bed .
 'She 'She beautiful , without envy , but sadly and with a certain quiet tenderness said Ivan . 'Look 'Look you how for you everything well turned out .
 But for me not so . Here he thought and thoughtfully added : 'Or 'Or else maybe so ... '
 'It so whispered Margarita and she bent to I you 'm kiss to , and everything with you will be as it be ... ... in that me believe , I everything 've seen , everything know
 The young man put his her neck arms and she kissed him .
 'Farewell 'Farewell , disciple , barely audibly said master and began melting into melting air .
 He disappeared and with him disappeared Margarita . The balcony grille was closed .
 Ivanushka fell into anxiety .
 He sat up in bed , looked around uneasily , even moaned , began talking himself to , got up .
 The evidendy raged and more more and , stirred his soul .
 was upset his also that the He ear , accustomed to the constant silence , heard the troubling accustomed footsteps and troubling muted voices outside door .
 He called out , nervous now and trembling : 'Praskovya 'Praskovya Fyodorovna !
 Praskovya Fyodorovna was already coming into the room , questioningly uneasily and uneasily looking at Ivanushka .
 'What 'What ?
 What it ? is she . ?
 The storm upsets you ?
 Never now we 'll help you ... ... ... now I doctor call the ...
 'No 'No , Praskovya Fyodorovna , n't need the doctor call , ' said Ivanushka , anxiously looking not at Praskovya Fyodorovna but into the wall . with me nothing especially the .
 I can sort things out now , do n't worry .
 But you me better 'd tell , 'what soulfully begged Ivan , 'what in room one-eighteen just happened ?
 'Eighteen 'Eighteen ? ' repeated Praskovya Fyodorovna , and eyes her became furtive . , nothing there nothing happened .
 : But voice her was false , Ivanushka once it noticed and said :
 'Eh 'Eh 'Eh , Praskovya Fyodorovna ! You such a person truthful ... You 're think I get violent ?
 No , Praskovya Fyodorovna , that wo n't happen .
 You better direcdy speak , I can through the wall everything direcdy feel . '
 'Your 'Your neighbour away , ' whispered Praskovya Fyodorovna , unable to overcome her truthfulness and kindness , and fearfully she looked at Ivanushka , all clothed of lightning clothed lightning .
 But to Ivanushka nothing happened terrible .
 He only significandy raised his finger and said : ' I knew it !
 I assure you , Praskovya Fyodorovna , that yet in city just passed another person .
 I even know who , ' here Ivanushka smiled mysteriously smiled . 's a woman !
 The was swept without a trace , and , arch swept thrown across all of Moscow , stood in the sky a multicoloured rainbow , drinking water from Moscow River .
 High up , on hill , between two copses seen three dark silhouettes silhouettes .
 Woland , Koroviev and Behemoth sat on black saddle horses in saddle , looking at the out beyond the river city with fragmented sun , glittering in thousands of windows facing west , at the towers of the Devichy Convent .
 in There the air was , and Azazello , had who in black tail cloak his cloak the flying master and Margarita , alighted beside with them beside group waiting .
 'We 'We had to you a little , Margarita Nikolaevna and master , ' began Woland after some silence , 'but 'but you n't wo me that grudge .
 I n't do think you it regret .
 So then , , ' addressed he the master , 'bid 'bid the city .
 It time Woland pointed hand his black-gauntleted with black-gauntleted to , where numberless suns melted the glass beyond the river , where above these suns stood the mist , mist steam scorched all day city .
 The master threw himself of saddle , , left the and ran to the edge of the hillside . The black cloak dragged behind him the ground .
 The master began to look at the city .
 In first the moments over his heart a crept wringing sadness , but very quickly it gave sweetish anxiety , wondering gypsy gypsy excitement .
 ` For ever ! ...
 That needs to grasped the grasped whispered master and licked his dry , cracked lips .
 He began heed and precise take note of everything that that went in his soul .
 His excitement turned , as him it seemed , into a feeling grievous offence .
 But it was unstable , vanished and for some gave haughty a indifference , , and that a foretaste enduring peace .
 group of riders waited the master . group of riders watched the long black , figure on edge the hillside gesticulate , to raising his head , as if trying to reach the across whole city , hanging beyond its limits , now head as if studying trampled the meagre grass under his feet .
 The was broken bored the bored Behemoth .
 ` Allow me , maltre , give he , ` whisde before the a farewell ride .
 'You 'You may frighten the lady , ' answered Woland , 'and 'and , besides besides , n't forget that that all n't your today outrages now are end . '
 'Ah 'Ah no , , no , Messire , responded Margarita , sat hanging side-saddle side-saddle , who her side-saddle hanging to ground the train , 'allow let him , him whisde .
 I 'm overcome sadness before the journey .
 true Is , Messire , it quite natural 's even when when person a knows that at end the road is waiting happiness ?
 Let make him us , or I , afraid it will end in tears , and everything will spoiled before the journey ! '
 Woland nodded to Behemoth , who became , jumped from saddle , put puffed his fingers in cheeks , cheeks and whistled .
 Margarita 's ears rang 's ears .
 horse reared Her reared , in rained dry twigs from trees crows , a a whole flock of crows and sparrows , pillar dust went sweeping to river , and see could , as an excursion boat was passing the pier , blow the passengers several caps off into water .
 The he whistle made , but not did turn , yet began gesticulating still more anxiously , raising his hand to the sky as if threatening the city .
 Behemoth proudly condescendingly gazed around . 'That whistled , n't I do argue , condescendingly observed Koroviev , 'whistled 'whistled , but , to be condescendingly impartial , whistled rather middlingly .
 ' I 'm not a choirmaster , with dignity puffing , replied Behemoth and unexpectedly winked Margarita .
 'Give 'Give us a for old times , said Koroviev and rubbed hand , breathed on his fingers .
 'Watch 'Watch out , watch out , ' came the stern voice Woland on horse , 'no 'no of inflicting injuries . '
 'Messire 'Messire , believe me , responded Koroviev placing his hand on his heart , 'in fun , merely in fun ...
 Here he suddenly stretched himself upwards , as if were he made rubber screw , the fingers his right hand formed twisted some clever arrangement , twisted himself , like screw , and then , suddenly unwinding , whistled .
 This whisde Margarita not did hear , but she it saw in the moment when when she together with her fiery steed was thrown some twenty yards away .
 An beside beside her roots was torn up oak tree , and ground was covered cracks to the river . A huge slab bank , together with the pier and the restaurant , sagged into the river .
 The water boiled , shot up , and to opposite bank was washed the entire boat excursion with perfectly unharmed passengers .
 A the feet snorting Margarita steed was flung killed 's by Fagott jackdaw .
 The master was startled this whistle .
 He clutched his head and ran back to the group waiting companions .
 'Well 'Well then , ' addressed him Woland from height his steed , 'is your ? farewell 'is completed ?
 'Yes 'Yes , it completed the replied master and , having calmed down , looked into face Woland 's directly and boldly .
 And then over the hills rolled like a whistle voice the blast terrible of Woland 's : 'It ! ! and sharp whistle and guffaw Behemoth .
 The steeds tore off , and the riders rose the galloped into air and galloped .
 Margarita felt her furious steed champing and straining the bit .
 cloak Woland 's billowed over the heads the cavalcade ; the cloak began to cover the evening sky .
 When the black shroud was blown , Margarita looked back and she saw that that there not only multicoloured towers behind them the , but were had long itself city it been fallen through earth and left only mist smoke .
 Gods , gods my !
 How sad the evening earth !
 How mists swamps over swamps !
 who wandered in these mists , who much has suffered before death , who flown over this earth on himself too a burden he it knows . The knows weary . And he without regret leaves the mists earth , its swamps and rivers , he gives with a the heart into hands death , knowing that that she alone can bring him .
 The magical black horses became tired and carried their riders slowly , and ineluctable night began them overtake .
 Sensing it at his back , quieted even irrepressible Behemoth and , his sunk into saddle claws , quieted flew silent and irrepressible serious , puffing his claws tail .
 Night began cover black shawl forests and fields , night to lit melancholy melancholy lights somewhere far somewhere below - now longer no interesting and necessary either for Margarita or for master - alien lights .
 Night was outdistancing cavalcade , sowed itself over them from above , casting here and and there in saddened sky white specks specks stars .
 Night thickened , flew alongside , caught at the cloaks and , tearing them from shoulders , exposed the deceptions .
 And when Margarita , blown the cool wind , opened her eyes , she saw how changing appearance them they flew to their goal .
 when And from them beyond edge forest began rising crimson and full moon , all deceptions vanished , fell into swamp , drowned in mists the unstable garments .
 Hardly now recognizable as Koroviev-Fagott , the self-appointed interpreter mysterious no needed interpreting interpreter consultant interpreting , was he who now flew just beside beside Woland to the right the friend master 's .
 In place him who who in ragged circus costume left Sparrow Koroviev-Fagott Hills under name of Koroviev-Fagott , now rode clinking , softly clinking the golden bridle , dark-violet knight with gloomy and never-smiling never-smiling never-smiling face .
 He rested his his chin chest , he not look the moon , he not interested in earth , he was thinking something of own , flying beside beside Woland .
 `` Why he so has changed ? `` asked whistling quietly Margarita the whistling the wind Woland .
 knight This once an altogether unfortunate made replied Woland , turning to Margarita his its face with quietly burning eye . 'The pun he thought , in discussion about light and darkness , was not altogether good .
 And the knight had after that go joking bit more and longer than he supposed .
 But is one the nights of when are accounts settled .
 The knight his up account paid and closed . '
 Night tore off fluffy Behemoth 's , pulled off his tail fur and scattered it in tufts over swamps .
 He who who been a cat , entertaining prince darkness , now turned be slim youth , a demon-page , best jester the jester has seen ever the world .
 Now and he , grew flew noiselessly , setting his young face towards light that streamed from the moon .
 At the flew , the glittering steel armour , Azazello .
 The moon changed also his his face . disappeared absurd ugly absurd ugly fang albugo , and the albugo proved false .
 both 's eyes Azazello were was the same , empty and black , and face white and cold .
 Now Azazello flew in his true form , as demon waterless the desert , the killer-demon .
 herself Margarita see not could , but she well saw very how the had changed master .
 His hair His was white now in moonlight and behind gathered a in braid , and it flew on the wind .
 When the wind blew the cloak from 's legs the master , Margarita saw on jackboots his now the , now lighting up stars of spurs .
 Like the demon-youth , master the flew with fixed smiling on the moon , yet smiling it , as beloved friend close and a beloved , and something , from a acquired in habit room no.118 no.118 , himself murmuring .
 And , finally , Woland flew also in his true image .
 Margarita not could have said what was made bridle his horse bridle , but thought be chains moonlight and the horse a 's , and mane the horse cloud , and spurs the the white flecks stars .
 Thus they flew in silence long time , until itself the place below them began to change .
 The melancholy forests drowned in earthly darkness and drew with them the dim of blades rivers .
 below appeared and began gleam Boulders , with between them gleam black gaps , where not did penetrate the moonlight .
 Woland reined his horse on stony joyless stony , joyless flat summit , and then the riders proceeded walk , listening to the horses the under of crunch flint and crunch stone .
 Moonlight flooded the platform greenly and brightly , and Margarita soon made out in this deserted place an armchair and in it the white figure of seated man .
 Possibly Possibly Possibly the seated man was deaf or too sunk in thoughts . He not did shudder , the stony earth under weight horses , and the riders without disturbing him approached him .
 The moon well helped Margarita , it shone better , than the best electric lantern lantern , and Margarita saw that that the seated , man eyes whose seemed blind , fitfully rubbed his hands and those same unseeing eyes peered the disc the moon .
 Now Margarita saw , that beside the heavy stone chair , on which glittered in moonlight sparks , lay a dark , , huge sharp-eared dog and , like its master , anxiously gazed at the moon .
 by feet seated were Pieces a broken jug man and an undrying black-red puddle .
 The riders stopped their horses .
 ' Your novel been read , began Woland , turning to the master , 'and 'and the said only was that it , unfortunately , not is finished .
 So , then , I wanted to show you your hero .
 For about two thousand years sitting he on this platform and sleeping , but when comes the full moon , as you see , he is tormented insomnia . It torments not only him , but also his faithful guardian , the dog .
 If is true that cowardice is the most grievous vice , then at least , the dog of it not is guilty .
 the only thing feared the brave dog were Storms .
 Well , he who loves must share the lot the one he loves . '
 ` What is he saying ? ` asked Margarita , and perfectly perfectly calm her face clouded over with compassion .
 ` He says replied Woland . ` one and the same 'He says , that even the moon him no peace and that his is a bad job .
 That says he he always when not he asleep , and when he , sleeps dreams one and the same of moonlight a path , and wants to walk down it and talk with the prisoner Ha-Nozri , because because , as he insists , he what was never finished saying that , ago , the fourteenth day the spring of month Nisan .
 But , alas , to this reason path he get for some never manages , and to him no one no comes .
 Then it , must talk he to himself .
 However , need some diversity , and to his talk about the moon he often adds , he most things in world hates his immortality and his unheard-of fame .
 He maintains that he willingly would for the ragged tramp Matthew Levi .
 ` Twelve thousand moons for one moon long ago n't , is too n't that much ? ' asked Margarita .
 ` Repeating story with Frieda ? said Woland . ` 'But , Margarita do here n't n't trouble yourself yourself .
 Everything will right built , the that is world .
 'Let 'Let go him ! suddenly piercingly piercingly cried Margarita , as had once cried , as she a witch , and at this cry fell tumbled ledges in mountains and tumbled down into abyss , filling mountains rumbling .
 But Margarita not could have said whether was whether it the rumbling its fall or the rumbling of satanic laughter .
 In any case , Woland was laughing as glanced at Margarita and said :
 'Do n't shout in the mountains , he anyway anyway accustomed to avalanches , and it him n't 's rouse .
 You do n't need to ask for him , Margarita , because for him already has asked the he so yearns to talk . ' Here Woland turned to the master and said : 'Well 'Well , now your novel you n't can finish one with phrase !
 The master seemed to been this expecting , as stood motionless and looked at seated procurator .
 He cupped hands mouth and cried out so that echo leaped over unpeopled and unforested the mountains :
 'You 'You 're free ! You 're free !
 He 's you ! '
 The mountains turned voice the master to thunder , and this same thunder they were destroyed .
 The accursed accursed rocky walls collapsed . remained Only the platform with the stone armchair . Over the black abyss , into which the gone walls , a lit boundless gleaming city by luxuriously gleaming idols above luxuriously grown over many thousands of moons garden moons .
 The right to this garden awaited stretched the procurator moonlight path , and first down it rush was the sharp-eared dog .
 The man in the white cloak with blood-red lining rose from the armchair and blood-red something shouted hoarse , cracked voice .
 It impossible was tell whether laughing he or laughing , or what he shouted .
 It seen be only that , following following his faithful guardian down the moonlight path rushed headlong rushed he .
 ` I follow there him ? ` the asked anxiously master , holding the bridle .
 'No 'No , replied Woland , 'why 'why run after after what already is finished ?
 ' There , then , There ? the asked master , turning and pointing back , , where recently the abandoned city with the convent towers windows , , with broken gingerbread sun smithereens in smithereens them .
 ` there , replied Woland , and voice his thickened and flowed over the rocks . ` Romantic master !
 He the , whom so yearns see hero , whom you have just invented free , has read your novel . '
 ` Here Woland turned to Margarita : ` Margarita Nikolaevna !
 It is not to believe that you have tried to think up for the master the best future , but , , what what I offering has asked you , and Yeshua you , still better !
 Leave 's them to each other , ' said Woland , leaning from his saddle own towards the master , pointing to where the gone procurator , 'let not 'let them interfere with .
 And maybe maybe at 'll something they arrive . Here Woland waved his arm in the direction of Yershalaim , and it went out .
 'And 'And there too , , ' Woland pointed , 'what 'what are do you to in the basement ? ' Here the up went sun in the glass .
 'Why 'Why ? ' went Woland persuasively and gently , 'oh 'oh , thrice-romantic thrice-romantic master , 'oh that do you n't want to daytime strolling with your friend under cherry trees , bloom , and in the evening listen to music Schubert 's ?
 Can that you n't be like writing quill with candlelight goose by candlelight ?
 Can it do you n't want like Faust , to sit over a retort in hopes that that you 'll succeed forming a new homunculus ?
 There ! There ! The are waiting already you house and the old servant , the candles already are burning , and soon they , because because you will immediately meet the dawn .
 Down this path , master , this one !
 Farewell me ! It go !
 'Farewell 'Farewell ! ' one cry answered the Woland Margarita and master .
 Then the black Woland , heedless of any road , threw himself hurried into a gap , and down after him , noisily , hurried his retinue .
 There rocks , no platform , no of moonlight path , no Yershalaim no were around .
 vanished also The black steeds .
 The master and Margarita saw the promised . It began straight away , immediately after midnight dawn moon .
 The master walked with his friend in the brilliance the first rays morning over a mossy stone little bridge . crossed it . stream left The faithful lovers and They walked down the sandy path .
 'Listen 'Listen to the stillness , ` said to Margarita master , and the sand rustled under her bare feet , ` listen and enjoy what you not were given in life , peace .
 Look , there ahead is your eternal home , which you have given as a reward .
 I already see the Venetian the window and twisting vine , it climbs up to the roof .
 Here is your home , your eternal home .
 I know that that evenings visited by those those who you love , you interest and who never the .
 They will you play , they will sing for you , you will see what light in the room is when are burning candles .
 You will fall asleep , having put on your greasy and greasy eternal nightcap , you will fall asleep with a smile on lips .
 Sleep strengthen you , you will will reason wisely .
 And drive me you longer no able away .
 watch over your sleep will I . '
 Thus spoke Margarita , walking with the master to eternal their home , and to master it seemed 's that words Margarita flowed the same way as flowed and whispered left behind stream , and memory the master , anxious , the needled memory began fade .
 Someone was setting the free master , as himself he just set free he the created hero . This hero had gone into abyss , gone irrevocably , the forgiven on eve of the eve son astrologer-king , , cruel fifth procurator Judea equestrian , the equestrian Pontius Pilate .
 But all the same , what happened later in Moscow after that when Saturday sunset evening sunset at Woland left the capital , disappeared with his retinue from Sparrow Hills ?
 Of fact the that for a long time over the capital went a dense hum most incredible rumours , very quickly spread to remote forsaken and forsaken places provincial , and said nothing is . rumours such even nauseating to repeat .
 The writer these truthful lines himself personally , , a trip to Feodosiya , heard the train a story about in Moscow two thousand persons coming out theatre stark-naked in the literal sense word and in that fashion returning home in taxi-cabs .
 The whisper 'unclean 'unclean powers ' whisper was heard in queues waiting dairy tram-cars , in stores shops , apartments kitchens , in trains suburban big and long-distance small long-distance , at stations resorts , and on resorts beaches .
 The most developed and cultured people in this tale-telling about the unclean powers that had visited Moscow , to be sure , no part no took , even laughed at them and tried to the tellers bring reason .
 But fact all the is a fact , and to brush it without explanations simply is impossible : someone had visited the capital . nice The cinders from Griboedov , as and many things other too eloquently that confirmed eloquently .
 Cultured people adopted the view the investigation : been gang of hypnotists ventriloquists and ventriloquists with superb it their of art .
 Measures for them catching , in Moscow as well as outside outside it , were , of course , taken immediately and energetically , but , most regrettably regrettably , results no produced .
 The one calling himself Woland with all his company disappeared and to Moscow neither returned and anywhere else appeared himself not did manifest .
 Quite naturally , the emerged suggestion that he had fled abroad abroad , but , there he no himself .
 investigation of his case continued for long . Because in , truth , a case it was monstrous !
 Not to mention four burned-down buildings and hundreds of driven mad people , been there murders .
 Of two this could be said certainty : of Berlioz , and of that ill-fated employee of the bureau for acquainting foreigners with places of in Moscow , the former Baron Meigel .
 They been murdered . The charred bones latter were discovered in apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 on Sadovaya Street after put the fire .
 Yes , were there victims , and these victims called for investigation .
 But were well other there victims , even after after Woland left the capital , and these victims were , enough sadly , black cats .
 Approximately hundred these peaceful , devoted mankind and useful to animals were shot or exterminated otherwise in various parts of the country .
 About a dozen cats , some badly badly disfigured disfigured , were delivered to stations police stations in various cities .
 For instance , in Armavir one of perfectly perfectly guiltless beasts was brought some citizen to the police with its front paws tied .
 been ambushed This cat citizen at the very moment when the animal with thievish look ( how it be helped if cats this look ?
 It not because they depraved , but because they are afraid lest some beings stronger depraved than themselves beings dogs or people no cause them some harm or offence . Both very , but credit in so I assure , is all no , none ! ) , so , then with thievish look cat was about dash for into burdock .
 Falling upon cat and tearing his necktie the , to bind it , the citizen venomously threateningly and venomously threateningly muttered : 'Aha 'Aha ! So been now to our come to Armavir , , mister hypnotist hypnotist ?
 Well , here we you not afraid .
 Do pretend n't pretend be dumb !
 We know of what you goose ! '
 The brought the cat to the police citizen , dragging the poor beast by front paws , bound a green necktie it little kicks , make the cat not otherwise walk on hind legs .
 ` You , cried citizen , accompanied by whistling whistling boys , 'quit the fool playing !
 n't wo do It !
 Kindly walk like everybody else ! '
 The black cat only rolled martyred its eyes .
 Being deprived nature of the gift of speech , it way in any not could deprived vindicate itself .
 The salvation its poor beast salvation owed of first to the police , and to its owner - a venerable old widow .
 As as the cat was delivered the to station , it was realized that citizen rather strongly smelled of alcohol , as result which police evidence his at once was .
 And meanwhile little old lady , having learned from neighbours that that her cat hauled had been hauled , rushed rushed to station and arrived in time .
 She gave the most flattering references for the cat , explained she that that known it five years for , since it was kitten , vouched for it as for own self and she proved that it anything bad and never never vouched been to Moscow .
 As it born in Armavir , so there it grown up and learned catching mice .
 The cat was untied and returned to its owner , having true , grief , having learned grief error and slander .
 Besides cats , some minor unpleasantnesses befell certain persons .
 Detained . Detained for a short time were : in Leningrad , the citizens Wolman and Wolper ; in Saratov , Kiev and Kharkov , three one Volodins ; in Kazan , Volokh in Penza and for totally unknown reasons - doctor of chemical sciences Vetchinkevich .
 True , he was enormously tall , very swarthy dark-haired dark-haired .
 were caught In various places , besides that , nine Korovins Karavaevs , four Korovkins and two Karavaevs .
 A certain citizen was taken off Sebastopol the train bound at station Belgorod . citizen This entertain his fellow passengers with card tricks .
 In Yaroslavl , at lunch-time lunch-time , to a restaurant a came citizen carrying a primus which he just had picked up repaired .
 the two doormen The they saw him , abandoned their posts in the coatroom and fled , and after them fled the restaurant 's all customers and 's personnel .
 With that , the register inexplicable fashion had disappear all girl money .
 was else much , not remember but There everything .
 Again and again must be done justice the investigation .
 Every was attempt made not only to to catch the criminals , but but to to explain all their mischief .
 And all it was explained , and explanations these can not be acknowledged as sensible and irrefutable .
 Representatives of the investigation and experienced psychiatrists established that that members the criminal gang or , one of them ( mainly suspicion suspicion fell on Koroviev ) , were unprecedented power hypnotists , who could show themselves not in the place where where they actually actually were , but in positions imaginary , shifted .
 Along that , they freely could suggest they that that certain things or people were where actually actually they not were , and , contrariwise , could remove from field vision things or people that that in fact within that field vision were found .
 In light of such explanations , decidedly everything was clear , even most troublesome inexplicable citizens , what apparently the invulnerability the cat , shot at in apartment no.50 no.50 no.50 , during the attempt to put him under arrest .
 There cat on the chandelier , naturally the , no been , nor anyone even had thought returning their aiming , shooters aiming at an empty spot , while while Koroviev , having suggested that cat acting on the chandelier , was free to stand behind backs shooters , mugging and enjoying his enormous , albeit enormous criminally employed , capacity for suggestion .
 he who , of course , had set the apartment by spilling benzene .
 to any Yalta , of course , Styopa Likhodeev never gone he ( such was beyond powers even Koroviev 's ) , telegrams from there any sent .
 After fainting in jeweller 's 's apartment , frightened a trick of Koroviev , who shown him a cat holding pickled mushroom mushroom on fork , he lay there until , until Koroviev , jeering him , capped at him a shaggy shaggy hat and sent him to the Moscow airport , having suggested first to meet Styopa to the representatives investigation that Styopa would be getting off the plane from Sebastopol .
 True , the investigation department Yalta maintained , that they received the barefoot Styopa and telegrams concerning Styopa to Moscow sent , but no copies of these telegrams in the files no were found , from which was drawn the sad absolutely but absolutely invincible conclusion that that the hypnotizing gang was able to hypnotize at an enormous distance , and not only individual persons but but even whole of groups them .
 Under these circumstances the criminals were able to drive out minds people of sturdiest sturdiest psychic make-up .
 To say of such trifles as pack of cards in the pocket of stalls in stalls , or disappearing women 's dresses , or miaowing beret other things of that sort !
 Such stunts can pulled by any professional hypnotist average ability , including including the uncomplicated tearing the head the master of ceremonies .
 The talking cat also sheer nonsense . To to present people such a cat , enough have a the basic principles of ventriloquism , and scarcely scarcely anyone will doubt that art Koroviev was went significantly significantly beyond those principles .
 Yes , the here lay all not in packs , false letters in briefcase Nikanor Ivanovich !
 These were all trifles !
 It was he , Koroviev , who sent under tram-car Berlioz to certain death . It he driven crazy the poor poet Ivan Homeless , he made him crazy visions , have see in tormenting dreams ancient Yershalaim and sun-scorched sun-scorched waterless Bald Mountain with three hanging on men posts .
 It he and his gang who had made disappear from Moscow Margarita Nikolaevna and her housekeeper Natasha .
 Incidentally , this matter the investigation considered special attention . It had to find out if been had abducted the two women gang of murderers and arsonists or had fled with with the criminal company voluntarily .
 On the basis of absurd and incoherent evidence of Nikolai Ivanovich and the considering the strange and incoherent insane Margarita Nikolaevna , husband , the note in which she wrote that she gone a witch , as the circumstance that Natasha had disappeared leaving all her clothes clothes behind , the investigation concluded that that both mistress and her housekeeper had been hypnotized , like many others , and thus abducted the band .
 There emerged also probably quite quite the correct thought that that the criminals been by the beauty of the two women .
 Yet Yet what remained completely unclear to the investigation was the in abducting mental patient who called himself the master from psychiatric the clinic .
 This they establishing never succeeded , nor succeed obtaining 's last name abducted the man .
 Thus Thus vanished he for ever under the dead alias number one-eighteen from first building .
 And so , almost everything was explained , and the came end investigation , as generally everything comes end .
 passed Several years , and the citizens began to forget Woland , , Koroviev and and the rest .
 took place Many changes in lives those of who suffered from Woland and his company , and however are trifling and insignificant those changes , still ought they be noted .
 Georges , instance Bengalsky , spending in clinic three months , recovered and left , but work at the Variety had his give , and that at the hottest time , when the public was flocking after tickets : memory of the black magic and its exposure proved very tenacious .
 Bengalsky left Bengalsky Variety , for he understood that to appear every night before two thousand people , be inevitably recognized and endlessly subjected questions of it how he better , with head or without his was too painful .
 And , besides that , the had lost master of ceremonies a considerable dose his gaiety , which so is necessary in his profession .
 remained with He unpleasant , burdensome habit every the spring during full anxiety falling into of anxiety state , suddenly clutching his neck , fearfully clutching looking and weeping .
 These fits These pass , but all same since , them former occupation could not continue , , and so the master he retired in and started living on his savings , which , by his modest reckoning , to were enough last him fifteen years .
 He left and never again never met Varenukha , who gained universal popularity and affection by his incredible even among theatre administrators administrators , responsiveness and politeness .
 The free-pass seekers , for instance , him otherwise never refer to than as free-pass father-benefactor .
 at any time One can call the Variety Varenukha and always hear in the receiver a soft but but soft sad voice : ` I help you ' And to request that be called to the phone Varenukha , the same voice to hastens answer : 'At 'At 'At your service ' .
 And oh , has suffered how Ivan Savelyevich from his own politeness !
 Styopa Likhodeev more no was talk over the phone at the Variety .
 Immediately after release from the clinic , where where Styopa spent eight days , was transferred to Rostov , he taking the position of manager large food of store .
 has Rumour it that he has stopped drinking cheap wine and drinks only vodka , with blackcurrant buds , which his .
 They say has he become taciturn and keeps away from women .
 The removal of Stepan Bogdanovich from the Variety not did bring Rimsky the joy of of which he so greedily been dreaming over the past several years .
 After clinic and Kislovodsk , old old , , his wagging head wagging , the findirector submitted a request to be dismissed from the Variety .
 The interesting was that this request was brought by to Variety 's wife Rimsky . himself Grigory Grigory Danilovich beyond found it his strength even daytime to visit the building , where had seen he the cracked with moonlight cracked flooded window-pane window-pane and the long arm making its way to the lower latch .
 Having left the Variety , the findirector took a with theatre children 's marionette in Zamoskvorechye .
 In this theatre he longer no had to run on matters of acoustics into much-esteemed Arkady Apollonovich Semplevarov . The promptly transferred to Briansk and appointed manager mushroom cannery of cannery .
 The now Muscovites salted mushrooms and pickled and not praise rejoice them and exceedingly they this transfer .
 Since it is bygone , may say that never they 's Arkady Apollonovich relations with acoustics , and as how had worked tried he improve them , they been , so remained .
 Among persons who have broken with the theatre , apart Arkady Apollonovich , should be of Nikanor Ivanovich Bosoy , though he had been no other connected his with the theatre , than love for free tickets .
 Nikanor Ivanovich not only no goes to of theatre either free , paying , but even changes countenance at any theatrical conversation .
 to not a lesser a , but to greater degree to hate he , Besides theatre , poet Pushkin and the talented actor Sawa Potapovich Kurolesov .
 The to such degree a that last year , seeing in the newspaper black-framed black-framed a announcement that that Sawa Potapovich in full bloom of his career suffered a stroke , Nikanor Ivanovich turned purple almost that he followed after Sawa Potapovich , and bellowed : ` Serves him right ! '
 Moreover Moreover , that same evening Nikanor Ivanovich , in whom death popular the actor evoked a great many painful memories , alone , in company sole of the full moon shining Sadovaya , got drunk terribly .
 And with each drink got the cursed line of hateful figures , and were in this line Dunchil Sergei Gerardovich , and beautiful Ida Herculanovna , and that red-haired owner of fighting geese , and candid Kanavkin Nikolai .
 Well , and what earth happened them ?
 Good heavens !
 Precisely nothing to them happened existed , since actually happen never , certainly Precisely never existed they as that affable artiste , master , nor itself theatre , nor that old pinchfist pinchfist Porokhovnikova pinchfist aunt , who rotting currency rotting in the cellar , and golden trumpets no were or impudent cooks .
 All this merely dreamed Nikanor Koroviev Ivanovich under influence of the nasty Koroviev .
 The only living person to fly into this dream , precisely precisely was Sawa Potapovich Ivanovich actor , and got mixed up he in it only because he in memory Nikanor Ivanovich 's owing his to frequent performances on radio . He existed , but the rest not did .
 So , maybe , not exist maybe Aloisy Mogarych ? Oh , no !
 He not only existed , but even now exists , and precisely in the post up given by Rimsky , that is the post findirector of Variety .
 Coming his senses , about twenty-four hours after his visit to Woland Vyatka , on a train somewhere near Vyatka , Aloisy realized some that that , having in darkened senses mind for left Moscow , he forgotten put on trousers , but unknown purpose stolen an completely useless the household register the builder .
 Paying a colossal of money to the conductor , , Aloisy acquired from him an old and greasy pair of pants and in Vyatka he turned back .
 But little house the builder he , alas , not did find .
 The trash decrepit been licked clean by a fire .
 But Aloisy was man an extremely enterprising enterprising . later Two weeks he was living in splendid a room on Briusovsky Lane , and a few months was sitting in 's office Rimsky .
 And as once Rimsky had suffered because of Styopa , so now Varenukha was tormented because of Aloisy .
 's is Ivan Savelyevich only that this Aloisy be removed somewhere out sight , because because , as whispers sometimes Varenukha in intimate company , 'such 'such scum , as this Aloisy Aloisy he supposedly has never in life and supposedly from this Aloisy he expects anything expects like ' .
 However the , perhaps , administrator is prejudiced . any shady business for Aloisy not known , or all any business , unless we count of course appointing to replace the barman Sokov someone else . Andrei For Fokich died of liver cancer in the clinic the First MSU months some ten months after 's appearance Woland 's in Moscow .
 Yes , have passed several years , and healed truthfully described in this book the events and healed faded from memory .
 But not for everyone , not for everyone .
 Each year , with the festal spring , towards moon evening appears under lindens at the 's Ponds man of about thirty or thirty-odd . A reddish-haired , reddish-haired green-eyed , modestly dressed man . He is a researcher at the Institute History and Philosophy , Professor Ivan Nikolaevich Ponyrev .
 Coming under lindens , he he always sits down on same the bench on which sat that evening , when long forgotten by all Berlioz for last time in his life saw breaking to the the moon .
 Whole now it the start the evening white , then gold , with a dark horse-dragon , floats over former the poet Ivan Nikolaevich and at the same time stays in place at its height .
 Ivan Nikolaevich everything , he everything knows and understands .
 He knows that that as a young man he fell victim to criminal hypnotists hypnotists and was cured afterwards and and cured .
 But knows he also that that things he manage not can .
 not can He manage this spring full .
 As soon as it begins to , as as begins swell and fill five-branched gold luminary candlesticks that once hung than higher two five-branched candlesticks , becomes Ivan Nikolaevich anxious , nervous , loses appetite and , waiting till ripens the moon .
 And when the comes full , nothing can keep Ivan Nikolaevich home .
 Towards evening he goes and walks to the Patriarch 's Ponds .
 Sitting on the , Ivan Nikolaevich openly talks himself to , smokes , squints now at the moon , now at memorable memorable turnstile .
 hour or two spends this Ivan Nikolaevich .
 Then he leaves his place and always following the same itinerary , through Spiridonovka , with empty and unseeing eyes goes to the Arbat lanes .
 He passes kerosene shop , turns , by lopsided old kerosene gaslight gaslight , and steals to a fence , behind which he sees a luxuriant , though yet unclothed unclothed garden , and in it moon-washed on the side , with the triple bay window and dark on the other Gothic mansion .
 The professor not does know what draws there him to the fence or who lives in the mansion , but does know that fighting himself with the of full no is .
 Besides Besides , he knows that that in garden behind the fence he inevitably will see one and the same .
 He will see sitting on a an and respectable man with beard , , wearing pince-nez and with pince-nez slightly piggish features bench .
 Ivan Nikolaevich always finds this resident of the mansion in one and the same dreamy pose , his eyes turned towards the moon . to Ivan Nikolaevich known is that , after admiring the moon , the seated unfailingly will turn gaze to the windows bay and fix on them , as if expecting that that presently they be flung open and would appear on the window-sill something extraordinary .
 The whole sequel Ivan Nikolaevich knows by heart .
 Here must he deeper bury himself behind the fence , for presently seated will begin restlessly turn head , wandering gaze snatch something in the air gaze , suddenly restlessly rapturously smile , and then he he presently clasp hands in a sort of sweet anguish , and then simply and rather loudly will murmur : 'Venus 'Venus !
 Venus ! ...
 Ah I , fool am ! ...
 'Gods 'Gods , gods ! will begin whisper Ivan Nikolaevich , hiding behind the fence and never taking his kindling eyes off mysterious stranger . 'Here is more one victims the moon ...
 Yes , more one victim , like ... me ... '
 And seated will the go talking :
 'Ah 'Ah that I , fool ! Why , why I fly off with her ?
 What you afraid of , old ass ?
 Got a !
 Ah , suffer now , you old cretin !
 It will go this until , until a bangs in the dark part the mansion , appears in it something whitish and unpleasant an female voice :
 'Nikolai 'Nikolai Ivanovich , where you ?
 What this is fantasy ?
 Want to catch malaria ?
 Come and tea ! '
 Here , of course , the seated recover and reply in voice senses a lying : ' breath of air , a of air wanted , dearest dearest !
 The air is so nice ! '
 And here he get up from the bench , sly shake closing the ground-floor sly window , and trudge to the house .
 'Lying 'Lying he , lying !
 Oh , gods , how he 's lying ! mutters leaves the fence Ivan Nikolaevich . 'It 's not the air that draws him to garden , he something sees at this full moon , in garden , the there !
 Ah , dearly I pay to penetrate his mystery , to know that who this Venus he lost and now fruitlessly feels in the air , catch her !
 And returns home professor completely completely the ill .
 His wife pretends not to notice his condition and and urges him to go to bed .
 But herself she not does go to and sits by the lamp with a book , looking grieving eyes at the sleeper .
 She knows that that at dawn Ivan Nikolaevich wake up with painful a cry , will begin weep and thrash .
 Therefore there lies before her on tablecloth under the lamp , a syringe in alcohol and ampoule the liquid dark of tea colour .
 The poor woman , tied to gravely ill man , now is free and without apprehensions can sleep .
 Ivan Nikolaevich , will sleep till morning with a blissful face having unknown her , sublime and blissful dreams .
 It is the scholar and awakens draws him from pitiful cries the night of full one and the same . He sees some unnatural unnatural , noseless executioner , who who , leaping up and somehow hooting with voice , sticks his spear into the heart tied to is a post and gone insane of Gestas .
 But not so frightening executioner is the unnatural lighting in , caused heaving by some dark cloud who boiling and heaving itself upon the earth , as happens only during during world catastrophes . After the injection everything , changes before the sleeping man .
 from his bed to the window stretches A broad moonlight path , and to this path a man in a white cloak with blood-red lining and begins to walk towards the moon .
 Beside Beside him walks a young man in torn disfigured chiton and with a disfigured face .
 The walkers about something talk walkers , they argue , they want reach understanding .
 ` 'Gods , gods ! says , turning haughty face to his haughty companion . that man in cloak . ` Such a banal banal execution !
 But the me , please imploring , ` here face from haughty turns to haughty imploring , ` tell it never happened !
 I implore you it , implore tell me , never happened ? '
 'Well 'Well , of course never happened , replies a hoarse voice companion , 'you 'you it imagined . '
 'And 'And you can swear me to it ? ' the ingratiatingly asks man in cloak .
 ` I it ! ` swear replies his companion , and eyes his for some reason smile .
 ' I nothing more need ! ' husky in voice exclaims man in cloak and goes ever higher towards the moon , drawing his companion .
 Behind them walks a , gigantic gigantic sharp-eared dog .
 Then the moonbeam moonbeam boils , from it begins gush a moonlight river and pours out in all directions .
 The moon rules and plays , the moon dances and frolics .
 Then in the stream forms herself boundless beauty woman and leads out to Ivan the hand a fearfully overgrown who with beard man .
 Ivan Nikolaevich once recognizes him . It number one-eighteen one-eighteen , his nocturnal guest . Ivan Nikolaevich In his dream reaches his to him arms and greedily asks : 'So 'So it that ended with ?
 'It that ended with , my disciple , ' answers number one-eighteen one-eighteen , and woman comes up to Ivan and says :
 'Of 'Of course with , that .
 Everything has ended and everything ends ... ... And I you kiss the forehead , , and everything with you will as it be ...
 She bends over Ivan and kisses him the forehead , , and Ivan reaches out to her and peers into her forehead eyes , but she retreats , retreats and goes together with her companion towards the moon ...
 Then the moon begins rage , it pours streams light right on Ivan , it sprays engulfs light in all directions , the room engulfs moonlight moonlight , light heaves , rises higher , drowns bed .
 It is then that sleeps Ivan Nikolaevich with a blissful face .
 The morning he wakes silent but perfecdy calm and well .
 His needled memory grows quiet , and until the next full professor no will trouble one - neither the noseless killer of Gestas , nor the cruel fifth procurator Judea the Pontius Pilate .
