Anna Karenina
Tolstoy Lev Nikolaevich
I will refuse and I will give up.
Part 1
All happy families are like each other, each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
Everything was mixed in the house of Oblonsky.
The woman learned that her husband was in connection with the former French governor in their house, and announced to her husband that she could not live with him in one house.
This situation continued for the third day and it was painful to both the spouses themselves, all the members of the family, and the households.
All members of the family and households felt that there was no sense in their cohabitation and that in each permanent hall the people who were coincidentally gathered were more connected to each other than they, members of the family and households of Oblonsky.
The wife did not leave their rooms, and the husband was not at home on the third day. The children were running around the house as lost; the English woman was struggling with the economist and wrote a note to her friend, asking her to find a new place; the cook left the courtyard yesterday, during lunch; the black cook and the dog asked for a bill.
On the third day after the dispute, Prince Stepan Arkadic Oblonsky -- Steve, as he was called in the light, -- at the usual hour, that is, at eight in the morning, woke up not in his wife's bedroom, but in his office, on a saffian sofa.
He turned his full, heated body on the couch of the sofa, as if he wanted to fall asleep again for a long time, on the other side he strongly hugged the bowl and pressed it with a hole; but suddenly he jumped up, sat on the sofa and opened his eyes.
“Yes, yes, how was it? He thought, remembering the dream. Yes, how was it?
Yes!
Alabin gave lunch in Darmstadt; no, not in Darmstadt, but something American.
But there Darmstadt was in America.
Yes, Alabine gave lunch on the glass tables, yes, and the tables sang: Il mio tesoro, and not Il mio tesoro, but something better, and some little graffiti, and they are the same women," he recalled.
The eyes of Stepan Arkadić glowed joyfully, and he thought, smiling.
“Yes, it was good, it was very good.
There was still a lot of great, not to say with words and thoughts, not to express even the appearance.”
And, having noticed the strip of light breaking on the side of one of the jackets, he joyfully pulled his legs out of the sofa, found them shitted by his wife (a gift for his birthday last year), made in golden saffian shoes and according to the old, nine-year-old habit, not standing up, stretched his hand to the place where in the bedroom he had a dress hanging.
And here he suddenly remembered how and why he slept not in his wife's bedroom, but in the office; a smile disappeared from his face, he smashed his forehead.
Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! “Aaa!” He closed, remembering everything that was.
And his imagination was presented again all the details of the dispute with his wife, all the irresistibleness of his position, and most tortuously his own guilt.
“Yes! He can’t forgive and cannot forgive.
And the worst thing is that I am guilty of everything, I am guilty of it, not guilty of it.
That’s all the drama, he thought. Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! He condemned with despair, remembering the hardest impressions of this dispute.
The most unpleasant was that first minute when he, returning from the theater, joyful and pleased, with a huge grace for his wife in his hand, did not find his wife in the living room; to surprise, he did not find her in the office, and finally saw her in the bedroom with unhappy, opening everything, a note in his hand.
She, that eternally concerned, and troubled, and far away, as he thought, Dolly, sat down with a note in her hand and looked at him with an expression of horror, despair and anger.
What is it? This is? She asked, indicating the note.
And with this memory, as it often happens, Stepan Arkadić suffered not as much an event as how he replied to the words of his wife.
It happened to him at that moment what happens to people when they are suddenly stuck in something too shy. He was unable to prepare his face for the position in which he stood before his wife after his fault was revealed.
Instead of being insulted, denied, justified, asking for forgiveness, even being indifferent, everything would be better than he did! - his face completely unwillingly (the brain reflections), - thought Stephan Arkadić, who loved physiology), completely unwillingly suddenly smiled with a usual, good, and therefore stupid smile.
That stupid smile he could not forgive himself.
Seeing that smile, Dolly wiped out, as from physical pain, wiped out, with her own heat, a stream of cruel words, and escaped out of the room.
Since then she did not want to see her husband.
“It’s all the fault this stupid smile,” Stepan Arkadić thought.
“But what to do? What to do?” He spoke to himself with despair and found no answer.
Stephan Arkadić was a man who was true to himself.
He couldn’t cheat himself and convince himself that he was scared in his actions.
He could no longer regret that he, a thirty-four-year-old, beautiful, loving man, was not in love with his wife, the mother of five alive and two dead children, who were only a year younger than him.
He scared only in the fact that he could not better hide from his wife.
But he felt all the severity of his situation and regretted his wife, children and himself.
Per he would better be able to hide his sins from his wife if he expected that this news would work so on her.
Clearly he never thought about this question, but it was shameful for him that his wife has long realized that he was not faithful to her, and looks at it through her fingers.
It even seemed to him that she, an exhausted, stumbled, an unpleasant woman and no wonder, simple, just a good mother of the family, should be humiliating in the sense of justice.
It turned quite contrary.
“Ah, it is terrible! Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! It is terrible! Stephan Arkadic insisted and could not invent anything. And how good it was before we lived!
She was pleased, participating with the children, I didn’t interfere with her in anything, allowed her to drive with the children, with the farm as she wanted.
It was unfortunate that she was a governor in our house.
Not good!
There is something trivial, going to take care of his governor. What a governor!
(He lively remembered the black Pluto eyes of M-lle Roland and her smile.)
But as long as she was with us in the house, I didn’t allow myself anything.
The worst thing is that she is already...
It must be all intentionally!
Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! Ah Ah Ah!
But what, what to do?”
There was no answer, except the general answer that gives life to all the most complex and unresolved questions.
The answer is: you have to live with the needs of the day, that is, to forget.
It is no longer possible to forget the sleep, at least until the night, it is no longer possible to return to the music singed by the graphic women; it has become necessary to forget the dream of life.
“There will be visible,” said Stephan Arkadić and, standing up, wearing a gray dress on a blue silk coat, throwing the cysts with a nod and, delightedly taking the air into his wide chest box, the usual bitter step of the pulled legs, so easily wearing his full body, approached the window, lifted the stool and loudly called.
At the call immediately came an old friend, the camardiner Matthew, wearing clothes, socks and telegram.
Following Matthew, a cylinder with accessories for braking came in.
Are there papers from the presence? Stephan Arkadić asked, taking the telegram and sitting at the mirror.
— On the table — answered Matthew, looked questioningly, with participation, at the bar and, waiting a little, added with a clever smile: — From the owner of the carrier came.
Stephan Arkadić did not answer anything and only looked at Matthew in the mirror; in the sight they met in the mirror, it was visible how they understand each other.
Stephan Arkadic’s sight was like asking, “Why do you say this? Do you not know?”
Matthew put his hands in the pockets of his jacket, put his foot and silently, gently, a little smiling, looked at his bar.
“I ordered you to come on that Sunday, and until that time, so that you should not be troubled, and I will be empty,” he said, apparently, a prepared phrase.
Stephan Arkadić realized that Matthew wanted to fool and pay attention to himself.
Having broken the telegram, he read it, guessing correcting the wounded words, as usual, and his face glowed.
“Matthew, the sister of Anna Arkadievna will be tomorrow,” he said, stopping for a minute the brilliant, bull hand of the cylinder, which cleansed the pink road between the long curved bakebards.
- Thank God, - said Matthew, with this answer showing that he understands the importance of this arrival just like Barin, that is, that Anna Arkadievna, the beloved sister of Stephan Arkadievna, can contribute to the reconciliation of his husband and his wife.
Together or with the spouse? He asked Matthew.
Stephan Arkadić could not speak, as the circle was busy with the upper lips, and he raised one finger. Matthew threw his head into the mirror.
One of them.
Up to prepare?
Dario Alexandrovne indicates where they will order.
Darjee Alexandrovne? Matthew repeated with doubt.
Yes to report.
Take the telegram and tell them what they will say.
“You want to try,” Matthew understood, but he said only:
I listen to S. Stephan Arkadić was already washed and scratched and clothed up when Matthew, slowly stepping with scratching shoes, with a telegram in his hand, returned to the room.
There was no circle anymore.
Darya Alexandrovna was ordered to report that they were leaving.
Let them do as they do, that is, you want," he said, laughing only with his eyes, and, putting his hands in the pockets and laying his head to the side, put himself on the bar.
Stephan Arkadic was silent. Then a good and somewhat sad smile appeared on his beautiful face.
A? The Matthew? He said, lifting his head.
“Nothing, strike, is formed,” Matthew said.
is formed?
So exactly s.
Do you think? Who is there? Stephan Arkadić asked, hearing the noise of a woman’s dress behind the door.
“This is I,” said a strong and pleasant woman’s voice, and the strict sharp face of Matrina Filimonovna, the grandfather, came out of the door.
What about Matrix? Stephan Arkadic asked, coming out to her door.
Despite the fact that Stephan Arkadić was a circle of guilt in front of his wife and he himself felt that, almost everyone in the house, even the grandfather, the main friend of Daria Alexandrovna, was on his side.
Well what? He said he was bored.
You go down, strike, obey again.
God will give.
They are very suffering, and seeing the regrets, and everything in the house has gone.
Children, you have to regret.
Sorry to strike. What to do!
I love to ride...
He will not accept...
And you do yours.
God is merciful, pray to God, strike, pray to God.
“Well, well, step,” said Stephan Arkadić, suddenly reddening. “Well, let you dress up,” he turned to Matthew and decidedly dropped the dress.
Matthew had already, swallowing something invisible, a home-made shirt and with obvious pleasure dressed in it a cool body of barin.
III
Dressing, Stephan Arcadić jumped on himself with spirits, lifted the gloves of the shirts, by a usual movement dissipated on the pockets of the papyruses, the paperbook, the spikes, the clocks with a double chain and the bricks and, throwing the plate, feeling clean, soulful, healthy and physically fun, despite his misfortune, went out, slightly swallowing on every leg, to the dining room, where he had already been waiting for his coffee and, next to the coffee, letters and papers from the presence.
He read the letters.
One thing was very unpleasant — from a merchant who bought the forest in the possession of his wife.
This forest had to be sold; but now, before reconciliation with the wife, it could not be about it.
Even more unpleasant here was that this mixed monetary interest in the upcoming matter of his reconciliation with his wife.
And the thought that he could be guided by this interest, that he would seek reconciliation with his wife for the sale of this forest, this thought insulted him.
After completing the letters, Stephan Arkadić brought to himself the papers from the presence, quickly listed two affairs, made a few notes with the big pen and, with the affairs, took the coffee; after the coffee, he opened another raw morning newspaper and began to read it.
Stephan Arkadić received and read the liberal newspaper, not the extreme, but the direction that the majority held.
And despite the fact that neither science nor art nor politics were in fact interested in him, he firmly held those views on all these subjects that the majority and his newspaper held, and modified them only when the majority modified them, or, better say, not modified them, and they themselves in it unseenly changed.
Stephan Arkadić didn’t choose any directions or views, and these directions and views themselves came to him, just as he didn’t choose the shapes or the shapes, but took the ones they wear.
And having views to him, who lived in a well-known society, with the need for some activity of thought that normally develops in the summer of maturity, was as necessary as having a hat.
If there was a reason why he preferred the liberal direction to the conservative, which many of his circles also held, it did not happen because he found the liberal direction more reasonable, but because it approached closer to his way of life.
The Liberal Party said that in Russia everything was bad, and indeed, Stephan Arkadić had a lot of debt, and the money was decisively lacking.
The Liberal Party said that marriage is a living institution and that it is necessary to rebuild it, and indeed, family life brought little pleasure to Stepan Arkadić and forced him to lie and pretend that it was so contrary to his nature.
The Liberal Party spoke, or, better, supposed that religion is only a hostage for the barbaric part of the population, and indeed, Stephan Arkadić could not bear without pain in the feet even a short prayer and could not understand what all these terrible and high-pared words about the world, when it would be very fun to live on it.
So, the liberal direction became the habit of Stephan Arkadić, and he loved his newspaper, like a cigarette after lunch, for the light cloud that she produced in his head.
He read the guiding article, in which it was explained that in our time there is an entirely irresistible ralliance of the fact that radicalism threatens to absorb all the conservative elements and that the government is obliged to take measures to suppress the revolutionary hydra, which, on the contrary, "in our opinion, the danger lies not in the imaginary revolutionary hydra, but in the persistence of the tradition that hinderes progress" etc.
He also read another article, financial, in which he mentioned the Bentham and Mille and submitted thin spikes to the ministry.
With his own speed of consideration, he understood the meaning of every spike: from whom and to whom and in what case it was directed, and this, as always, gave him some pleasure.
But today the pleasure was poisoned by the remembrance of the advice of Matrina Filimonovna and the fact that it was so unfavourable in the house.
He also read that Count Beist, as he heard, went to Visbaden, and that there was no more seated hair, and the sale of a light car, and the offer of a young person; but this information did not give him, as before, a quiet, ironic pleasure.
Having finished the newspaper, the second cup of coffee and the cabbage with oil, he stood up, scratched the pieces of the cabbage from the jacket, and, dispersing the wide chest, he smiled joyfully, not because he had something pleasant on his soul - a joyful smile caused by good digestion.
But that joyful smile now reminded him of everything, and he thought.
Two children’s voices (Stepan Arkadić knew the voices of Grisha, the younger boy, and Tani, the older girl) were heard behind the door.
They caught and destroyed something.
“I said you can’t put passengers on the roof,” the girl cried in English.
“Everything was mixed,” Stepan Arkadić thought, “the children run alone.” And when he came to the door, he clicked on them.
They thrown out the box representing the train and entered the father.
The girl, the father's favorite, fled boldly, hugged him and, laughing, lifted him on his neck, as always, rejoicing with the familiar smell of the spirits that spread from his backenbard.
After kissing him, finally, in the red of the inclined position and brightly glowing face, the girl stretched her hands and wanted to run back; but the father kept her.
What is Mom? He asked, with his hand on the smooth, gentle neck of his daughter. “Hello,” he said, smiling to the healthy boy.
He realized that he loved the boy less, and always tried to be equal; but the boy felt that and did not respond with a smile to his father’s cold smile.
The mom?
He got up, the girl answered.
Stephan Arkadic breathed. “So I didn’t sleep all night again,” he thought.
Is she fun?
The girl knew that there was a dispute between the father and the mother, and that the mother could not be happy, and that the father should know that, and that he pretends asking about it so easily. She was red for her father.
He immediately realized that and also turned red.
“I don’t know,” she said. She didn’t tell her to study, but she told her to walk with Miss Gull to her grandmother.
Go, my dancer.
Oh yeah, stand,” he said, still holding her and hunging her gentle hand.
He came from the fire. Where he put yesterday, a box of sweets and gave it two, choosing her favourite, chocolate and sweets.
and Greece? The girl said, indicating the chocolate.
Yes yes. And once again, glating her shoulder, he kissed her in the root of her hair, in the neck, and released her.
“The car is ready,” Matthew said. “Yes the prayer,” he added.
A long time here? Asked by Stepan Arkadić.
from half an hour.
How many times you have been told to report now!
“We’ve got to give you some coffee to eat,” Matthew said in a friendly, brutal tone that you could not be angry.
- Well, ask for faster, - said Oblonsky, turning out of the asset.
The prayer, Kalinina's headquarters, asked for the impossible and untouchable; but Stephan Arkadić, according to his habit, placed her, carefully, without interrupting, listened to her and gave her a detailed advice, to whom and how to contact, and even boycottly and hardly with his large, stretched, beautiful and clear post, wrote her a note to the face that could help her.
Leaving the headquarters. Stephan Arkadić took his hat and stopped, reminding that he had not forgotten anything.
It turned out that he didn’t forget anything but what he wanted to forget – his wife.
“Ah yeah!”
He dropped his head, and his beautiful face took a tightening expression.
“Go or not go?” He spoke to himself. And the inner voice told him that walking is not suitable, that, except the false, there can be nothing, that it is impossible to fix, to fix their relationship, because it is impossible to make it again attractive and exciting love, or to make it old, unable to love.
Except the false and the lies, nothing could come out now; but the false and the lies were contrary to his nature.
“But it’s ever needed, because it can’t stay so,” he said, trying to give himself courage.
He stretched his chest, pulled out the papyrus, smoked, swallowed twice, throwed it into the perlamutrous sandwich, quickly passed through the dark living room and opened another door, to the wife's bedroom.
Darya Alexandrovna, in a cofflet and with the hair already rare, once thick and beautiful hair, with a blurred, weak face and big, out of the skin of the face, scared eyes, stood among the things thrown out in the room in front of an open shephonier, from which she chose something.
Hearing her husband’s steps, she stopped looking at the door and stupidly trying to give her face a strict and neglected expression.
She felt that she was afraid of him and afraid of the coming date.
She just tried to do what she tried to do for the tenth time in these three days: to pick up the children’s and her things that she would bring to her mother — and again she couldn’t decide on it; but now, as in the previous time, she told herself that it couldn’t stay so that she had to do something, punish him, shame him, revenge him at least a small part of the pain he had done to her. She still said she would leave him, but she felt that it was impossible; it was impossible because she couldn’t get used to consider him her husband and love him.
In addition, she felt that if here, in her house, she hardly managed to take care of her five children, it would be even worse for them where she would go with them all.
And then in these three days the minor was sick because he was fed with a bad bull, and the rest were almost without lunch yesterday. She felt it was impossible to leave; but, fooling herself, she still picked up things and pretended she would go.
When she saw her husband, she laid her hand into the box, as if she was looking for something, and looked at him only when he was very close to her.
But her face, to which she wanted to give a strict and determined expression, expressed loss and suffering.
-Dolly! - he said with a quiet, stupid voice. He pulled his head into his shoulders and wanted to have a sad and obedient look, but he still glowed with freshness and health.
She quickly looked from the head to the feet to his glowing freshness and health figure.
“Yes, he’s happy and happy,” she thought, “and I?”The!
And this kindness is contrary, for which everyone loves and praises him so much; I hate this kindness," she thought.
Her mouth was compressed, the muscle of the sheep stumbled on the right side of the blind, nervous face.
What do you need? She said quickly, not with her own, breast voice.
The Dolly! He repeated with a rush in his voice. Anna will come today.
What about me?
I can’t accept her! She screamed.
But we need to do it, Dolly.
Go, go and go! Without looking at him, she screamed as if this scream was caused by physical pain.
Stephan Arkadić could be calm when he thought of his wife, he could hope that everything will form, according to Matthew’s expression, and he could calmly read the newspaper and drink coffee; but when he saw her tortured, suffering face, he heard that sound of voice, obedient to destiny and desperate, he took a breath, something came to his throat, and his eyes glowed with tears.
My God, what I did!
The Dolly!
For the God!
After all, he couldn’t continue, the cry stopped in his throat.
She caught the shepherd and looked at him.
Dolly, what can I say?
One thing: forgive, forgive...
Remember, nine years of life can’t save minutes or minutes.
She dropped her eyes and listened, waiting for him to say it, as if he was asking him to tell her somehow.
- Minutes... minutes of enthusiasm... - he spoke and wanted to continue, but at the same time, as if from physical pain, her lips were pushed again and again jumped the muscle of the shell on the right side of her face.
Go out, go out here! She cried even more, and don’t tell me about your enthusiasm, about your madness.
She wanted to leave, but she swallowed and took the back of the chair to climb.
His face was widespread, his lips broken, his eyes drowned with tears.
The Dolly! He has spoken, he has already swallowed. For the sake of God, think about the children, they are not guilty.
I am guilty, and punish me, tell me to repent my guilt.
As I can, I’m ready!
I am guilty, there are no words to say how I am guilty!
But Dolly, forgive me!
She sat. He heard her heavy, loud breath, and he was inexpressively sorry for her.
She wanted to talk a few times, but she couldn’t.
He was waiting.
“You remember the children to play with them, but I remember and I know they’ve died now,” she said, apparently, one of the phrases she said to herself over the three days.
She told him “you,” and he looked at her with gratitude and touched to take her hand, but she with hatred turned away from him.
I remember the children, and therefore I would do everything in the world to save them; but I myself don’t know how I will save them: whether by bringing them from the father, or by leaving them with the deceased father, yes, with the deceased father.
Well, say, after... what happened, can we live together?
Is it possible?
Tell me, is it possible? She repeated, raising her voice. After my husband, the father of my children, is in love with the governor of their children.
But what to do? What to do? He spoke with a sad voice, unknowing what he spoke, and all down and down wiped his head.
- You are foolish to me, disgusting to me! - she screamed, getting more and more hot. Your tears are water!
You have never loved me; you have no heart or nobleness.
You are crazy to me, crazy, stranger, yes, stranger! She with pain and evil spoke this terrible word for herself.
He looked at her, and the anger that appeared on her face scared and surprised him.
He did not realize that his regret for her irritated her.
She saw in her regret, but not love.
“No, she hates me. She will not forgive,” he thought.
It is terrible! It was terrible! he spoke.
At that time in another room, probably falling, the child was screaming; Daria Alexandrovna listened, and her face suddenly calmed.
She seemed to remember a few seconds, as if she didn’t know where she was and what to do with her, and, quickly stood up, touched the door.
“But she loves my child,” he thought, noticing the change in her face when the child cries, “my child; how can she hate me?”
“Dolly, another word,” he spoke following her.
If you follow me, I will call people, children!
Let everyone know that you are a fool!
I'm leaving today and you live here with your girlfriend!
And she came out, knocking the door.
Stephan Arkadić breathed up, turning his face and with quiet steps went out of the room.
Matthew says: It is formed; but how?
I do not see any possibilities.
Oh yeah, what a horror!
And how trivially she was crying, he spoke to himself, remembering her cry and words: a sublime and a girlfriend. Maybe the girls have heard.
A terrible trivial, a terrible.”
Stephan Arkadić stood alone for a few seconds, opened his eyes, breathed and, stretching his chest, went out of the room.
It was Friday, and in the meal clock maker the Germans set the clock.
Stephan Arkadić recalled his joke about this careful plush clock that the German "was brought to his whole life to run the clock" - and smiled.
Stephan Arkadic loved a good joke.
And maybe it is formed!
A good word: it is formed, he thought. This must be told.”
“Matthew,” he cried, “this is how you are all there with Mary in the sofa for Anna Arkadievna,” he said to Matthew who appeared.
I listen to S.
Stephan Arkadić worn a hole and went out on the wing.
Are you going to eat at home? He told Matthew.
How will it be.
“Behold, take on the expenses,” he said, giving ten rubles from the paper. Will it be enough?
is enough. “It’s not enough, it’s necessary to go around,” Matthew said, knocking the door and going down on the wing.
Darya Alexandrovna, between that, calming the child and by the sound of the car, realizing that he was leaving, returned back to the bedroom. It was her only refuge from the domestic care that crossed her as soon as she went out.
Already and now, in that short time when she went out to the school, the English woman and Matrena Filimonovna managed to ask her a few questions that had not suffered the delay and which she alone could answer: what to wear to the children on the walk? Do I give milk? Should I send another cook?
Oh, leave me, leave me! She said, and, returning to the bedroom, she sat again at the same place where she spoke with her husband, pressing the weakened hands with the rings that came down from the bone fingers, and began to recall all the previous conversation.
“I have gone!
But what did he end with her? She thought. Does he see her?
Why did I not ask him?
No, no, we can’t get together.
If we stay in one house, we are strangers.
Always a stranger!” She repeated with a special meaning this terrible word for her. How I loved him, my God, how I loved him.
How I loved!
And now I don’t love him?
Not more than before, I love him?
It’s terrible, the most important thing, that’s...” she started, but didn’t finish her thought, because Matrena Filimonovna went out of the door.
“Behold, command the brother to send,” she said, “he will prepare all the meals; but on yesterday, until six o’clock, the children did not eat.”
Well, I’m going to go out and order.
Are you sending fresh milk?
And Darya Alexandrovna swallowed into the worries of the day and swallowed in them for a time of her mourning.
Stephan Arkadić in the school studied well thanks to his good abilities, but he was lazy and shalun and therefore came out of the latter; but despite his ever-going life, small acts and old years, he occupied the honorary and good complaint place of the boss in one of the Moscow presences.
This place he received through the husband of the sister Anna, Alexey Aleksandrovich Karenin, who occupied one of the most important places in the ministry to which the presence belonged; but if Karenin did not appoint his shurin to that place, then through a hundred other persons, brothers, sisters, relatives, twins, uncles, uncles, Steve Oblonsky would receive this place or other similar, thousands in six complaints that he needed, because of his actions. Despite the good condition of his wife, he was disappointed.
Half of Moscow and St. Petersburg were relatives and friends of Stepan Arkadić.
He was born in the midst of the people who were and became the strengths of this world.
One-third of the state people, the elderly, were his father’s friends and knew him in the shirt; the other-third were with him on “you”, and the third-third were good acquaintances; therefore, the distributors of land goods in the form of places, leases, concessions and so on were all his friends and could not circumvent his own; and the Oblonsky did not need to make a special effort to get a profitable place; it was only necessary not to refuse, not to jealous, not to dispute, not to offend, what he, by his own kindness, never did.
It would be ridiculous for him to be told that he would not get a place with the complaint he needed, even more that he did not demand anything extraordinary; he only wanted what his companions had received, and he could not be worse than anyone else.
Stephan Arkadić was not only loved by all who knew him for his good, joyful attitude and undoubted honesty, but in him, in his beautiful, bright face, bright eyes, black brushes, hair, white and pink face, there was something that physically acted friendly and fun to the people who met him.
“Aha!
Stay is! The Oblonsky!
Here is he!” He almost always spoke with a happy smile when he met him.
If it happened sometimes that after a conversation with him it turned out that nothing joyful happened — on the other day, on the third again exactly the same everyone was glad when he met him.
Taking the third year of the position of the chief of one of the places present in Moscow, Stepan Arkadić acquired, in addition to love, and the respect of his fellow servants, subordinates, bosses and all who had before him affairs.
The main qualities of Stepan Arkadić, which deserved this general respect for his service, consisted, first, in the extreme humility to the people, based in him on the consciousness of his shortcomings; second, in the perfect liberalism, not the one he read in the newspapers, but the one he had in his blood and with which he was entirely equal and equal to all the people, whatever state and title they were, and, third, the most important, in the entirely indifference to the thing he was doing, as a result of which he never intrigued and did no mistakes.
Arriving to the place of his service, Stephan Arkadić, provoked by a respectful Switzerland, went to his small office with a wallet, placed a monder and entered the presence.
Bishops and servants all stood up, fun and respectfully worshipped.
Stephan Arkadić quickly, as always, went to his place, grew his hands to the members and sat down.
He kissed and talked exactly how well it was, and began the lessons.
No one more faithful than Stepan Arkadić was able to find the boundary of freedom, simplicity and formality that is necessary for pleasant business.
The Secretary joyfully and respectfully, like everyone in the presence of Stepan Arkadić, came with the papers and spoke with the nominal-liberal tone that was introduced by Stepan Arkadić:
We got information from the Pennsylvania Governorate.
Well, it’s not okay...
Have you finally got? Stephan Arkadic spoke, putting a paper on his finger. And the presence has begun.
“If they were to know, he thought, with a substantial inclination of his head while hearing the report, what a guilty boy was their chairman half an hour ago!” And his eyes laughed when he read the report.
Before two hours of classes they had to go without a break, and at two hours - a break and breakfast.
There was not yet two hours when the large glass doors of the presence hall suddenly opened, and someone entered.
All the members of the portrait and of the mirror, rejoicing the entertainment, looked at the door; but the guard, who stood at the door, immediately thrown out the entering and closed the glass door behind him.
When the case was read, Stephan Arkadić stood, stretched, and, giving the gift of the liberalism of time, in the presence got a paperwork and went to his cabinet.
Two of his companions, the old servant Nikitin and the camera-yunker Grinevich, went out with him.
“After breakfast we can finish,” said Stepan Arkadić.
“How are we going to succeed!” said Nikitin.
“And the plain must be decent this Fomin,” Grinevich said about one of the persons who were involved in the case they discussed.
Stephan Arkadić murdered at Grinevich's words, making it feel that it's uncomfortable to make a judgment early, and he didn't answer anything to him.
Who was in? He asked the guard.
Someone, your superiority, without the demand of entrance, only I turned.
You were asked.
I say, when members come out, then...
Where is he?
Something came out in the Senna, and all went here.
“This one,” said the guard, pointing to a very complex large-fledged man with a chicken beard, who, without removing the barge of the hat, quickly and easily fled up on the stunned stairs of a stone staircase.
One of those who went down with the wallet, the artistic official, stopped, unacceptably looked at the foot of the runner and then questionfully looked at Oblonsky.
Stephan Arkadic stood above the staircase. His gently bright face, because of the shy mount, glowed even more when he noticed the escaped.
It is so!
Lewin is finally! He spoke with a friendly, laughing smile, looking at Levin who approached him. Why did you not rush to find me in this roof? - said Stephan Arkadić, not satisfied with his hand and kissing his friend. For a long time?
“I’ve come now, and I’d really like to see you,” Levin replied, shy and at the same time angry and anxiously looking around.
“Well, let’s go to the cabinet,” said Stephan Arkadić, who knew his friend’s self-loving and angry obsession; and, holding him for his hand, he pulled him for himself, as if he was going between the dangers.
Stephan Arkadić was on “you” with almost all of his acquaintances: with the elders of sixties years old, with the boys of twenty years old, with the actors, with the ministers, with the merchants and with the general-adjutants, so that many of those who were with him on “you” were on two extreme points of the public staircase and would be very surprised to find out that they have something in common through Oblonsky.
He was on “you” with everyone with whom he drank champagne, and he drank champagne with everyone, and therefore, in the presence of his subjects meeting with his embarrassed “you”, as he called the joke of many of his friends, he, with his own tact, knew how to reduce the discomfort of this impression for the subjects.
Levin wasn’t ashamed “you”, but Oblonsky with his touch felt that Levin thinks that he might not want to express his proximity to him before the subordinates, and therefore stumbled to bring him to the cabinet.
Levin was almost one year with Oblonsky and with him on “you” not a single champagne.
Levin was his friend and friend of his first youth. They loved each other, despite the differences in character and taste, as friends who met in their first youth love each other.
But despite how often it occurs among people who have chosen different kinds of activities, each of them, though, considering and justified the activity of another, in the soul denied it.
It seemed to everyone that the life he himself leads is one real life, and that the friend leads is only a ghost.
Oblonsky couldn't hold the light laughing smile with the sight of Levin.
Every time he saw him coming to Moscow from a village where he was doing something, but what exactly, that Stephan Arkadić could never understand well, and was not interested.
Levin came to Moscow always excited, hurry, slightly angry and irritated by this anger and mostly with a completely new, unexpected view of things.
Stephan Arkadic laughed on it and loved it.
Similarly, Levin in his soul denied the city way of life of his friend and his service, which he considered empty, and laughed at it.
But the difference was that Oblonsky, doing what everyone does, laughed self-confidently and kindly, and Levin was not self-confidently and sometimes angry.
“We’ve been waiting for you for a long time,” said Stepan Arkadić, entering the cabinet and throwing out Levin’s hand, as if this showed that the dangers had ended here. “It is a great pleasure to see you,” he continued. What are you?
How?
When did you come?
Levin was silent, looking at the unknown faces of the two companions of Oblonsky and especially the hand of the elegant Grinevich, with such white long fingers, with such long yellow fingers and such huge brilliant stickers on the jacket that these hands apparently absorbed all his attention and did not give him the freedom of thought.
Oblonsky immediately noticed it and smiled.
“Oh yeah, let me meet you,” he said. - My comrades: Philip Ivanic Nikitin, Mikhail Stanislavich Grinevich, - and addressed to Levin: - a terrestrial activist, a new terrestrial man, a gymnast lifting with one hand five pads, a livestock and a hunter and my friend, Konstantin Dmitrych Levin, the brother of Sergey Ivanic Koznysheva.
“It’s very nice,” said the old man.
“I have the honor to know your brother, Sergei Ivanic,” Grinevich said, giving his thin hand with his long nails.
Levin swallowed, coldly grew his hand and immediately turned to Oblonsky.
Although he had great respect for his famous all-Russia, one-born brother writer, he could not tolerate when he was treated not as Constantine Levin, but as the brother of the famous Koznyshev.
No, I am no longer a terrestrial activist. I’ve agreed with everyone and I’m not going to meet anymore,” he said, addressing Oblonsky.
Soon soon! - with a smile said Oblonsky. But how? Why from?
A long story. I’m going to tell you one day,” said Levin, but now I’m starting to tell you. “Well, shortly, I’ve been convinced that there’s no earth activity and it can’t be,” he said, as if someone now harassed him, “on the one hand, a toy, playing in parliament, and I’m neither young enough, nor old enough to have fun with the toys; and on the other hand, it’s a means for a loose coterie to get money...
Before there were guardians, courts, and now the land, not in the form of seizures, but in the form of an unworthy complaint, he spoke so hot as if one of the present had disputed his opinion.
The Ege!
“Yes, I see, again in the new phase, in the conservative,” said Stepan Arkadić. But after that, after that.
Yes after.
But I had to see you,” said Levin, with hatred looking into Grinevich’s hand.
Stephan Arkadic smiled slightly.
How did you say that you will never wear European clothes again? He said, looking at his new, obviously from the French port, dress. Yes yes! I see a new phase.
Levin suddenly reddened, but not as the adults redden — slightly, not noticing it themselves, but as the boys redden — feeling that they are ridiculous with their shyness, and consequently shy and redden even more, almost to tears.
And it was so strange to see this intelligent, courageous face in such a childhood that Oblonsky stopped looking at him.
Yes, where will we see you?
“I have a lot to talk to you,” said Levin.
Oblonsky seems to have thought:
Let’s go to Gurina for breakfast and talk there.
Within three I am free.
“No,” said Levin, “I still have to go.
Okay, so we eat together.
to lunch?
There’s nothing special for me, just two words to say, to ask, and then to throw.
Say two words and talk for lunch.
“There are two words,” said Levin, “but nothing special. His face suddenly took the evil expression that came from an effort to overcome his obscurity.
What do the shrbbs do?
Everything is old? He said.
Stephan Arkadić, who knew for a long time that Levin was in love with his son Kitty, smiled slightly, and his eyes glorified joyfully.
“You said two words, but I can’t answer in two words, because...
Sorry for a minute.
The secretary entered, with family honour and some, common to all the secretaries, with a modest consciousness of his superiority before the chief in the knowledge of the affairs, approached with the papers to Oblonsky and became, under the form of the question, to explain some difficulty.
Stephan Arkadić, not listening, gently placed his hand on the secretary's arms.
“No, you’re doing the way I said,” he said, smiling the comment, and, briefly explaining how he understood the matter, pulled out the papers and said, “Do so. Please yes, Sugar Nikitic.
The confused secretary went away.
Levin, during the meeting with the secretary, completely recovered from his trouble, stood, clothed with both hands on the chair, and on his face was a laughing attention.
“I don’t understand, I don’t understand,” he said.
What do you not understand? "It was also fun to smile and give a papyrus," Oblonsky said.
He was waiting for a strange outcome from Levin.
“I don’t understand what you’re doing,” said Levin, pressing his shoulders. How can you do it seriously?
Why to?
Because there is nothing to do.
You think so, but we are overwhelmed.
and paper.
Well, you have a gift to that, added Levin.
Do you think I have a lack of something?
“Maybe, and yes,” said Levin. But I still love your greatness and am proud that I have such a great friend.
But you didn’t answer me to my question, — he added, with desperate effort looking straight into the eyes of Oblonsky.
Well, well and well.
Take it again, and you will come to it.
Well, as you have three thousand dozen in Karazin, so muscles, so freshness as a twelve-year-old girl, and you will come to us.
Yes, so about what you asked: there’s no change, but I’m sorry that you haven’t been so long ago...
And what? She asked Levin frightened.
— No, — replied Oblonsky. We will talk.
Why did you actually come?
“Oh, we’ll talk about it later, again to the ears, red,” said Levin.
Well well well. Clearly, – said Stephan Arkadić. I would call you to me, but my wife is not healthier.
If you want to see them, they are probably now in the Zoo from four to five.
The chickens on the horses ride.
You’ll go there and I’ll go and eat somewhere together.
Beautiful before a date.
I know you, I know you, you’ll forget, or you’ll suddenly go to the village. - laughing, Stepan Arkadic screamed.
No, it is true. And, remembering that he forgot to worship the comrades of Oblonsky, only when he was already at the door, Levin went out of the cabinet.
“It must be, very energic gentleman,” Grinevich said when Levin went out.
“Yes, Daddy,” said Stephan Arkadić, climbing his head, “this is a happy man!
Three thousand dozen in Karazin, all ahead, and freshness how much!
Not our brother.
What do you complain, Stepan Arkadic?
“It’s bad, bad,” said Stepan Arkadić, hardly breathing.
When Oblonsky asked Levi's why he actually came, Levi's reddened and angry about himself because he couldn't answer him, "I came to make an offer for your son," though he came only for that.
The houses of Levin and Stirbatsky were the old noble Moscow houses and were always in close and friendly relationships.
This connection was further established during Levin's studenthood.
He prepared and entered the university together with the young prince Sherbatsky, the brother Dolly and Kitty.
At that time, Levin was often in the house of Scherbatsky and fell in love with the house of Scherbatsky.
As it may seem strange, but Konstantin Levin was in love with the house, the family, especially the female half of the Sherbacki family.
Levin himself did not remember his mother, and his only sister was older than him, so that he saw for the first time in the house of the Stirbatsky the same medium of the old noble, educated and honest family, to which he was deprived by the death of his father and mother.
All the members of this family, especially the female half, appeared to him covered with some mysterious, poetic curtain, and he not only did not see any disadvantages in them, but under that poetic curtain he covered supposed the highest feelings and all kinds of perfection.
For what these three bars had to speak a day in French and English; for what they played in some hours the conversions to the piano, whose sounds were always heard from her brother upward, where the students were engaged; for what these teachers of French literature, music, drawing, dancing traveled; for what in some hours all three bars with m-lle Linon came in the wheel to the Tver Boulevard in their atlas spots—Dolly in the long, Natalie in the half-long, and Kitty in the very short, so that her stain legs in the thumb on the scratched clothes were all in mind; for what they were accompanied by the cottage with the m-lle Linon and all the three bars went in the wheel to the Tver Boulevard in their atlas spots—Dolly in
During his studenthood, he was hardly in love with the elderly, Dolly, but she was soon married to Oblonsky.
He began to fall in love with the second.
He seemed to feel like he had to fall in love with one of his sisters, but he could not understand what.
But Natalie, just appeared in the light, married the diplomat of Lviv.
Kitty was still a child when Levin left the university.
The young Scherbatsky, entering the sailors, drowned in the Baltic Sea, and the relations of Levin with Scherbatsky, despite his friendship with Oblonsky, became more rare.
But when this year, in the beginning of the winter, Levin arrived in Moscow after a year in the village and saw the Scherbatsky, he realized who of the three he was indeed judged to fall in love.
It would seem that nothing could be easier for him, a good race, rather rich than a poor man, thirty-two years old, to make a proposal to the prince of Scherbatska; at all the probability, he would be immediately recognised as a good party.
But Levin was in love, and therefore it seemed to him that Kitty was such a perfection in all respects, such a creature above all the earth, and he is such a earth-low creature that there could not be no idea that others and she herself would recognize him worthy of it.
After staying in Moscow for two months, almost every day seeing Kitty in the light where he began to travel to meet her, Levin suddenly decided that it could not be, and went to the village.
Levin's belief that this cannot be, was based on the fact that in the eyes of his relatives he is a disadvantaged, unworthy party for the beautiful Kitty, and Kitty itself cannot love him.
In the eyes of his relatives he did not have any usual, certain activity and position in the light, while his comrades now, when he was thirty-two years old, were already—that colonel and flegel-adjutant, that professor, that director of the bank and railways or chairman of the presence, like Oblonsky; he (he knew very well what he was to look like for others) was a keeper, engaged in the breeding of cows, shooting hips and buildings, i.e. a donorless little one, from which nothing came out, and making, by the concepts of society, the same that are done by the people who are not going anywhere.
The mysterious beauty of Kitty could not love such an unpleasant man as he thought himself, a man, and, most importantly, such a simple, no-excellent man.
In addition, his previous relationships with Kitty — the relationship of an adult to a child, due to friendship with her brother — seemed to him a new barrier to love.
The unpleasant, good man he thought he could be loved as a friend, but to be loved by the love he loved Kitty himself, he needed to be a beautiful man, and most importantly a special man.
He heard that women often love unpleasant, simple people, but he didn’t believe it because he judged by himself, as he could love only beautiful, mysterious and special women.
But after spending two months alone in the village, he was convinced that this was not one of the loves he experienced in his first youth; that this feeling didn’t give him a minute of rest; that he couldn’t live without solving the question: whether or not she would be his wife; and that his despair came only from his imagination, that he didn’t have any evidence that he would be rejected.
And he has now come to Moscow with a firm decision to make an offer and marry if he is accepted.
Or... he couldn’t think about what would be with him if he was refused.
Arriving in the morning train to Moscow, Levin stopped with his older brother at the mother of Koznyshev and, dressed up, entered his office, intending immediately to tell him why he came, and ask him for advice: but his brother was not alone.
He was a famous professor of philosophy who came from Kharkov, in fact, then to explain the misunderstanding that arose between them on a very important philosophical question.
The professor conducted a hot controversy against the materialists, and Sergey Koznyšev with interest followed this controversy and, after reading the professor's last article, wrote his objection in his letter; he blamed the professor for too large defeats to the materialists. The teacher immediately came to talk.
It was about the fashion question: is there a boundary between mental and physiological phenomena in human activity and where is it?
Sergey Ivanovich met his brother with a pleasant and cold smile for all and, introducing him to the professor, continued his conversation.
A little yellow man in his glasses, with a narrow neck, for a moment dropped from the conversation to greet, and continued his speech without paying attention to Levin.
Levin sat waiting for the professor to leave, but soon interested in the subject of the conversation.
Levin met in the magazines of the articles that he was talking about, and read them, interested in them, as the development of his acquaintances, as a naturalist at the university, the foundations of natural sciences, but never approached these scientific conclusions about the origin of man as an animal, about reflexes, about biology and sociology with those questions about the meaning of life and death for himself, which in recent times more and more often came to his mind.
Hearing his brother’s conversation with the professor, he noticed that they linked the scientific questions with the breathing, several times almost approached these questions, but every time they approached closely to the main thing, as he thought, they immediately quickly moved away and again deepened into the area of subtle divisions, speeches, quotes, suggestions, references to authorities, and he hardly understood what it was about.
"I can't allow," Sergey Ivanovich told him with the usual clarity and clarity of the expression and the elegance of the diction, "I can't in any case agree with Case that all my idea of the outside world would come out of impressions.
The most basic concept of being is not obtained by me by feeling, for there is no special body to transmit this concept.
Yes, but they, Wurst, and Knaust, and Pripas, will answer you that your consciousness of being comes from the sum of all feelings, that this consciousness of being is the result of feelings.
Wurst even directly says that, as soon as there is no feeling, there is no concept of being.
“I’ll say the opposite,” Sergey Ivanovich began.
But here to Levin, again, it seemed that when they came to the main, they left again, and he decided to ask the professor a question.
What happened if my feelings were destroyed, if my body died, no one could exist? He asked him.
The professor with boredness and as if mental pain from the break looked at a strange questionnaire, more like a burlak than a philosopher, and turned his eyes on Sergey Ivanovich, asking: what do we say here?
But Sergey Ivanovich, who was far from that effort and unilaterally speaking as a professor, and who had space in his head to respond to the professor and together to understand that simple and natural point of view with which the question was made, smiled and said:
We still have no right to solve this...
“We don’t have data,” the professor confirmed and continued his arguments. “No,” he said, “I point out that if, as Pripasov directly says, a feeling and has its basis of impression, then we must strictly distinguish these two concepts.
Levin did not listen anymore and waited for the professor to leave.
When the professor left, Sergey Ivanovich addressed his brother:
I am so glad you have come.
for long?
What is Economy?
Levin knew that the farming was uninterested by his older brother, and that he, only giving him a dismissal, asked him about it, and therefore replied only about the sale of wheat and money.
Levin wanted to tell his brother about his intention to marry and ask his advice, he even firmly decided on it; but when he saw his brother, he listened to his conversation with the professor, when he then heard that unwilling protective tone with which his brother was asking him about economic affairs (the maternal possession of them was unreleased, and Levin led both parts), Levin felt that he could not somehow begin to talk to his brother about his decision to marry.
He felt his brother was not as he would like to look at it.
What is your land, how? - asked Sergey Ivanovich, who was very interested in land and attributed great importance to him.
Right, I don’t know...
How?
Are you a member of the Board?
“No, I’m not a member; I’ve gone out,” Constantine Levin replied, “and I’m not going to the meeting anymore.
It is sad! - said Sergey Ivanovich, humbling.
Levin in excuse began to tell what was done at the meetings in his department.
This is always so! He was killed by Sergey Ivanovich. The Russians are always so.
Maybe that’s our good feature – the ability to see our shortcomings, but we’re overwhelming, we’re comforted by the irony that we’re always ready in the language.
I will only tell you that give the same rights as our land institutions, another European people, the Germans and the English would make them free, and we just laugh.
But what to do? Levi was guilty. This was my last experience.
I tried with all my heart.
I cannot.
Unable to.
“It’s not unable,” said Sergey Ivanovich, “you don’t look at the matter so much.
“Maybe,” Levin replied unfortunately.
And you know, brother Nicholas is here again.
Brother Nikolai was the mother and older brother of Konstantin Levin and the single-born brother of Sergey Ivanovich, a dead man, who prompted the great portion of his state, who turned into the most strange and evil society, and who collided with his brothers.
What do you say? Levin screamed with horror.
Why do you know?
Procophia saw him on the street.
Here in Moscow?
Where is he?
You know? Levin stood up from the chair, as if he was going to go right away.
“I’m sorry that I told you this,” said Sergey Ivanic, heading his head to the excitement of the smaller brother. I sent him to know where he lives, and I sent him a vessel to his trubin, which I paid for.
That’s what he replied to me.
And Sergey Ivanovich submitted a note from the press paper to his brother.
Levin read what was written in a strange, familiar post: "Please leave me quietly.
This is what I ask for from my dear brothers. by Nikolai Levin.”
Levin read this and, without lifting his head, with a note in his hand stood in front of Sergey Ivanovich.
In his soul fought the desire to forget the unhappy brother now and the consciousness that it would be bad.
“He obviously wants to offend me,” continued Sergey Ivanovich, “but he cannot offend me, and I would like to help him with all my heart, but I know that this cannot be done.
“Yes, yes,” Levin repeated. I understand and appreciate your attitude to him; but I will go to him.
“If you want, go, but I don’t advise,” Sergey Ivanovich said. For me, I am not afraid of it; he will not fight you with me; but for you, I advise you not to drive.
I cannot help.
But do as you want.
Maybe, and I can’t help, but I feel, especially at this moment – well, it’s another – I feel that I can’t be calm.
“Well, I don’t understand that,” Sergey Ivanovich said. One thing I understand, he added, is a lesson of humility.
I was differently and more humiliating to look at what was called foolishness, after brother Nicholas became what he was.
You know what he did...
Oh, that’s terrible, terrible! He repeated Levin.
Having received from the lake of Sergey Ivanovich the address of his brother, Levin immediately gathered to go to him, but, considering, decided to postpone his trip to the evening.
First of all, in order to have a soul peace, it was necessary to resolve the matter for which he came to Moscow.
From his brother, Levin went to the presence of Oblonsky and, after learning about the Scherbatsky, went to the place where he was told that he could stop Kiti.
At four a.m., feeling his biteing heart, Levin sinked from the exporter to the Zoo and went on the road to the mountains and the roof, probably knowing that he will find it there because he saw the sherbatsky car at the entrance.
At the entrance rows were carets, sanes, vanks, gendarmes. A pure people, glowing on the bright sun with hates, walked at the entrance and on the cleansed roads, between the Russian houses with the cuts of the princes; the old cuts of the garden, covered with all the branches of snow, seemed to have been shaped into new ceremonial t-shirts.
He walked on the way to the roof and said to himself, “Do not worry, you have to calm.
About what are you?
What are you?
Silence, stupid,” he turned to his heart.
And the more he tried to calm himself, the worse his breath was captured.
The acquaintance met and clocked him, but Levin didn’t even know who he was.
He approached the mountains, on which the chains of the falling and lifting salads crumbled, the crumbling salads crumbled, and joyful voices sounded.
He went a few more steps, and a cat opened before him, and immediately among all the runners he knew it.
He learned that she was here, by joy and fear, covering his heart.
She stood talking to the lady on the opposite end of the boat.
Nothing seemed to be special, neither in her clothes nor in her poses; but for Levin it was as easy to know her in this crowd as a rose in a crap.
Everything was illuminated by her.
She was a smile that illuminated everything around.
“Can I go there, on the ice, and get to her?” He thought.
The place where she was seemed unavailable to him as a saint, and there was a minute that he was almost gone: it was so terrible to him.
He had to make an effort on himself and judge that all kinds of people are walking around her, that he himself could come there and ride on the coins.
He went down, avoiding long looking at it like the sun, but he saw it like the sun, and not looking at it.
On the ice gathered on this day of the week and on this day, people of one circle, all acquainted with each other.
There were here and the riding masters, cheerful of the art, and the teachers behind the chairs, with wicked unpleasant movements, and the boys, and the old men, who riding for hygiene purposes; all seemed to Lewin as selected happy, because they were here, near her.
All the riding seemed to be completely indifferent to pursue it, pursue it, even talk to it, and completely independently entertained, enjoying great ice and good weather.
Nikolai Šterbatsky, Kiti's two-year-old brother, in a short jacket and narrow pants, sat on his legs on the shelf and, when he saw Levin, cried to him:
The first Russian cowboy!
For a long time?
Excellent ice, wearing the clothes.
“I have no conks,” Levin replied, surprised by this courage and discretion in her presence, and not losing her for a moment, even though he didn’t look at her.
He felt the sun approached him.
She was on the corner and, stupidly puting the narrow legs in your shoes, apparently robbery, climbed to him, desperately wrapped with his hands and dropped to the ground the boy in a Russian dress pursued her.
She climbed not very hard; with her hands out of the small muft hanging on the snorkel, she kept them ready and, looking at Levin, whom she knew, she smiled to him and to her fear.
When the turn ended, she pushed herself with a stretch of foot and went straight to Sherbatsk; and, holding his hand and smiling, she threw Levin.
She was more beautiful than he imagined.
When he thought of her, he could imagine her all, especially the beauty of her, with an expression of childhood clarity and kindness, a small white head, so freely placed on the female shoulders.
The childhood of the expression of her face in conjunction with the thin beauty of the stone constituted her special beauty, which he well remembered; but what always, as an unexpected impression in her, it was the expression of her eyes, gentle, quiet and true, and especially her smile, which always carried Levina into a magical world where he felt humiliated and mild, as he could remember himself in the rare days of his early childhood.
Have you been here for a long time? She said, giving him the hand. “Thank you,” she added when he raised the plate that fell out of her muft.
I am? I recently, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday. “I wanted to go to you,” he said, and immediately, remembering what intention he was looking for her, confused and reddened. I didn’t know you’re riding on horses and you’re riding well.
She looked at him carefully, wanting to understand the cause of his disturbance.
Your praise must be appreciated.
“There’s a tradition that you’re the best cowboy,” she said, scratching with a small hand in a black gloves the needles of the ines that fell on the muft.
“Yes, I once fell with passion; I wanted to get to perfection.
“You all seem to do with passion,” she said with a smile. I want to see how you ride.
Hopefully the horses, and let us ride together.
“Go together!
Is it possible?” Lewin thought, looking at her.
“That’s now,” he said, “and he went to wear clothes.
“For a long time we hadn’t been there, strike,” said the catalytic, holding the foot and swinging the cable. There is no master after you.
Will it be good? He said, pressing the belt.
“Well, well, please, soon,” Lewin replied, hardly holding the smile of happiness that was unintentional on his face.
“Yes,” he thought, “this is life, this is happiness!
Together, she said, let’s ride together.
Tell her now?
But I am afraid to say that now I am happy, happy even with hope.
And then?
But you have to! Need to, need to!
Avoid the weakness!”
Levin stood on his legs, took off his jacket, and, rushing out on the shrush of the house of the ice, escaped on the smooth ice, and repented without effort, as if he was by his own will accelerating, shrinking and directing the run.
He approached her with the slave, but again her smile calmed him.
She gave him the hand, and they went by, adding the walk, and the faster, the stronger she compressed his hand.
“I’d learn with you rather, I’m somehow confident in you,” she said to him.
“And I’m confident when you’re relying on me,” he said, but immediately feared what he said, and reddened.
And indeed, as soon as he said these words, suddenly, as the sun came over, her face lost all its kindness, and Levin realized her face's famous play, which meant the effort of thought: on her smooth forehead was a fist.
Do you have nothing unpleasant?
But I don’t have the right to ask, he quickly spoke.
Why then?
No, I have nothing unpleasant, — she answered cold and immediately added, — did you not see Mademoiselle Linon?
No more.
Go to her, she loves you so much.
“What is it?
I angry her.
Lord, help me!” -Levin thought and fled to the old French woman with seven butterflies sitting on the shelf.
Smiling and exposing her false teeth, she met him like an old friend.
“Yes, here we grow,” she told him, pointing the eyes on Kitty, and the old.
Tiny bear has already become big!-- continued the French woman, laughing, and reminded him of his joke about the three bears he called the three bears from the English fairy tale. Remember, you once said so?
He definitely didn’t remember it, but for ten years she laughed at that joke and loved it.
Go, go to ride.
It was good to ride, isn’t it?
When Levin fled to Kitty again, her face was no longer strict, her eyes looked equally true and gentle, but Levin seemed to have a special, intentionally calm tone in her gentleness.
And he became sad. Talking about her old governor, about her strangers, she asked him about his life.
Are you tired of the winter in the village? She said.
“No, it’s not boring, I’m very busy,” he said, feeling that she’s subjecting him to her quiet tone, from which he won’t be able to get out, just as it was at the beginning of the winter.
Have you arrived a long time? He asked Kitty.
“I don’t know,” he replied without thinking about what he said.
The idea that if he will tolerate this tone of peaceful friendship, then he will go again, without resolving anything, came to him, and he decided to get angry.
How do you not know?
I don’t know.
It depends on you,” he said and immediately scared his words.
She didn’t hear his words, or she didn’t want to hear, but she seemed to hit, twice knocking her leg, and suddenly repented away from him. She climbed to M-lle Linon, said something to her and went to the house where the ladies photographed cakes.
“My God, what I did!
God my God! Help me, teach me,” said Levin, praying and at the same time feeling the need for strong movement, escaping and writing out the external and internal circles.
At this time, one of the young men, the best of the new cowboys, with a papyrus in the mouth, in the cowboys, came out of the coffee shop and, escaping, leaked on the cowboys down on the stairs, trembling and jumping.
He went down and, without even changing the position of his hands, repented on the ice.
Oh, this is a new thing! - said Levin and immediately flew up to do this new thing.
Don’t worry, you need a habit. He was screaming by Nikolai Šterbatsky.
Levin entered the attacks, escaped from above as much as he could, and left down, keeping the balance of his hands in an unusual movement.
At the last stage he sticked, but, slightly touching the ice with his hand, made a strong move, managed and, laughing, repented further.
“Happy, dear,” Kitty thought at that time, leaving the house with M-lle Linon and looking at him with a smile of silent grace, like a beloved brother.
“Are I guilty of doing something wrong?
They say cocktail.
I know that I do not love him; but I still have fun with him, and he is so glorious.
“Why did he say that?” She thought.
When she saw Kitty leaving and her mother meeting her on the stairs, Levin, reddened after a fast movement, stopped and thought.
He took off the coins and reached the outlet of the garden with his mother and daughter.
“I am so glad to see you,” said the princess. The quarter, as usual, is accepted.
Did it happen today?
“We will be very happy to see you,” the princess said dryly.
This dryness angered Kitty, and she couldn’t stop the desire to smooth her mother’s coldness.
She turned her head and said with a smile:
until the date.
At that time, Stephan Arkadić, with a hat on the side, bright with his face and eyes, joyful winner entered the garden.
But when he came to the cheer, he with a sad, guilty face answered her questions about Dolly's health. Speaking quietly and tiredly, he stretched his chest and took Levin under his hand.
What do we go? He asked him. “I thought all about you, and I’m very happy that you’ve come,” he said, with a significant look in his eyes.
- Let's go, let's go, - answered the happy Levin, not ceasing to hear the sound of the voice saying, "To date," and to see the smile with which it was said.
In the “England” or in the “Ermitage”?
I do not matter.
“Well, in England,” said Stepan Arkadić, choosing England because there he, in England, was more debt than in Ermitage. It was bad to avoid this hotel. Do you have an exporter?
It was great, and I left the car.
The friends were silent all the way.
Levin thought about what this change of expression meant on Kitty's face, and then assured himself that there is hope, then he walked in despair and clearly saw that his hope was mad, and in the meantime he felt a completely different person, unlike what he was before her smile and words before the date.
Stephan Arkadic made a menu.
Do you love turbo? He told Levine when he came.
What? He asked Levin. The Turbo?
I really love turbo.
When Levin entered the hotel with Oblonsky, he could not ignore some characteristic of the expression, as if the shining shining, on the face and in the whole figure of Stephan Arkadić. Oblonsky took off the jacket and in the hat, he went to the dining room, giving orders to the Tatar who fell to him in fracks and with a handful.
Praying to the right and to the left found and here, as everywhere, he joyfully met his acquaintances, he approached the buffet, snacked a vodka with a fish and said something like it to a painted, in stripes, circles and wings to a French woman sitting behind the counter, that even this French woman sincerely laughed. Levin only did not drink vodka, that this French woman was offensive to him, all of which seemed to be made of foreign hair, poudre de riz and vinaigre de toilette.
He, like from a dirty place, quickly left her. His whole soul was filled with the memories of Kitty, and in his eyes glowed a smile of celebration and happiness.
“Here, your brightness, please, you will not be worried here, your brightness,” said the spearless old tatarine with a wide pelvis and the folds of the frac that spread over it. “Sorry, your brightness,” he said to Levin, in a sign of honor to Stephan Arkadic, taking care of his guest.
Instantly scattering a fresh scatter on a round table covered with a scatter under a bronze bridge, he lifted the bark chairs and stopped in front of Stephan Arcadić with a handheld and a card in his hands, waiting for orders.
If you order, your brightness, a separate cabinet is now forgiven: Prince Golitsyn with the lady.
The eyebrows are fresh.
A! The eyelids.
Stephan Arkadic thought.
Do you change the plan, Levin? He said he stopped his finger on the map. His face expressed serious confusion. Are the eyebrows good?
You look at!
Flensburg, your brightness, there are no Ostensburgs.
Flemish is Flemish, is it fresh?
I received yesterday.
So, don’t you start with the outskirts, and then change the whole plan? and?
I do not matter.
It’s best for me, but it’s not here.
- Kasha a la russ, can you tell me? - said Tatarine, as a nurse over the child, hanging over the Levine.
Without a joke that you choose, it’s good.
I fled on the horses, and I wanted it.
And don't think, - he added, noticing an unhappy expression on the face of Oblonsky, - that I may not appreciate your choice.
I enjoy singing well.
Again would!
Whatever it says, it’s one of the pleasures of life,” Stepan Arkadić said. “Well, so give us, brother, you are my, two or a little, three dozen, soup with roots...
- Prentanyer, he caught the Tatar.
But Stephan Arkadić, of course, did not want to give him the pleasure of calling French cuisine.
With the roots, you know?
Then turbo under a thick sauce, then... growth bife; look for it to be good.
What to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do.
Tatarine, remembering the manner of Stephan Arcadić not to call the cushion on the French map, did not repeat after him, but gave himself the pleasure to repeat the entire order on the map: "Sup prentanier, turbo sauce Bomarche, pulard a lastragon, maseduan de frui..." - and immediately, as on the bricks, placing one overlaped map and capturing another, wine map, submitted it to Stephan Arcadić.
What will we drink?
“I’m what you want, just a little champagne,” said Levin.
How? The first?
However, it is true,.
Do you love white stamps?
“Cache Blank,” he captured the Tatar.
So, give this mark to the eyelids, and there will be seen.
I listen to S. What table do you order?
New to give. Better than a classical shell.
I listen to S.
Do you order your cheese?
Yes to Parmesan.
Or do you love another?
“No, I don’t care, I can’t keep my smile,” said Levin.
And the Tatarine with the floating folds over the widespread pelvis fled and, after five minutes, entered with the dish opened on the perlamutrous folds and with a bottle between his fingers.
Stephan Arkadić smiled the scratched wardrobe, pulled it to himself for the jacket and, placing his hands quietly, took it for his eyebrows.
“And they are foolish,” he said, throwing a silver wire with the perlamutrous rubber of the sliding eyelids and swallowing them one after the other. “The foolish,” he repeated, throwing the wet and bright eyes to Levin, to Tatarine.
Levin ate the eyelids, although white bread with cheese was more pleasant for him.
But he was curious about Oblonsky.
Even the Tatarine, who swallowed the gap and wrapped the gray wine on the broken thin spots, with a noticeable smile of pleasure, repairing his white garlic, looked at Stephan Arkadić.
Do you don’t like hairstyles? - said Stepan Arkadić, drinking his glass, or are you worried?
He wanted Levin to be fun.
But Levin was not what was not fun, he was angry.
With what he had in the soul, he was sad and unpleasant in the tractor, between the cabinets where they had lunch with the ladies, among this wicked and wicked; this atmosphere of bronze, mirrors, gas, tatar — all this was insulting to him.
He was afraid to catch what filled his soul.
Yes, I’m worried; but, in addition, it’s all angry for me,” he said. You can’t imagine myself as a village resident, all this is wild, like the nails of the lord I’ve seen in you.
- Yes, I saw that the nails of the poor Grinevich were very interested in you, - laughing, Stepan Arkadić said.
“I can’t,” Levin replied. - You try, enter me, get to the point of view of the village resident.
We in the village try to put our hands in such a position that it would be convenient for them to work; for this we cut our nails, sometimes stretching our gloves.
And here people deliberately release the nails as much as they can hold, and attach the dish in the form of a stick, so that nothing can be done with their hands.
Stephan Arkadic smiled with joy.
It is a sign that he does not need hard work.
He has a mind...
Maybe is. But it is still wild for me, just as it is wild for me now, that we, the villagers, are trying to eat faster to be able to do our business, and we and you are trying to not eat as long as possible, and for that we are eating wheels...
— Well, of course — captured Stephan Arkadić. But this is the purpose of education: to make the enjoyment of everything.
If this is my goal, I would like to be wild.
You are so wild...
You are all the Levins.
Levi was breathing.
He recalled his brother Nicholas, and he became conscious and painful, and he swallowed; but Oblonsky talked about that subject, which immediately took him away.
“Well, you’re going to go to us tonight, to Sherbatsky, that’s? He said, moving away the empty sherry rackets, moving the cheese and significantly brilliant with the eyes.
“Yes, I’m going to go,” Levin replied. But it seemed to me that the princess unwantedly called me.
What are you!
Wake up what!
This is her style...
Give me, brothers, the soup.
This is her manner, great lady,” said Stephan Arkadić. I’m going to go, but I’m going to go to the county of Bannon.
Why are you not a wild?
How do you explain that you suddenly disappeared from Moscow?
Sherbats asked me about you constantly, as if I should know.
And I know only one thing: you always do what no one does.
- Yes, - said Levin slowly and excitedly. You are right, I am a wild.
But my only wildness is not that I have gone, but that I have come now.
Now I came.
Oh, how happy you are! He captured Stepan Arkadić, looking in the eyes of Levin.
Why to?
“I know the horses of the rets by some of their tavers, the youths of the beloved I know by their eyes,” Stepan Arkadić declared. You have everything in front.
Do you have back?
No, though not in the back, but you have the future, and I have the present, yes, in the back.
And what?
Well not good.
Well, yes, I want to talk about myself, and at the same time I can’t explain everything,” said Stepan Arkadić. Why did you go to Moscow?
Oh, take it! He screamed to the Tatar.
Do you guess? Levin answered, not leaving from Stephan Arcadić his deep-glowing eyes.
I remember, but I can’t start talking about it. That’s what you can see, right or wrong I guess,” said Stepan Arkadić, with a thin smile looking at Levin.
What will you say to me? - said Levin with a drilling voice and feeling that all the muscles are drilling on his face. How do you look at it?
Stephan Arkadić slowly drank his glass of shabby, not leaving his eyes from Levin.
I am? “Stepan Arkadić said, I’t want anything like this, nothing.
This is the best that could be.
But you are not wrong?
Do you know what we are talking about? Lewin spoke, swallowing his eyes into his interlocutor. Do you think that is possible?
I think it is possible.
Why is it impossible?
Do you think that is possible?
Say everything you think!
What if I have a rejection?
And I am even sure...
Why do you think that? - Smiling to his excitement, Stepan Arkadić said.
Sometimes I think so.
It will be terrible for me and her.
In any case, there is nothing terrible for the girl.
Every girl is proud of the offer.
Every girl, but not her.
Stephan Arkadic smiled.
He knew this sense of Levin, he knew that for him all the girls in the world are divided into two varieties: one varieties are all the girls in the world except her, and these girls have all the human weaknesses, and the girls are very ordinary; the other varieties are one, without any weaknesses and above all the human.
“Stop, take the sauce,” he said, holding the hand of Levin, who pulled the sauce away.
Levin humbly put the sauce, but did not eat Stephan Arkadic.
“No, you stand, stand,” he said. It is a matter of life and death for me.
I have never talked to anyone about it. And I can't talk about it with anyone like you.
For here are we with you in all things: other tastes, views, everything; but I know that you love me and understand me, and that is why I love you terribly.
“I tell you what I think,” said Stepan Arkadic smiling. “But I’ll tell you more, my wife is the most amazing woman...”Stepan Arkadic breathed up, remembering his relationship with his wife, and, silent for a minute, continued, “She has a gift of prediction.
She almost sees people; but that’s little, she knows what’s going to happen, especially in part of marriages.
She, for example, predicted that Shakhovskaya would go out for Brentellna.
No one wanted to believe it, and that’s how it came out.
And she is on your side.
That is how?
“So she’s little that loves you,” she says, “Kitty will definitely be your wife.”
With these words, Levin's face suddenly glowed with a smile, one that was close to the tears of mercy.
She says that! He screamed Levin. I’ve always said she’s beautiful, your wife.
Well, enough, enough to talk about it, he said, standing up from the place.
Well, but sit down.
But Levin couldn’t sit.
He walked twice with his hard steps over the cell-room, swallowed his eyes so that there was no tears, and then only sat again at the table.
“You understand,” he said, “that’s not love.
I was in love, but that’s not that.
This is not my feeling, but some external force has dominated me.
For I have gone because I have decided that this cannot be, you understand as a happiness that cannot be on earth; but I struggle with myself and see that without it there is no life.
And we have to decide...
Why did you leave?
Oh it stands!
How many thoughts!
How much to ask!
listen to.
You can’t imagine what you did for me with what you said.
I'm so happy that I've even got a shit; I've forgotten everything.
I learned today that brother Nicholas... you know, he is here... and I forgot about him.
I think he is happy too.
It is like a madness.
But one terrible...
Here you married, you know that feeling... It’s terrible that we are old, already with the past... not love, but sins... suddenly we get closer to a pure, innocent being; it’s disgusting, and therefore we cannot not feel unworthy.
You have a little sins.
— Oh, yet, — said Levin, — yet, — with hatred reading my life, I tremble and forgive, and gorgeously complain.
Yes.
“What to do, so the world is arranged,” said Stepan Arkadić.
One comfort, as in this prayer, which I have always loved, that I am forgiven not by merits, but by mercy.
She can only forgive...
Levin drank his glass, and they silenced. Another thing I have to say to you.
Do you know Vronsky? Asked by Stepan Arkadic Levina.
No, I don’t know.
Why do you ask?
Stephan Arkadić addressed the Tatarine, who flushed the bottles and turned around them when he didn’t need it.
Why do I know Vronsky?
And then you know Vronsky that he is one of your competitors.
What is Vronsky? - said Levin, and his face from that kindly enthusiastic expression that Oblonsky just loved, suddenly turned into evil and unpleasant.
Vronsky is one of the sons of Count Kirill Ivanovich Vronsky and one of the best samples of the golden youth of St. Petersburg.
I knew him at Tver, when I served there, and he came to the recruitment set.
Very rich, beautiful, big connections, flegel-adjutant and at the same time - very cute, good little.
But more than just a good little.
As I have known him here, he is educated and very intelligent; he is a man who will go far.
Levin blurred and silenced.
- Well, he appeared here shortly after you, and as I understand, he is in love with Kitty, and you understand that his mother...
“I’m sorry, but I don’t understand anything,” said Levin, trembling.
And immediately he remembered his brother Nicholas and how stupid he was that he could forget about him.
“You stand, stand,” said Stephan Arkadić, smiling and touching his hand. I told you what I know, and I repeat that in this thin and gentle thing, how much you can guess, I think the chances are on your side.
Levin dropped back on the chair, his face was bright.
“But I would advise you to resolve the matter as soon as possible,” continued Oblonsky, throwing a glass to him.
“No, thank you, I can’t drink anymore,” said Levin, lifting his glass. I will be drunk...
How do you live? He continued, apparently wanting to change the conversation.
Another word: in any case, I advise to resolve the question faster.
“I don’t advise you to speak,” said Stepan Arkadić. Go tomorrow morning, classically, make an offer, and let God bless you.
What do you want to get to my hunt? Here, come in the spring,” said Levin.
Now he scared with all his soul that he began this conversation with Stepan Arkadić.
His special feeling was damaged by the talk about the competition of a certain St. Petersburg officer, the assumptions and the advice of Stepan Arkadić.
He knew what was done in the heart of Levin.
“I’ll come one day,” he said. “Yes, brother, women are the wings on which everything turns.
This is my thing bad, very bad.
All of women.
You tell me honestly, - he continued, bringing a cigarette and holding one hand for the glass, - you give me advice.
But in what?
This is what.
Let’s say you’re married, you love your wife, but you’re captured by another woman.
“I’m sorry, but I definitely don’t understand how... even though I don’t understand how I would now, when I got off, just go through the cylinder and steal the cylinder.
The eyes of Stepan Arkadić glowed more than usual.
Sometimes it smells so much that you can’t stand. Himmlisch ist's, if ich bezwungen Meine irdische Begier; Aber noch wenn's nicht gelungen, Hatt'ich auch recht hubsch Plaisir!
Speaking this, Stepan Arkadic smiled thinly. Levin could not even smile.
— Yes, but without a joke, — continued Oblonsky. You understand that a woman, a gentle, gentle, loving being, poor, lonely and sacrificed to all.
Now that the thing has already been done, do you understand, do you want to leave it?
Let us put: to separate, not to destroy the family life; but not to regret it, not to arrange it, not to relieve it?
Sorry to me.
You know, for me all women are divided into two varieties... that is, no... rather: there are women, and there are...
I have not seen and will not see beautiful falling creatures, but such as that coloured French woman in the countryside, with the curtains, are for me curtains, and all the falling are the same.
And the Evangelical?
Oh, stop to stop!
Christ would never say these words if he knew how they would be abused.
The whole of the gospel only remembers these words.
I don’t say what I think, but what I feel.
I hate the falling women.
You’re afraid of the spiders, and I’m afraid of them.
You probably haven’t studied the spiders and you don’t know their patterns.
“It’s good for you to say that; it’s like this Dickensov gentleman, who throws all the difficult questions with his left hand through his right shoulder.
But denying the fact is not the answer.
What to do, tell me what to do?
The woman is aging and you are full of life.
You will not be able to look at how you already feel that you can’t love your wife by love, no matter how you respect her.
And there suddenly comes love, and you have gone, you have gone! - With disappointment spoke Stepan Arkadić.
Levin smiled.
- Yes, and disappeared, - continued Oblonsky. But what to do?
Don’t steal the cracks.
Stephan Arkadic laughed.
Oh the moralist!
But you understand, there are two women: the one insists only on their rights, and the right is your love, which you can’t give her; and the other offers you everything and requires nothing.
What to do to you?
How to do?
This is a terrible drama.
If you want my confession about this, I’ll tell you that I don’t believe that there is a drama here.
And this is why. In my opinion, love... both of the love that you remember—Platon defines in his “Pire,” both of the love serve as a test stone for people.
Some people understand only one, others the other.
And those who understand only non-platonic love are foolish about drama.
With such love, there can be no drama.
“Thank you for the pleasure, my honor,” this is the whole drama.
And for platonic love there can be no drama, because in such love everything is clear and clean, because there is no drama.
At that moment, Levin remembered his sins and the inner struggle he experienced. He suddenly added:
And maybe you are right.
Very might be...
But I don’t know, I definitely don’t know.
“That’s what you see,” said Stepan Arkadić, “you are a very whole man.
This is your quality and your disadvantage.
You are a whole character and you want the whole life to be made up of whole phenomena, and that doesn’t happen.
You neglect public service because you want the matter to be constantly in accordance with the goal, and that doesn’t happen.
You also want that one person’s activity always has a purpose, that love and family life are always one. And that does not happen.
All diversity, all beauty, all beauty of life is made up of shadow and light.
Levin woke up and did not answer anything.
He thought of his own and did not listen to Oblonsky.
And suddenly they both felt that although they and friends, although they ate together and drank wine, which should be even closer to them, but that each one thinks only about his own, and each other has nothing to do.
Oblonsky had repeatedly experienced this extreme division that occurred after lunch instead of approximation and knew what should be done in these cases.
The account! - he screamed and went out to the neighboring hall, where he immediately met the acquainted adjuvant and entered a conversation with him about the actress and her container.
And immediately in the conversation with the adjuvant, Oblonsky felt relief and relaxation from the conversation with Levin, which always caused him to too much mental and mental tension.
When Tatarin appeared with a bill of twenty-six rubles with copies and with a supplement to a vodka, Levin, whom in another time, as a village resident, would make a horror account on his share of fourteen rubles, now didn’t pay attention to it, paid out and went home to dress up and go to Scherbatsky, where his fate will be decided.
Kitty Scherbatskaya was eighteen years old. She went out the first winter.
Her successes in the light were greater than both of her older sisters, and greater than the princess even expected.
Unfortunately, the young men who danced on the Moscow balls were almost all in love with Kitty, already in the first winter two serious parties were presented: Levin and, immediately after his departure, Count Vronsky.
The appearance of Levin at the beginning of the winter, his frequent visits and manifest love for Kitty were the reason for the first serious conversations between Kitty’s parents about her future and the disputes between the prince and the princess.
The prince was on the side of Levin, saying he didn’t want anything better for Kitty.
The princess, with a woman-specific habit of crossing the question, said that Kitty was too young, that Levin didn’t show anything, that she had serious intentions, that Kitty had no attachment to him, and other arguments; but she didn’t say the main, that she was waiting for a best party for her daughter, and that Levin was impatient to her, and that she didn’t understand him.
When Levin suddenly left, the princess was glad and said to her husband, “You see, I was right.”
When Vronsky appeared, she was even more glad, stating in her opinion that Kitty should make not just a good but brilliant party.
For the mother, there could be no comparison between Vronsky and Levin.
The mother did not like in Levine and his strange and sharp judgments, and his discomfort in the light, based, as she believed, on pride, and his, according to her concepts, some wild life in the village, with the occupations of the sheep and men; he did not like much and that he, in love with her daughter, traveled to the house for a month and a half, something as if he was waiting, looked out, as if he was afraid, whether it would be a great honour if he made an offer, and did not understand that, going to the house where the girl of the bride, it had to be explained. Suddenly, without an explanation, he left.
“It’s good that he’s so unattractive that Kitty didn’t fall in love with him,” the mother thought.
Vronsky fulfilled all the wishes of his mother.
Very wealthy, intelligent, talented, on the way of a brilliant military career and an overwhelming man.
There was nothing better to wish.
Vronsky on the balls clearly cared for Kitty, danced with her and went to the house, it became impossible to doubt the seriousness of his intentions.
But, despite that, my mother was in terrible anxiety and anxiety all this winter.
The princess herself married thirty years ago, after the wedding of her aunt.
The wives, of which everything was already known, came, saw the bride, and they saw him; the wives of the uncle knew and transmitted the mutual impression; the impression was good; then on the appointed day it was made to the parents and the expected offer was accepted.
Everything happened very easy and simple.
At least that’s what the princess looked like.
But on her daughters, she experienced how not easy and not just this, which seems usual, is to give the daughters marriage.
How many fears have been survived, how many thoughts have been overthinked, how much money has been spent, how many confrontations with the husband when marrying the elderly two, Daria and Natalya!
Now, at the exit of the smallest, the same fears, the same doubts, and even greater than because of the elderly, disputes with the husband were experienced.
The old prince, like all the fathers, was cautious about the honour and purity of his daughters; he was unreasonably jealous of the daughters, and especially of Kitty, who was his favorite, and on every step made the scenes of the princess for the fact that she compromised the daughter.
The princess was accustomed to this with her first daughters, but now she felt that the prince’s gentility had more grounds.
She saw that in recent times a lot has changed in the acceptance of society, that the duty of the mother has become even more difficult.
She saw that Kitty’s cousins formed some kind of societies, went to some courses, freely dealt with men, walked alone on the streets, many didn’t sit and, most importantly, they were all firmly convinced that choosing a husband is their business, not their parents.
“They don’t get married as before,” all these young girls and all the old men thought and said.
But as they get married today, the princess could not know of anyone.
The French habit — the parents to decide the fate of their children — was not accepted, was condemned.
The English custom — the perfect freedom of the girl — was also unaccepted and impossible in the Russian society.
The Russian custom of marriage was regarded as something shy, they laughed on it, all and the princess herself.
But how to get out and get married, no one knew.
Everyone with whom the princess happened to interpret this, said one thing to her: "Thank you, it's time to leave this old age.
For the young people should marry, not the parents; it has become, and it is necessary to let the young people be satisfied, as they know.”
But it was good to say so to those who didn’t have daughters; and the princess understood that when the daughter approached, she could fall in love and fall in love with the one who doesn’t want to marry, or with the one who doesn’t fit with the husband.
And no matter how much the princess insisted that in our time the young people should arrange their own fate, she could not believe it, as she could not believe that at any time for five-year-old children the best toys should be charged with pistols.
And that's why the princess was worried about Kitty more than her older daughters.
Now she was afraid that Vronsky would not be limited to one care for her daughter.
She saw that her daughter was already in love with him, but she comforted herself with the fact that he was an honest man and therefore won’t do that.
But at the same time, she knew how with the present freedom of behavior it was easy to circumvent the girl’s head and how men easily looked at this guilt.
Last week, Kitty told her mother her conversation during a mosquito with Vronsky.
This conversation partially calmed the princess; but she could not be completely calm.
Wronsky told Kitty that they, both brothers, were so accustomed in everything to obey their mother that they never decided to do something important without consulting her.
“And now I expect, as a special happiness, the arrival of my mother from St. Petersburg,” he said.
Kitty told this without giving any meaning to these words.
But my mother understood it differently.
She knew that the old man was waiting day by day, she knew that the old man would be happy to choose a son, and it was strange for her that he, afraid to offend the mother, did not offer; however, she so wanted the same marriage and, above all, the calm of her worries that she believed in it.
How gorgeous it was now for the princess to see the misfortune of the older daughter of Dolly, who was about to leave her husband, the concern about the decided fate of the younger daughter absorbed all her feelings.
Today, with the appearance of Levin, she added another concern.
She feared that the daughter, which, as she thought, had a moment of sense of Levin, from excessive honesty, would not reject Vronsky, and at all that the arrival of Levin would not stop, would not stop the matter, so close to the end.
Did he come for a long time? The princess said about Levin when they came home.
My baby, mom
“I want to say one thing,” the princess began, and by her seriously revived face, Kitty wondered what it would be about.
“Mama,” she said, exploding and quickly turning to her, “Please don’t say anything about it.
I know, I know everything.
She wanted the same as her mother wanted, but the motives of her mother's desire insulted her.
I just want to say that, giving hope to one...
“Mama, butter, for the sake of God, don’t speak.
It is so terrible to talk about it.
“I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will.” Will not be?
“Never, mom, no one,” Kitty answered, reddening and looking straight into the mother’s face. I have nothing to say now. I... I... if I wanted, I don’t know what to say and how... I don’t know...
“No, the truth she can’t say with these eyes,” the mother thought, smiling to her excitement and happiness.
The princess smiled to how huge and significant it seemed to her, the poor, what is happening now in her soul.
Kitty experienced after lunch and before the beginning of the evening a feeling similar to what the young man experienced before the bite.
Her heart was striking, and her thoughts could not stop.
She felt that this evening, when they both met for the first time, should be decisive in her fate. And she constantly imagined them, then each side, then both together.
When she thought about the past, she with pleasure, gently, stopped on the memories of her relationship with Levin.
The memories of childhood and the memories of Levin's friendship with her dead brother gave a special poetic beauty to her relationship with him.
His love for her, in which she was confident, was stable and joyful to her. It was easy for her to remember Levine.
In the memory of Vronsky was something unpleasant, though he was in the highest degree a secular and quiet man; as if something was false—not in him, he was very simple and gentle—but in it itself, while with Levin she felt completely simple and clear.
But as soon as she thought about the future with Vronsky, she had a bright and happy perspective; with Levin, the future was a cloud.
Going up dressing for the evening and looking in the mirror, she was glad to notice that she was in one of her good days and in full possession of all her forces, and that she so needed for the coming: she felt in herself the outer silence and the free grace of movements.
In the eighth half, just as she went down to the living room, Lakey: "Konstantin Dmitrych Levin."
The princess was still in her room, and the prince was not out.
“It’s so,” Kitty thought, and all the blood flowed to her heart.
She was scared of her blindness, looking in the mirror.
Now she really knew that he then came earlier to get her one and make an offer.
And here only for the first time everything was presented to her from a completely different side, a new side.
Here only she understood that the question concerns not her one — with whom she will be happy and whom she loves — but that at that moment she must offend the person she loves. and offend cruelly.
For what?
Because he, dear, loves her, is in love with her.
Do nothing, do it, do it, do it.
“My God, do I have to tell him this? She thought. What will I tell him?
Will I tell him that I don’t love him?
It will be false.
What will I tell him?
Do I say I love someone else?
No, it is impossible.
I will go, I will go.”
She approached the door when she heard his steps.
“No not! and unfairly.
What should I be afraid?
I did nothing bad.
What will be, it will be! I will tell the truth.
It cannot be uncomfortable with him.
“Here’s he,” she said to herself, seeing all his strong and slave figure with bright, aimed at herself eyes.
She directly looked at him in the face, as if she was asking him for mercy, and gave his hand.
“I’m not in time, it seems too early,” he said, looking at the empty room.
When he saw that his expectations were fulfilled, that nothing prevented him from speaking, his face became dark.
— No, — said Kitty and sat to the table.
“But I only wanted to put you one,” he started without sitting and looking at it, so that he didn’t lose his courage.
Mom is going out.
She was very tired yesterday. Yesterday...
She spoke, without knowing what her lips are saying, and without leaving from him a praising and lazy look...
He looked at her; she was red and silent.
I told you I don’t know if I’ve come for a long time... that it depends on you...
She tended her head down and down, without knowing what she would respond to the approaching.
What it depends on you, he repeated. I wanted to say... I wanted to say...
I came for this... that... to be my wife! — he spoke, not knowing himself what he was saying; but, feeling that the worst thing was said, he stopped and looked at her.
She breathed hard without looking at him.
She was enthusiastic.
Her soul was filled with happiness.
She did not expect that her expressed love would make such a strong impression on her.
But it lasted only one moment.
She remembered Vronsky. She raised her bright truthful eyes on Levin, and when she saw his desperate face, she quickly answered:
This can’t be... forgive me.
How a minute ago she was close to him, how important it was for his life!
And how now she has become strange and far from him!
“It couldn’t be different,” he said without looking at her. He worshipped and wanted to leave.
But at that time the princess came out.
A horror appeared on her face when she saw them alone and their angry faces.
Levin worshipped her and said nothing.
She was silent without lifting her eyes.
"Glory to God, she refused," the mother thought, and her face glowed with the usual smile she met on a quarter of guests.
She sat down and began to ask Levin about his life in the village.
He sat again waiting for the arrival of guests to leave invisibly.
Five minutes later, Kitty's girlfriend, who was married last winter, Countess Nordstone, came in.
It was a dry, yellow, with black bright eyes, a painful and nervous woman.
She loved Kitty, and her love for her, as always married love for girls, expressed in the desire to give Kitty to her ideal happiness marriage, and therefore she wanted to give her for Vronsky.
Levin, whom she often met at the beginning of the winter, was always unpleasant to her.
Her constant and favorite job in meeting with him was to joke about him.
I love when he looks at me from the height of his greatness: either he stops his intelligent conversation with me because I am stupid, or he falls down.
I love it very much: it goes down to me!
I'm so glad he can't tolerate me, she told me about him.
She was right, because Levin really couldn’t tolerate her, and he disregarded for what she was proud of and what she put herself in dignity – for her nervousness, for her subtle disregard and indifference to everything cruel and vital.
It has been established that frequently encountered relationship between Nordstone and Levine that two people, remaining in appearance friendly relationships, neglect each other to such a degree that they can’t even seriously—but treat each other and can’t even be offended each other.
Countess Nordstone immediately jumped on Levine.
A! Constantine Dmitry!
“They came again to our devastating Babylon,” she said, giving him a little yellow hand and remembering his words said somehow at the beginning of the winter that Moscow is Babylon. - What, Babylon has corrected or you have broken up? She added, with a smile looking at Kitty.
“It’s very easy for me, Countess, that you remember my words so much,” Levin replied, who was able to recover and now on the habit of getting into his joke attitude to Countess Nordstone. They work very hard on you.
Oh how well! I record everything.
Well, Kitty, you’ve been on the horses again?
She began to talk to Kitty.
Whatever it was uncomfortable for Levin to leave now, it was easier for him to do this discomfort than to stay all night and see Kitty, who suddenly looked at him and avoided his sight.
He wanted to stand up, but the princess, seeing that he was silent, turned to him:
Have you been to Moscow for a long time?
After all, you seem to be engaged in the world, and you can’t take a long time.
“No, princess, I’m not doing the land anymore,” he said. I came for a few days.
“There’s something special about him,” thought Countess Nordstone, looking into his strict, serious face, “there’s something he doesn’t get into his considerations.
But I will take him out. I really like to make him a fool before Kitty, and I’ll do it.”
“Konstantin Dmitrić,” she said to him, “tell me, please, what it means, you all know this, we have in the Kaluj village all the men and all the grandmothers all overwhelmed what they had, and now they don’t pay us anything.
What does that mean?
You always praise men.
At that time, the lady went into the room, and Levin stood up.
“Sorry to me, Countess, but I am right, I don’t know anything about it and I can’t tell you anything,” he said and looked at the soldier who was following the lady.
“This must be Vronsky,” Levin thought and, to make sure, looked at Kitty.
She already managed to look at Vronsky and looked at Levin.
And at one point of view of her unwillingly glowing eyes, Levin realized that she loved that man, he realized as true as if she had told him these words.
But what is this man?
Now, whether it’s good or bad, Levin couldn’t stay, he had to know what man she loved for.
There are people who, by encountering their happy rival in anything, are now ready to turn away from all the good that is in it, and see in it one evil; there are people who, on the contrary, most desire to find in this happy rival the qualities that he has defeated them and seek in it with tremendous pain in the heart of one good.
Levin belonged to such people.
But it was not difficult for him to find a good and attractive in Vronsk.
It was immediately thrown into his eyes.
Vronsky was a low, tightly composed brunette, with a gentle and beautiful, extremely quiet and solid face.
In his face and figure, from a shortly cut black hair and a fresh shell to a wide with the needle of the new mount, everything was simple and together elegant.
Giving the way to the lady entering, Vronsky came to the princess and then to Kitty.
While he approached her, his beautiful eyes blinked gently, and with a slightly remarkable happy and humble smile (this appeared to Levine), respectfully and cautiously inclined over her, he stretched her his small but wide hand.
With all he greeted and said a few words, he sat down, never looking at the eyes of Levin that had not fallen from him.
“Let’s let you know,” said the princess, indicating Levine. Constantine Dmitrych Levin. Count Aleksei Kirilovich Vronsky.
Vronsky stood up and, gently looking into the eyes of Levin, stretched his hand.
“Today in the winter I was supposed to have lunch with you,” he said, smiling with his simple and open smile, “but you suddenly left the village.
“Konstantin Dmitrych hates and hates the city and us, citizens,” Countess Northstone said.
“My words must have a strong effect on you, that you remember them so much,” said Levin and, remembering that he had already said it before, reddened.
Wronsky looked at Levin and Countess Nordstone and smiled.
Are you always in the village? He asked him. I think winter is boring.
“It’s not boring if there’s lessons, and it’s not boring with itself,” Levin replied sharply.
“I love the village,” said Vronsky, noticing and making the sight that he does not notice the tone of Levin.
“But I hope, Count, that you would not agree to live always in the village,” Countess Northston said.
I don’t know, I haven’t tried for a long time.
I felt a strange feeling, he continued. “I didn’t miss anywhere in the village, the Russian village, with the legs and the men, as I lived with my mother’s winter in Nice.
Nina is boring, you know.
Yes and Naples, Sorrento is good only for a short time. And that’s where Russia is especially remembered, and that’s the village.
They are exactly like...
He spoke, addressing both Kitty and Levin and translating from one to another his quiet and friendly look, he said, obviously, that came into mind.
Noting that Countess Nordstone wanted to say something, he stopped. I didn’t tell you what it started, and I began to listen to it carefully.
The conversation did not hesitate for a minute, so that the old princess, who always had about the stock, in the event of the lack of the theme, had two heavy instruments: classical and real education and general military duty, did not have to raise them, and the cousin Nordstone did not have to raise Levin.
Levin wanted and could not enter a joint conversation; every minute saying to himself, “Today go,” he didn’t go, waiting for something.
The conversation came about rotating tables and spirits, and Countess Nordstone, believing in spiritism, began to tell the miracles she saw.
Oh, Countess, you must bring me to them, for the sake of God.
I’ve never seen anything unusual, though I find it everywhere, with a smile, Wronsky said.
“Good, next Saturday,” said Countess Nordstone. But do you, Konstantin Dmitrych, believe? She asked Levi.
Why do you ask me?
You know what I will say.
I want to hear your opinion.
“My opinion is only that,” Levin replied, “these rotating tables prove that the so-called educated society is not above the men.
They believe in the eyes, and in the shadows, and in the shadows, and we...
What, you don’t believe?
I can’t believe, Count.
What if I saw myself?
And the grandmothers tell how they saw the households themselves.
Do you think I am saying the truth? And she laughed stupidly.
“No, Masha, Konstantin Dmitrych says he can’t believe,” said Kitty, red for Levin, and Levin understood it and, even more irritated, wanted to answer, but with his open and joyful smile, Vronsky has now come to help the conversation, threatening to become unpleasant.
Do you don’t allow the possibility? He asked him. Why not?
We allow the existence of electricity that we don’t know; why can’t there be a new force, unknown to us yet, which...
“When electricity was found, it was only an open phenomenon, and it was unknown where it came from and what it produces, and centuries passed before it was thought to be applied.
The spirits, on the contrary, began with the fact that the tables wrote to them and the spirits came to them, and then they began to say that this is an unknown force.
Vronsky listened carefully to Levin, as he always listened, obviously interested in his words.
“Yes, but the spirits say: now we don’t know what it is for force, but there is force, and here’s under what conditions it works.
Let the scientists reveal what this power consists in.
No, I don’t see why it can’t be a new force if it...
- And that's why, - said Levin, - that with electricity every time you smell the shell, a known phenomenon is found, and here not every time it has become a natural phenomenon.
Probably, feeling that the conversation takes too serious for the living nature, Vronsky didn’t object, and, trying to change the subject of the conversation, gladly smiled and turned to the ladies.
“Let’s try now, Count,” he started, but Levin wanted to tell what he thought.
“I think,” he continued, “that this spirits’ attempt to explain their wonders with some new force is the most unsuccessful.
They speak directly about the power of spirits and want to submit it to material experience.
Everyone was waiting for him to finish, and he felt that.
“And I think you’re going to be a great media,” Countess Nordstone said, “you have something enthusiastic.
Levin opened his mouth, wanted to say something, reddened and said nothing.
“Let’s try the tables now, princess, please,” Vronsky said. Princess, do you allow it? And Vronsky stood, looking for the table with his eyes.
Kitty stood up behind the table and, passing through, met with the eyes of Levin.
Her whole soul was sad for him, even more that she regretted him in the misfortune that she herself was causing.
“If you can forgive me, forgive me,” she said, “I’m so happy.”
“I hate everyone, both you and myself,” his eyes answered, and he took his hat.
But he had no fate to leave.
They just wanted to settle around the table, and Levin left, as the old prince entered and, greeting the ladies, turned to Levin.
He started with joy. For a long time?
I didn’t know that you were here.
I am glad to see you.
The old prince sometimes said “you” and sometimes “you” to Levine. He hugged Levin and, speaking to him, did not notice Vronsky, who stood up and quietly waited for the prince to turn to him.
Kitty felt that after what happened, his father’s kindness was heavy to Levin.
She also saw how cold her father, finally, replied to the gift of Vronsky and how Vronsky with friendly confusion looked at her father, trying to understand and not understand how and for what it was possible to be unfriendly placed to him, and she reddened.
“Prince, forgive us Constantine Dmitry,” Countess Nordstone said. We want experience to do.
What experience? Turn the tables?
“Well, apologize to me, ladies and gentlemen, but I think it’s more fun to play in the wheel,” said the old prince, looking at Vronsky and guessing that he got it. There is no sense in the wheel.
Wronsky looked at the prince with surprising eyes and, slightly smiling, immediately talked to the Countess of Nordstone about the big ball coming next week.
I hope you will be? He turned to Kitty.
As soon as the old prince turned away from him, Levin unnoticably went out, and the last impression he made from that evening was the smiling, happy face of Kitty, who replied to Vronsky on his question about the ball.
When the evening ended, Kitty told her mother about her conversation with Levin, and despite all the regret she experienced to Levin, she was pleased with the idea that she was given an offer.
She had no doubt that she did as it was. But in bed she couldn’t sleep for a long time.
One impression continuously persecuted her.
It was the face of Levin, with the swallowed bridges, and the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness of the darkness. And she was so sad that her tears turned to her eyes.
But immediately she thought about who she changed him.
She lively remembered that courageous, solid face, that noble tranquility and glowing in all kindness to all; she remembered the love of herself of the one she loved, and she again became joyful in her soul, and she with a smile of happiness slept on her pocket. Sorry, sorry, but what to do?
I’m not guilty,” she said to herself, but her inner voice said something else. Whether she was scared that she took Levin, or that she refused, she didn’t know.
But her happiness was poisoned by doubts. “Lord mercy, Lord mercy, Lord mercy!” She talked about herself while she slept.
At that time down, in the little cabinet of the prince, one of the often repeated scenes occurred among the parents for the beloved daughter.
What?
This is what! The prince cried, stretching his hands and immediately smelling his white dress. That you don’t have pride, the merit that you’ll be ashamed, lose your daughter with this wrath, foolish, stupid!
So, for the sake of God, Prince, what have I done? The princess said, I was almost crying.
She, happy, pleased after a conversation with her daughter, came to the prince to apologize according to the usual, although she did not intend to tell him about the proposal of Levin and the refusal of Kitty, but indicated to her husband that she thought the deal with Vronsky was completely over, that it would decide as soon as his mother arrived.
And then, on these words, the prince suddenly swallowed up and began to scream unpleasant words.
What have you done?
And that’s what: first of all, you’re deceiving the bride, and all Moscow will speak, and reasonably.
If you do the evening, call all, not the chosen brides.
Call all of these pigs (this is how the prince called the young people of Moscow), call the taper, let the bottle, and not the same as today, the pigs, and put it down.
I saw it cold, cold, and you succeeded, rounded the head of the girl.
Levin is a thousand times better man.
And this is the French of St. Petersburg, they are made in the car, they are all on one stand, and they are all drunk.
Even if he was a blood prince, my daughter doesn’t need anyone!
What did I do?
The prince shouted with anger.
“I know that if the princess is listening to you, we will never marry the daughter. If so, you have to go to the village.
It is better to leave.
to stand.
Am I searching?
I am not looking for. And the young man, and very good, fell in love, and she seems...
That’s what you think!
And how does she really fall in love, and he thinks to marry as much as I do?
Oh the! I’t see my eyes!
“Ah, spiritism, oh, Nice, oh, on the ball...” – And the prince, imagining that he represents a wife, sat on every word. But here's how we'll do Katynka's misfortune, how she's actually going to get into her head...
Why do you think?
I don’t think, but I know; it’s our eyes, not our grandmother.
I see a man who has serious intentions, this is Levin; and I see a transpelled like this sculptor, to whom it is just to have fun.
Well, you’ll get into your head...
But you will remember, too late, as with the Daesh.
“Well, well, well, we’re not going to talk,” the princess stopped him, remembering the unhappy Dolly.
And great, and goodbye!
And, crossing each other and kissing, but feeling that everyone remained with their opinion, the spouses split.
The princess was first firmly convinced that this evening decided the fate of Kitty and that there can be no doubt in the intentions of Vronsky; but her husband’s words disturbed her. And when she returned to herself, she, just like Kitty, with fear of the unknownness of the future, repeated several times in her soul: "Lord mercy, Lord mercy, Lord mercy!"
Vronsky never knew family life.
His mother was in his youth a brilliant secular woman, who had during marriage, and especially after, many novels known throughout the world.
He almost didn’t remember his father and was raised in the Paja Corps.
When a very young, brilliant officer left the school, he immediately got into the wing of the rich Petersburg military.
Although he travelled from time to time to the Petersburg light, all his love interests were out of the light.
In Moscow, for the first time he experienced, after a luxurious and rough Petersburg life, the beauty of the proximity with a worldly cute and innocent girl who loved him.
He didn’t even think that there could be something bad in his relationship with Kitty.
On the balls he danced with her; he walked to them in the house.
He talked to her what they usually say in the light, any blow, but blow, which he accidentally gave a special meaning to her.
Despite the fact that he didn’t tell her anything that he couldn’t say at all, he felt that she was becoming more and more dependent on him, and the more he felt, the more pleasant he was, and his feeling for her became more gentle.
He didn’t know that his pattern of action with regard to Kitty has a certain name, that it’s a blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous blasphemous.
He seemed to be the first to discover this pleasure, and he his discovery.
If he could hear what her parents said tonight, if he could move to the family’s point of view and find out that Kitty would be unhappy, if he didn’t marry her, he would be very surprised and would not believe it.
He could not believe that what brought such great and good pleasure to him, and most importantly to him, could be bad.
Even less he could believe that he should marry.
Marriage was never an opportunity for him.
He not only did not love family life, but in the family, and especially in his husband, in the general view of the cool world in which he lived, he imagined something strange, hostile, and more – funny.
But although Vronsky was not suspicious of what his parents said, he, leaving this evening from Scherbatsky, felt that the spiritual secret connection that existed between him and Kitty, was so strongly established this evening that it was necessary to do something But what was possible and what was to do, he could not invent.
“It was beautiful,” he thought, returning from the Scherbacks and carrying out from them, as always, the pleasant sense of purity and freshness, which arose in part and from the fact that he didn’t smoke all night, and together a new sense of compassion before her with love, — it was beautiful that nothing was said either by me or by her, but we so understood each other in this invisible conversation of views and intonations, that now clearer than ever, she told me that she loves. And how nice, simple and, most importantly, trustworthy!
I feel better, cleaner.
I feel that I have a heart and that there is a lot of good in me.
These cute loving eyes! When she said, “and very...”
“Well what?
Well and nothing.
I’m well, and she’s well...” And he wondered where he’s going to finish this evening.
He throwed the imagination of the place where he could go.
The club? Shampoo with Ignatov?
No, I will not go.
Chateau de fleurs, there will I find Oblonsky, couplets, cancan?
No, it is tired.
That’s why I love Sherbacks, that’s why I’m doing it better.
I will go home.”
He went straight to his room with Dussos, ordered to give himself dinner and then, separated, only managed to put his head on a bowl, slept a strong and quiet, as always, sleep.
On the other day, at 11 a.m., Vronsky went out to the St. Petersburg Railway Station to meet his mother, and the first person that got him on the stairs of the big staircase was Oblonsky, waiting for his sister with the same train.
A! Your brightness! — screamed Oblonsky. You are for whom?
- I follow my mother, - smiling, like all those who met with Oblonsky, Vronsky replied, - pressing his hand and climbing up the staircase with him. She must be from St. Petersburg.
I was waiting for you for two hours. Where did you go from Sherlock Holmes?
“Home,” Wronsky replied. Recognize, I was so happy yesterday after Sherbatsky that I didn’t want anywhere.
“I know the horses of the rets by some of their tavers, the youths of the beloved I know by their eyes,” Stepan Arkadić declared precisely as before Levin.
Wronsky smiled in such a way that he did not deny it, but immediately changed the conversation. Who do you meet? He asked him.
I am? I am a good woman, — said Oblonsky,
This is how!
Honni soit qui mal y pense.
and sister Anna.
Is it Karenina? Wronsky said.
You know her, right?
It seems, I know.
Or not...
Right, I don't remember, - Wronsky answered divergently, confusingly imagining himself in the name of Karenina something crazy and boring.
- But Alexey Alexandrovich, my famous uncle, you know.
The whole world knows him.
I know it from reputation and view.
I know he’s smart, scientist, divine something... but you know it’s not in my line... not in my line,” Wronsky said.
“Yes, he is a very wonderful man; a little conservative, but a glorious man,” Stepan Arkadić noticed, “a glorious man.
- Well, and the better for him, - said Vronsky smiling. “And you are here,” he turned to the high old mother’s lake standing at the door, “be here.
Vronsky in this recent time, in addition to the common pleasure of Stepan Arkadić, felt attached to him by the fact that he in his imagination connected with Kiti.
Do we do dinner for the wild on Sunday? He told him, with a smile taking him under his hand.
Certainly. I will collect the signature.
Have you met my friend Lewin yesterday? Asked by Stepan Arkadić.
as well.
But he was soon leaving something.
“He’s a glorious little boy,” continued Oblonsky. isn’t it true?
“I don’t know,” Wronsky replied, “why this is in all the Mosquitians, of course, with the exception of those with whom I’m talking,” he laughingly insisted, “there’s something sharp.
Something they all become, they are angry, as if they all want to make something feel.
“It’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s.
What, is it soon? Vronsky addressed the servant.
The train came out, the employee answered.
The approaching of the train was more and more marked by the movement of preparations at the station, the running of the artillery, the appearance of gendarmes and servants and the arrival of the meetings.
Through the frozen pair, the workers were seen in halves, in soft wrapped socks, passing through the rails of the hurting roads. I heard the sound of a steam on the remote rails and moving something heavy.
- No, - said Stephan Arkadić, who very much wanted to tell Vronsky about Levin's intentions regarding Kitty. - No, you wrongly assessed my Levin.
He is a very nervous person and is unpleasant, right, but sometimes he is very kind.
It is so honest, true nature, and the heart is golden.
But yesterday there were special reasons — with a significant smile continued Stepan Arkadić, completely forgetting the sincere sympathy he experienced yesterday to his friend, and now experiencing the same, only to Vronsky. Yes, there was a reason why he could be either happy or unhappy.
Vronsky stopped and asked directly:
That is what?
Or did he offer your belle soeur yesterday?
“Maybe,” said Stepan Arkadić. Something seemed like that yesterday.
Yes, if he left early and was not in the spirit yet, then it was so...
He has been in love for a long time and I am sorry for him.
This is how!
I think, on the other hand, she can count on the best party,” Vronsky said and, stretching his chest, again began to walk. I don’t know him, he added. Yes, this is a difficult situation!
Most people prefer to get acquainted with Clary.
There failure only proves that you lack money, and here your dignity is on the weights.
Here is the train.
Indeed, the train has already gone far. A few minutes later, the platform broke down, and, smelling the broken book from the freezing by the steam, the train passed with a slowly and moderate and stretching middle wheel rope and with a wrapping, binding, wrapped machine; and behind the tender, the slowly and more stunning platform, the wagon with the baggage and with the wrapping dog began to pass; finally, wrapping before the stop, the passenger wagons arrived.
The young conductor, on the way giving a swist, jumped, and the untolerant passengers followed him one by one: the guard officer, staying straight and strictly looking at himself; the helmet shopper with a bag, gladly smiling; the man with a bag through his shoulder.
Vronsky, standing next to Oblonsky, looked at the wagons and the outgoing and completely forgot about his mother.
What he now learned about Kitty excited and pleased him.
His chest was unwillingly stretched, and his eyes glowed. He felt a winner.
- Count Vronskaya in this department, - said the young conductor, goes to Vronskaya.
The words of the conductor awakened him and forced him to remember the mother and the upcoming meeting with her.
He in his soul did not respect the mother and, without giving himself in that report, did not love her, although according to the concepts of the circle in which he lived, according to his own education, he could not imagine the other to the mother's attitude, as in the highest degree obedient and respectful, and the more externally obedient and respectful, the less in the soul he respected and loved her.
Vronsky followed the conductor in the wagon and at the entrance to the department stopped to give the way to the outgoing lady.
With the usual touch of the world man, in one look at the appearance of this lady, Vronsky determined her belonging to the higher light.
He apologized and went to the wagon, but he felt the need to look at her again — not because she was very beautiful, not because of the elegance and humble grace that were visible in her whole figure, but because in the expression of a gentle face, when she passed through him, there was something gentle and gentle.
When he looked, she also turned her head.
The brilliant, seeming dark from the thick cracks, grey eyes friendly, carefully stopped on his face, as if she had recognised him, and immediately moved to the crowd coming, as if she was looking for someone.
In this short look, Vronsky managed to notice the restrained vibration that played in her face and broke between her bright eyes and a slightly noticeable smile, throwing her rubble lips.
As if the excess of something so exhausted her being, that through her will it was expressed in the glow of the sight, in the smile.
She deliberately shut down the light in her eyes, but he glowed against her will in a slightly noticeable smile.
Vronsky entered the wagon.
His mother, a dry old woman with black eyes and bulbs, shrinked, looking at his son, and slightly smiled with thin lips.
Rise out of the sofa and delivered the sandbox, she gave a small dry hand to her son and, lifting his head out of his hand, kissed him in the face.
Have you received a telegram?
Healthy?
Glory to God.
Have you arrived well? - said the son, sitting under her and deliberately listening to the woman's voice outside the door.
He knew that it was the voice of the lady who met him at the entrance.
“I don’t agree with you,” said the voice of the lady.
The St. Petersburg view, the strike.
“It’s not Petersburg, it’s just female,” she replied.
Let me kiss your hand.
To meet, Ivan Petrovich. Let’s see if the brother is not here, and send him to me,” said the lady at the door and went into the room again.
Have you found your brother? - said Vronskaya, addressing the lady.
Wronsky now remembered that it was Karenina.
Your brother is here, he said, standing up. - Sorry, I didn't know you, and our acquaintance was so short, - said Vronsky, worshipping, - that you really don't remember me.
“Oh, no,” she said, “I would know you because we and your mother seemed to have talked about you all the way,” she said, allowing, finally, the exciting outdoors to be expressed in a smile. But my brother is not.
“Call him, Alisha,” said the old Countess.
Vronsky came out on the platform and cried: - Oblonsky!
Here is!
But Karenina didn’t wait for her brother, and when she saw him, she made a decisive easy step out of the wagon.
And as soon as her brother approached her, she by the movement that hit Vronsky with her determination and grace, hugged her brother with the left hand for the neck, quickly attracted to herself and strongly kissed.
Wronsky, without leaving his eyes, looked at her and, without knowing what, smiled.
But remembering that his mother was waiting for him, he went into the wagon again.
Isn’t it true, very cute? The Count said about Karenina. Her husband planted with me, and I was very happy.
We talked to her all the way.
You filez le parfait amour.
So much better, so much better.
“I don’t know what you’re suggesting, mom,” the son answered cold. Mom, we’re going.
Karenina went into the wagon again to say goodbye to the graphene.
“Well, Countess, you’ve met a son, and I’m a brother,” she said gladly. And all my stories were exhausted; nothing else would be to be told.
“No, no,” said the Count, taking her in the hand, “I would walk around the world with you, and I would not get tired.
You are one of those cute women with whom both talk and silence is pleasant. And about your son, please do not think: you cannot never be separated.
Karenina stood stable, kept extremely straight, and her eyes smiled.
“Anna Arkadievna has a son of eight years, it seems, and she’s never divorced from him, and it’s sad that she’s left him.
“Yes, we were talking all the time with the cousin, I was about my own, she was about my son,” said Karenina, and again a smile illuminated her face, a pleasant smile treated to him.
“It’s probably very tired for you,” he said, now, in the summer, capturing the cocktail ball she’s thrown on him.
But she obviously did not want to continue the conversation in this tone and addressed the old graffiti:
I thank you very much.
I didn’t see how I spent yesterday.
To meet, the Count.
“Goodbye, my friend,” the Count answered.
Let you kiss your beautiful face.
I just say, from old age, that I loved you.
Regardless of what this phrase was, Karenina apparently believed and was pleased with it.
She reddened, slightly swallowed, put her face on the lips of the graphene, again stretched, and with the same smile, worried between her lips and her eyes, gave her hand to Vronsky.
He greeted the little hand given to him, and, as something special, he was pleased with that energetic compassion with which he strongly and boldly stretched his hand.
She went out a fast walk, so strange easily wearing her quite full body.
“It’s very nice,” said the old woman.
The same thought her son.
He sparked her with her eyes until her gracious figure was hidden, and a smile stopped on his face.
In the window he saw she approached her brother, put her hand on his hand, and something lively began to say to him, obviously about something that had nothing to do with him, with Vronsky, and it seemed boring to him.
Mom, are you completely healthy? He repeated, calling to his mother.
Everything is good, wonderful.
Alexandre was very kind. And Mary was very good.
She is very interesting.
And again she began to tell about what interested her most, about the grandson’s crosses for which she travelled to St. Petersburg, and about the special mercy of the governor to her older son.
- Here is Lavrentius, - said Vronsky, looking in the window, - now go, if you want.
The old palace, driving with the cousin, appeared in the wagon to report that everything was ready, and the cousin got up to go.
“Let’s go, now there’s little people,” Wronsky said.
The girl took the bag and the dog, the palace and the artillery other bags.
Wronsky took his mother under his hand; but when they had already gone out of the wagon, suddenly a few people with scared faces fled.
The head of the station also flew in his unusual color feed.
Obviously something unusual happened.
The people fled back from the train.
What?
What?
Where?
It broke out! It was!! I heard between the passers.
Stephan Arkadić with his sister under his hand, also with scared faces, returned and stopped, escaping the people, at the entrance to the wagon.
The ladies entered the wagon, and Vronsky and Stepan Arkadić went to the people to find out the details of the misfortune.
Whether he was drunk or overwhelmed by a strong cold, he did not hear the train moved back, and he was broken down.
Even before Vronsky and Oblonsky returned, the ladies learned these details from the palace.
Oblonsky and Vronsky both saw a disguised body.
Oblonsky seemed to suffer.
He swallowed and seemed to be ready to cry.
Oh, what a horror!
Oh Anna, if you could see it!
What a horror! He has condemned.
Vronsky was silent, and his beautiful face was serious, but completely quiet.
“Oh, if you could see, Count,” said Stephan Arkadić. His wife is here...
It is terrible to see her.
She dropped on the body.
They say he alone fed a huge family.
This is horror!
Can you do something for her? In an exciting scream, Karenina said.
Vronsky looked at her and immediately went out of the wagon.
“I’m going to come now, mom,” he added, turning in the door.
When he returned a few minutes later, Stephan Arkadić had already talked to the Countess about the new singer, and the Countess desperately looked at the door waiting for his son.
“Now let’s go,” Wronsky said, entering. They went out together.
Vronsky walked forward with his mother. Karenina went back with her brother.
At the exit to Vronsky came the head of the station.
- You gave my assistant two hundred rubles.
Do you try to indicate who you are appointing them?
“Vadows,” said Vronsky, swallowed with his shoulders. I don’t understand what to ask.
Did you give? - Oblonsky screamed behind and, pressing the sister's hand, added: Very cute, very cute!
Isn’t it true, glorious little?
My honor, the Count. And he and his sister stopped looking for her girlfriend.
When they came out, the Vronsky car was already leaving.
The people who came out still talked about what happened.
- This is a terrible death! - said a man passing through. They say two pieces.
“I think, on the contrary, the easiest, instantaneous one,” another noticed.
“If this does not take measures,” said the third.
Karenina sat in the caret, and Stephan Arkadić was surprised to see her lips drunk and she was hard to hold her tears.
What about you, Anna? He asked when they left a few hundred saints.
“It’s a crazy sign,” she said.
- What a fool! - said Stephan Arkadić. You’ve come, that’s the main thing.
You can’t imagine how I hope for you.
Do you know Vronsky for a long time? She asked.
and yes.
You know, we hope that he will marry Kitty.
Yes? Anna said quietly. “Well, now let me talk about you,” she added, throwing her head, as if she wanted to physically pull out something excessive and disturbing her. Let me talk about your affairs...
I got your letter and here I came.
“Yes, all hope is on you,” said Stepan Arkadić.
Tell me everything.
Stephan Arkadic began to tell.
Into the house, Oblonsky put out his sister, breathed up, grew her hand and went to the presence.
When Anna entered the room, Dolly was sitting in a small living room with a white-haired, now-like father-like boy, and listening to his lesson from French reading.
The boy was reading, turning in his hand and trying to remove the slightly stumbling puddle of the jacket.
My mother took the hand several times, but the dirty handheld took the pudding again.
My mother dropped the pudding and put it in the pocket.
“Calm your hand, Grisha,” she said, and again took her cover, the old work she was always taking for in difficult minutes, and now she wrapped nervously, throwing her finger and counting the fingers.
Although she told her husband yesterday that she had nothing to do before her sister would come or not, she prepared everything for her arrival and waited with enthusiasm.
Dolly was killed by her anger, and everything was absorbed by him.
However, she remembered that Anna, a gentleman, was the wife of one of the most important persons in St. Petersburg and the great lady of St. Petersburg.
And because of this circumstance, she did not meet the said husband, that is, she did not forget that the bull would come.
“Yes, finally, Anna is not guilty of anything,” Dolly thought. “I don’t know anything about her except the best, and I saw from her only grace and friendship to myself.”
The truth is, how much she could remember her impression in St. Petersburg with the Kareninians, she didn’t like their own home; something was false in all of their family life.
“But why do I not accept her?
If she didn’t think she would comfort me! – Dolly thought. “All comforts, warnings, and forgiveness are Christian – all of this I have overthinked a thousand times, and all of this doesn’t fit.”
All these days Dolly was alone with the children.
She didn’t want to talk about her evil, and with that evil in her soul she couldn’t talk about the stranger.
She knew that, in any way, she would tell Anna everything, and then she was pleased with the thought of how she would say, the evil need to talk about her humiliation to her, her sister, and to hear from her ready phrases of warning and comfort.
She, as often it happens, looked at the clock, waited for her every minute and missed exactly where the guest came, so she didn’t hear the call.
Hearing the noise of clothes and light steps already in the doors, she looked around, and on her tortured face she unwillingly expressed not joy, but surprise.
She stood up and hugged the puppy.
How did she come? She said, kissing her.
Dolly, I am so glad to see you!
“And I’m glad,” she smiled slightly and tried to see if she knew Anna’s face, Dolly said.
“Well, you know,” she thought, noticing a compassion on Anna’s face. “Well, let’s go, I’ll take you to your room,” she continued, trying to give away as much as possible minute of explanation.
Is it Grizzly?
My God, how he grew up! — said Anna and, kissing him, not leaving her eyes from Dolly, stopped and reddened. No, let’s not go anywhere.
She pulled out the plate, the hat, and, catching her for her black, everywhere shining hair, mounting her head, cut off her hair.
- And you shine with happiness and health! - said Dolly almost with jealousy.
I??
Yes, said Anna. My God, Tania!
The boyfriend Seret to me, — she added, addressing the escaped girl. She took her on her hands and kissed her. A beautiful girl, a beautiful girl!
Show me all.
She called them and reminded not only the names, but the years, the months, the characters, the diseases of all the children, and Dolly couldn’t miss it.
“Well, let’s go to them,” she said. She is sleeping now, unfortunately.
Looking at the children, they sat, already alone, in the living room, in front of the coffee.
Anna took the lift and then pulled it off.
“Dolly,” she said, “he told me.
Dolly looked cold at Anna.
She was now waiting for compassionate phrases; but Anna did not say anything like that.
“Dolly, dear!” she said, “I don’t want to speak for him or comfort you; it’s not possible. I am sorry, I am sorry, I am sorry, I am sorry, I am sorry!
Due to the thick wrinkles of her bright eyes suddenly appeared tears.
She moved closer to the bride and took her hand with her energic little hand.
Dolly didn’t get away, but her face didn’t change her dry expression.
She said:
You cannot comfort me.
Everything was lost after what was, everything was lost!
And once she said this, the expression of her face suddenly calmed.
Anna raised Dolly's dry, weak hand, kissed her and said:
But, Dolly, what to do, what to do?
How can we get better in this terrible situation? This is what you have to think about.
“Everything is over, and nothing more,” Dolly said. “And worst of all, you will understand that I can’t leave it; children, I’m connected.
I can't live with him, I'm sad to see him.
Dolly, the bull, he told me, but I want to hear from you, tell me everything.
Dolly looked at her questionfully.
Participation and love untouchable were visible on the face of Anna.
— Sorry — suddenly she said. But I will say first.
You know how I got married.
I was not only innocent with my mother’s education, but I was stupid I didn’t know anything.
They say, I know, the spouses tell their wives their past life, but Steve... she’s recovered, Stephan Arkadić didn’t tell me anything.
You won’t believe, but I still thought I was the one woman he knew.
So I lived eight years.
You understand that I not only did not suspect unbelief, but that I thought it was impossible, and here, imagine yourself, with such concepts to know suddenly all the horror, all the foolishness...
You understand me.
Be confident quite in her compassion, and suddenly... – continued Dolly, holding the grid, – and get a letter... his letter to her lover, to my governor.
No, it is too horrible! She quickly pulled out the plate and closed her face. “I understand the passion,” she continued, silent, “but thoughtfully, it is smart to deceive me... with whom?
To continue to be my husband with her...it’s terrible! You can’t understand...
No, I understand it! I understand, dear Dolly, I understand, — said Anna, pressing her hand.
And you think he understands all the horror of my situation? She continued Dolly. Not a lot!
He is happy and happy.
Oh no no! And Anna quickly passed. He’s sorry, he’s killed by regret.
Is he able to regret? She crossed Dolly, looking carefully into the face of the puppy.
Yes, I know him.
I couldn’t look at him without regret.
We both know him.
He is good, but he is proud, and now so humiliated.
The main thing that touched me (and here Anna imagined the main thing that could touch Dolly) -- he is tortured by two things: that he’s shameful for his children, and that he’s loving you... yes, yes, loving the most in the world. She quickly broke over that she wanted to object to Dolly, - made you hurt, killed you.
“No, no, she will not forgive,” he says.
Dolly thoughtfully looked around the hole, listening to her words.
“Yes, I understand that his position is terrible; the guilty is worse than the innocent,” she said, “if he feels that his fault is all misfortune.
But how can I forgive, how can I be his wife again after her?
I will be sad to live with him now, just because I love my past love for him.
And the wrath interrupted her words,
But as if it was intentionally, every time she calmed, she began to talk again about what irritated her.
“She’s young because she’s beautiful,” she continued. Do you know, Anna, that my youth and beauty have been taken by anyone?
He and his children.
I have served him, and all of my has gone to this service, and he now, of course, is more pleasant to the fresh past being.
They were talking to each other about me, or even worse, they were silent, you understand? Her eyes were burned again with hatred. And then he will tell me...
Would I believe him?
never.
No, everything is over, everything that was comfort, labor reward, suffering...
Will you believe? I now taught Grisha: before it was joy, now it is torture.
Why do I try and work?
Why children?
It is terrible that suddenly my soul turned and instead of love, my delicacy to him has one evil, yes, evil.
I would kill him and...
Dolly, I understand, but don’t torture myself.
You are so insulted, so excited that you see many things wrong.
Dolly silenced, and they silenced for two minutes.
What to do, think, Anna, help me.
I have changed my mind and I don’t see anything.
Anna couldn’t invent anything, but her heart reacted directly to every word, to every expression of the bride’s face.
I will say one thing, I am his sister, I know his character, this ability to forget everything (he made a gesture in front of his forehead), this ability of full enthusiasm, but also of full regret.
He doesn’t believe, he doesn’t understand now how he could do what he did.
He understands, he understands, he understands, he understands, he understands. But I... you... you forget me... is it easier for me?
The post.
When he told me, I admit to you, I didn’t understand all the horror of your situation yet.
I only saw him and that the family was angry; I was sad, but when I spoke to you, I, as a woman, see another; I see your suffering, and I can't tell you how sad you!
But, Dolly, my soul, I understand your suffering well, only one I don’t know: I don’t know... I don’t know how much more love is in your soul for him.
You know, there is enough to be forgiven.
If so, forgive me!
“No,” Dolly began, but Anna broke her, kissing her hand again.
“I know you more than the light,” she said. I know these people as Steve, how they look at it.
You say he talked to her about you.
This was not.
These people do unbelief, but their home focus and their wife is a saint for them.
Somehow, these women remain neglected and do not interfere with the family.
They have a distinction between the family and this.
I don’t understand it, but that’s so.
He kissed her...
Dolly, stand up and shower.
I saw Steve when he was in love with you.
I remember that time when he came to me and cried about you, and what poetry and height you were for him, and I know that the more he lived with you, the higher you became for him.
We laughed at him that he added to every word, “Dolly is a wonderful woman.”
You have always been and remained a god for him, and this passion is not his soul.
What if this enthusiasm repeats?
It cannot, as I understand.
Yes, but would you forgive?
I don’t know I can’t judge.
No, I can, — said Anna, thinking; and, capturing the thought position and hanging it on the inner weights, she added: No, I can, I can, I can.
I would forgive.
I would not be the same, yes, but I would forgive, and I would forgive as if it wasn’t, it wasn’t at all.
“Well, of course,” Dolly quickly stopped, as if she was saying what she thought a few times – otherwise it would not be forgiveness.
If I forgive, all, all.
Well, let’s go, I’ll take you to your room,” she said, standing up, and on the way Dolly hugged Anna. My dear, I am so glad you came here.
It was easier for me, much easier.
All this day Anna spent at home, i.e. at Oblonsky, and did not receive anyone, since some of her acquaintances, having learned about her arrival, came on that same day.
Anna spent all the morning with Dolly and the kids. She only sent a note to her brother, so that he should have lunch at home.
“Come, God of Mercy,” she wrote.
Oblonsky had lunch at home; the conversation was common, and his wife spoke with him, calling him "you", which was not before.
The relationship between his husband and his wife remained the same isolation, but there was no talk of divorce, and Stephan Arkadić saw the possibility of explanation and reconciliation.
After lunch, Kitty arrived.
She knew Anna Arkadievna, but very little, and was now driving to her sister not without fear of receiving her by this St. Petersburg secular lady, whom everyone so praised.
But she liked Anna Arkadievne, it’s what she has seen now.
Anna obviously loved her beauty and youth, and Kitty failed to remember how she already felt not only under her influence, but felt in love with her, how young girls in married and older women are able to fall in love.
Anna was unlike a secular lady or the mother of an eight-year-old son, but it would rather be a twenty-year-old girl by the flexibility of movements, the freshness and the revitalization established on her face, blowing it into a smile, then in the sight, if not a serious, sometimes sad expression of her eyes, which hit and attracted Kitty.
Kitty felt that Anna was completely simple and nothing hidden, but that there was another kind of higher world of interests unavailable to her, complex and poetic.
After lunch, when Dolly went out to her room, Anna quickly got up and approached her brother who smoked a cigarette.
“Steve,” she said to him, joyfully swallowing, baptizing him and pointing to the door with his eyes. Go and help God.
He dropped the cigarette, understood it, and hid behind the door.
When Stephan Arkadić left, she returned to the sofa, where she was sitting surrounded by children.
Whether because the children saw that the mother loved this aunt, or because they themselves felt a special beauty in it, but the older two, and behind them and the smaller, as it often happens with the children, even before lunch fell to the new aunt and didn’t leave it.
And there was something like a game between them, that was to sit as close as possible under the aunt, touch her, hold her little hand, kiss her, play with her ring, or even touch her clothes.
“Well, how we sat before,” Anna Arkadievna said, sitting on her place.
And again, Grisha lifted her head under her hand and climbed her head to her dress, and glowed with pride and happiness.
When is the ball? She turned to Kitty.
Next week, and a great ball.
One of the balls that has always been fun.
Are there people where it is always fun? Anna said with a gentle laughter.
Strange, but there is.
The Bobrishchevs are always fun, the Nikitians are also, and the Meshkovs are always boring.
Did you not notice?
“No, my soul, for me there are no balls where it was fun,” Anna said, and Kitty saw in her eyes that special world that was not open to her. For me, there are those that are less difficult and boring.
How can you get bored at the ball?
Why can’t I get bored with the ball? I asked Anna.
Kitty noticed that Anna knew what the answer would follow.
Because you are always the best of all.
Anna had the ability to red.
She turned red and said:
First, never; and second, if it was, why do I do it?
Are you going to go to this ball? He asked Kitty.
I think it will not be possible not to drive.
“That’s what you take,” she said to Tane, who stumbled the lightly falling ring from her white, thin in the end of her finger.
“I’ll be so happy if you go, I’d like to see you on the ball.
At least if you have to drive, I will be comforted by the thought that it will make you enjoy.
Grisha, don't tremble, please, they've all broken up, she said, repairing the broken hair that Grisha played.
I imagine you on the ball in the lily.
Why is it necessarily in the white? She smiled and asked Anna. Kids, go and go.
Do you hear?
“Miss Gull calls tea to drink,” she said, breaking off the children and sending them to the dining room.
I know why you call me to the ball.
You are expecting a lot from this ball, and you want everyone to be here, everyone to participate.
Why do you know?
Yes.
Oh Oh Oh! How good your time, Anna continued. I remember and know this blue cloud, as if it were on the mountains in Switzerland. This cloud, which covers everything in the blessed time when this is the end of childhood, and from this huge circle, happy, joyful, the way is all already and joyful and horrible to enter this anfilade, although it seems light and beautiful.
Who didn’t go through it?
Kitty smiled silently.
“But how did she go through it?
How would I wish to know the whole of her novel," Kitty thought, reminding of the unethical outwardness of Alexey Alexandrovich, her husband.
I know something.
Steve told me, and I congratulate you, I like him very much, — continued Anna, — I met Vronsky on the railroad.
He was there? He asked Kitty red. What did Steve tell you?
Steve hurt me all. And I would be very happy.
I was driving yesterday with Wronsky’s mother, — she continued, — and my mother, not silent, told me about him; it’s her favorite; I know how mothers are addicted, but...
What did your mother tell you?
Oh, a lot of! And I know that he is her favourite, but I still see that he is a rider...
Well, for example, she told that he wanted to give all the state to his brother, that he had done something unusual in his childhood, saved the woman from the water.
In a word, the hero, — said Anna, smiling and remembering the two hundred rubles he gave on the station.
But she didn’t tell about those two hundred rubles.
It was unpleasant for her to remember it.
She felt that there was something about her and something that shouldn’t be.
“She very much asked me to go to her,” continued Anna, “and I’m glad to see the old woman and tomorrow I’ll go to her.
However, thanks to God, Steve remains with Dolly in the office for a long time, — added Anna, changing the conversation and standing up, as Kitty seemed, somewhat unhappy.
No, I am first! No to me! The children cried, finished the tea and fled to the uncle Anna.
All together! “And Anna said, and, laughing, she fled to them, and hugged and wiped up all this crowd of children who wiped and wiped out of enthusiasm.
To the tea of the big Dolly she went out of her room.
Stephan Arkadic didn’t get out.
He had to go out of his wife's room by a back walk.
“I’m afraid you’ll be cold up,” Dolly noticed, turning to Anne, “I want to move you down, and we’ll be closer.
“Oh, please don’t worry about me,” Anna answered, looking at Dolly’s face and trying to understand whether there was a reconciliation or not.
“You will be light here,” the bride answered.
I tell you that I’m sleeping everywhere and always like a sunrise.
What about this? - asked Stepan Arkadić, leaving the office and addressing his wife.
By his tone, both Kitty and Anna now realized that reconciliation took place.
I want to transfer Anna down, but I need to overweight the gardens.
No one can do it, it must be done by itself,” Dolly replied, turning to him.
“God knows, are you fully reconciled?” Anna thought, hearing her tone, cold and quiet.
“Oh, full, Dolly, it’s hard to do everything,” the husband said. If you want, I will do everything...
“Yes, we must be reconciled,” thought Anna.
“I know how you’ll do everything,” Dolly replied, “you’ll tell Matthew to do what you can’t do, and you’ll go, and he’ll confuse everything,” and the usual laughing smile broke the ends of Dolly’s lips when she said that.
“Full, full reconciliation, full,” thought Anna, “Glory to God.” And, glad that she was the cause, she came to Dolly and kissed her.
“Not, why do you hate us so much with Matthew? - said Stephan Arkadić, smiling a little noticeably and turning to his wife.
The whole night, as always, Dolly was slightly laughing towards her husband, and Stephan Arkadić was pleased and joyful, but so much that he did not show that he, being forgiven, forgot his fault.
In the middle of the tenth, a pleasant and pleasant evening family conversation behind the tea table at Oblonsky was interrupted by the most apparently simple event, but this simple event somehow seemed strange to everyone.
Talking about the common Peterburg acquaintances, Anna quickly got up.
“She’s in my album,” she said, “but I’m going to show my Sereza,” she added with a proud mother’s smile.
At 10 p.m., when she used to say goodbye to her son, and often herself, before going to the ball, placed him, she became sad that she was so far from him; and whatever they were to say, she was not, and returned with thought to her crazy Seret.
She wanted to look at his card and talk about it.
Using the first pretext, she got up and with her light, determined walk went for the album.
The staircase up, in her room, went out on the place of a large entrance warm staircase.
As she came out of the room, a call was heard in the front.
Who could it be? She said Dolly.
“After me early, and someone later,” Kitty noticed.
- True, with the papers, - added Stephan Arkadić, and when Anna passed the stairs, the servant fled up to report the arrived, and the arrived himself stood at the lamp.
Anna, looking down, immediately recognized Vronsky, and a strange sense of pleasure and fear of something suddenly swallowed in her heart.
He stood without taking the jacket, and got something out of the pocket.
At that moment it was equal to the middle of the staircase; he raised his eyes, saw it, and something scared and scared happened in his face.
She, slightly swallowing her head, passed, and behind her was heard the loud voice of Stephan Arkadić, who called him to enter, and the loud, soft and quiet voice of Wronsky who refused.
When Anna returned with the album, it was no longer there, and Stephan Arkadić told him that he went to find out about the lunch they gave tomorrow to the celebrity. And he didn’t want to enter for anything.
He’s somewhat strange, added Stepan Arkadić.
The kit is red.
She thought she alone understood why he came and why he didn’t come.
“He was with us,” she thought, “and he didn’t stand and thought I was here; but he didn’t enter, because he thought it was late, and Anna was here.”
Everyone looked, said nothing, and began to watch Anna's album.
There was nothing unusual or strange in the fact that a man went to a friend at half the ten to find out the details of the tightened lunch and did not enter; but it all seemed strange.
It seemed strange and unpleasant for Anna.
The ball just started when Kitty and her mother entered a large, floated with flowers and lakes in a powder and red captains, filled with the light of the staircase.
From the hall standing in them equal, as in the street, the shroach of movements, and while they were on the square between the trees in front of the mirror hairstyles and clothes, from the hall were heard carefully and clearly the sounds of the screps of the orchestra that began the first vals.
A state old man, who had fixed his seated gloves in the other mirror and swallowed from himself the smell of spirits, met with them on a staircase and broke out, apparently loving the unfamiliar Kitty.
The unrighteous young man, one of those secular youths, whom the old prince Scherbatsky called thiny, in an extremely open housing, drawing a white gloves on the way, worshipped them and, fleeing beyond, returned, inviting Kitty to the cadry.
The first card was given to Vronsky, and she had to give the second to that young man.
The soldier, sticking his gloves, stood by the door and, gloving his ears, loved the pink Kitty.
Despite the fact that the toilet, hairstyle and all the preparations for the ball stood Kitty of great work and considerations, she now, in her complex tulley dress on a pink shell, entered the ball so freely and simply as if all these rosettes, rounded, all the details of the toilet did not cost her and her home a minute of attention, as if she was born in this tulley, rounded, with this high hairstyle, with a pink and two leaves above her.
When the old princess before the entrance to the hall wanted to repair the covered belt on her, Kitty slightly deviated. She felt that everything itself should be good and gracious on her and that nothing needs to be corrected.
Kitty was in one of his happy days.
The clothes didn’t stretch anywhere, the circular berta didn’t fall anywhere, the rosettes didn’t laugh and didn’t turn away; the pink shoes on the high drawn cables didn’t regret, but entertained the foot, the thick hair of the white hair kept like their own on the small head.
The frogs all three stood, not broken, on a high gloves that covered her hand without changing her shape.
The black barbecue of the medal especially gently surrounded the neck.
This barhatta was beautiful, and at home, looking in the mirror on her neck, Kitty felt that this barhatta was speaking.
Everything else could have been doubtful, but the barbecue was beautiful.
Kitty smiled here at the ball, looking at her in the mirror.
In her naked shoulders and hands, Kitty felt a cold marble, a feeling she loved.
The eyes were bright, and the ruby lips could not be without smiling from the consciousness of their attractiveness.
She failed to enter the hall and reach a crowd of women waiting for the invitations to dance (Kiti never stood in this crowd), as she had been invited to the vals, and invited the best cavaler, the main cavaler in the ball hierarchy, the famous director of balls, ceremonial master, married, beautiful and gentle man Egorushka Korsunsky.
Just after leaving the Count of Bannina, with whom he danced the first tour of the valse, he, looking at his farm, that is, leaving a few couples to dance, saw the Kitty entering and fled to her the special, owned only to the ball drivers, and, worshipping, without even asking if she wanted, took the hand to embrace her thin belt.
She looked at who to give the faith, and the master, smiling to her, took him.
“How good that you came in time,” he told her, hugging her belt, “and what a way to get late.
She put his left hand on his shoulder, and the small legs in the pink butterfly quickly, easily and moderately moved into the touch of music on the sculptural parquet.
“You’re breathing, valsing with you,” he said to her, putting yourself in the first fast steps of the valse. “Beauty, what lightness, precision,” he told her what he told almost all the good acquaintances.
She smiled on his praise and continued to look at the hall through his shoulder.
She was not a regaining woman, whose faces all gathered on the ball into one magical impression; she was not a ball-touched girl, whose faces all were so familiar that they were tired; but she was in the middle of these two; she was excited, and at the same time possessed so much that she could see.
In the left corner of the hall, she saw, grouped the colour of society.
There was the unimpossible naked beauty of Lidi, the wife of Corsunsky, there was a masterpiece, there was Krwin, who was always there where the colour of society was, there were the young people looking, unwilling to come; and there she found with the eyes of Steve, and then she saw the beautiful figure and the head of Anna in a black barhat dress.
And he was here.
Kitty has not seen him since the evening she rejected Levina.
Kitty with her long-looking eyes immediately recognized him and even noticed that he was looking at her.
And another tour?
Are you not tired? - said Corsunsky, slightly swallowed.
No, thank you for it.
Where to take you?
– Karenina is here, it seems... bring me to her,
Where to order.
And Korsunsky swallowed, dying a step, straight to the crowd in the left corner of the hall, saying: "Pardon, mesdames, pardon, pardon, mesdames," and, lavishing between the sea of the circles, the tula and the tape, and not hanging for the pencil, hardly turned his lady, so that her thin legs opened in the upper shells, and the slide broke up with a hole and closed the knees of Krivina.
Korsunsky worshipped, stretched his open chest and gave his hand to bring it to Anna Arkadievna.
Kitty, reddened, took the slide from the Krivina knees and, a little rounded, looked around, looking for Anna.
Anna was not in the yellow, as Kitty wanted, but in a black, low-cutting barhat dress that opened her curtains, like an old elephant bone, full shoulders and chest, and round hands with a thin small chest.
The clothes were covered with a Venetian hype.
On her head, in black hair, its impurities, there was a small gilland of anjutic eyes and the same on the black tape of the belt between the white circles.
Her hair was invisible.
Remarks were only, decorating it, these arbitrary short wheels of chicken hair, always folded on the ceiling and whiskey.
On the pointed strong neck was a niche of jewelry.
Kitty saw Anna every day, she was in love with her, and she definitely imagined her in white. But now, when she saw her in black, she felt that she didn’t understand all her beauty.
She now saw her completely new and unexpected for herself.
Now she realized that Anna could not be in silk and that her beauty was that she was always out of her toilet, that the toilet could never be seen on her.
And the black dress with luxurious circles was not visible on it; it was only a frame, and it was visible only, simple, natural, elegant, and joyful and vibrant.
She stood, as always, extremely straight, and when Kitty approached that cloth, she spoke to the owner of the house, slightly turning her head to him.
“No, I’m not going to throw the stone,” she answered, “although I don’t understand,” she continued with her shoulders, and immediately with a gentle smile of protection she turned to Kitty.
Throwing her toilet with a running female look, she made a little noticeable but understandable for Kitty, approving her toilet and the beauty of the head movement. “You go into the hall and dance,” she added.
“This is one of my most faithful assistants,” Korsunsky said, worshipping Anna Arkadievna, whom he has not seen yet. The princess helps to make the ball fun and beautiful.
Anna Arkadievna, the tour of Wales, — he said, swallowing.
Are you familiar? The owner asked.
With whom do we not know?
“We and our wife are like white wolves, we are all known,” Korsunsky replied. Tour of Wales, Anna Arkadievna.
“I don’t dance when you can’t dance,” she said.
“But it’s not right now,” Corsunsky replied.
At that time, Vronsky came.
“Well, if you can’t dance today, let’s go,” she said, not noticing the gift of Vronsky, and quickly raised her hand on the shoulder of Korsunsky.
“Why is she unhappy with them?” Kitty thought, noticing that Anna did not deliberately respond to the gift of Vronsky.
Vronsky approached Kitty, reminding her of the first picture and regreting that all this time he had no pleasure to see her.
Kitty looked, loving, to the valse Anna and listened to him. She was waiting for him to invite her to the vals, but he didn’t invite, and she was surprised to look at him.
He turned red and quickly invited to valse, but just he hugged her thin belt and made the first step as the music suddenly stopped.
Kitty looked at his face, which was at such a close distance from her, and long after, over a few years, that look, full of love, which she then looked at him and which he did not respond to, with painful shame cut her heart.
Sorry and forgive! Waltz, Waltz! - he screamed from the other side of the Corsun Hall and, captured the first barbecue, began to dance himself.
Vronsky from Kitty passed several tours of vals. After Wales, Kitty approached her mother and hardly managed to say a few words with Nordstone, how Vronsky has already come for her for the first cartridge.
At the time of the film, nothing significant was said, there was a interrupted conversation about Korsunsky, his husband and wife, whom he very fun described as cute forty-year-olds, then about the future of the public theatre, and only once the conversation touched her alive, when he asked about Levine if he was here, and added that he liked it very much. to him.
But Kitty did not expect more from the staff. She was waiting with the heart of the mosquito.
She thought everything had to be resolved in the mosquito.
The fact that he did not invite her to the mosquito during the cadry did not worry her.
She was convinced that she was dancing a mosaic with him, as in the previous balls, and the fifth rejected the mosaic, saying she was dancing.
The whole ball until the last cartridge was for Kitty a magical dream of joyful flowers, sounds and movements.
She didn’t dance only when she felt too tired and asked for a rest.
But, dancing the last cadry with one of the boring young men, which could not be rejected, she happened to be vis-a-vis with Vronsky and Anna.
She didn’t meet with Anna from the very arrival and here suddenly saw her again completely new and unexpected.
She saw in her so familiar the characteristic of excitement from success.
She saw that Anna was drunk of the wine of her admiration.
She knew this feeling and knew its signs and saw them on Anne — she saw a drilling, blinking glow in her eyes and a smile of happiness and excitement, unwillingly throwing her lips, and a clear grace, faithfulness and ease of movements.
“Who is? She asked herself. All or One?”
And, without helping the tortuous young man with whom she danced, in a conversation whose niche he missed and could not raise, and outwardly obeying the joyful and loud command crusks of Korsunsky, then throwing all into the grand rond, then in the chaine, she observed, and her heart was compressed more and more.
“No, it’s not the love of the crowd that drunk her, but the admiration of one. And this one? Is that he?”
Every time he spoke to Anna, a glorious glow blinked in her eyes, and a smile of happiness stumbled her rubble lips.
She seemed to do an effort on herself not to show these signs of joy, but they themselves appeared on her face.
“But what is he?”
Kitty looked at him and was scared.
What Kitty so clearly imagined in the mirror of Anna’s face, she saw on it.
Where is it always made with a quiet, solid manner and a quietly calm expression of the face?
No, now, every time he turned to her, he throwed his head a little as if he wanted to fall before her, and in his eyes there was one expression of obedience and fear.
“I don’t want to offend, but I want to save myself, and I don’t know how.”
She had an expression on her face that she had never seen before.
They talked about common acquaintances, they had the lowest conversation, but Kitty seemed that every word they said decided on them and her fate.
And it is strange that although they really talked about how Ivan Ivanovich was mixed in his French language, and that for Eletska it would be possible to find a better party, and in the meantime these words had meaning for them, and they felt the same as Kiti.
All the ball, all the light, all closed with a cloud in the heart of Kitty.
Only the strict school of education passed by her supported her and forced her to do what they demanded, i.e. to dance, to answer questions, to speak, even to smile.
But before the start of the mouse, when the chairs began to dissolve and some couples moved from the small to the big hall, Kitty found a minute of despair and horror.
She rejected the five and was no longer dancing.
There was even no hope that she would be invited, just because she had too much success in the light, and no one could think that she would not be invited so far.
She had to say to her mother that she was sick and to go home, but she had no power to do so.
She felt murdered.
She went into the depth of a small living room and went down on a chair.
The air jacket of the dress raised up with a cloud around her thin stone; one naked, weak, gentle girl's hand, impotently laid down, drowned in the slopes of a pink tunic; in the other, she kept the wind and fast, short movements covered her burned face.
But, contrary to this kind of puppy, just stuck on the grass and ready, here-to-touched, opened the rainbow wings, a terrible despair stumbled her heart.
“Maybe I’m wrong, maybe it wasn’t.”
And she remembered everything she saw again.
Kitty, what is that? - Countess Northston said, unheardly coming to her on the cover. I don’t understand that.
Kitty's lower mouth dropped; she quickly got up.
Kitty, you’re not dancing a mosquito?
“No, no,” Kitty said with a crying voice from tears.
“He called her to me,” said Nordstone, knowing that Kitty will understand who he and she are. She said, Do you not dance with the princess Sherbatska?
– Oh, I don’t care! – answered Kitty.
No one, except her, understood her situation, no one knew that yesterday she rejected the person she might love, and rejected because she believed in another.
Countess Nordstone found Korsunsky, with whom she danced a mosaic, and told him to invite Kitty.
Kitty danced in the first pair, and, to her happiness, she didn’t have to talk, because Korsunsky was running all the time, arranging his own business.
Vronsky and Anna sat almost against her.
She saw them with her long-looking eyes, she saw them and nearby when they met in couples, and the more she saw them, the more she was convinced that her misfortune had occurred.
She saw that they felt alone in this full room.
And on the face of Vronsky, always so solid and independent, she saw that shocking expression of her loss and obedience, similar to the expression of a smart dog when she blames.
Anna smiled and a smile was given to him. She thought, and he became serious.
Some supernatural power attracted Kitty’s eyes to Anna’s face.
She was beautiful in her simple black dress, her hands full with bracelets were beautiful, her hard neck with a thin, her broken hair was beautiful, her small legs and hands were beautiful, her beautiful face was beautiful in her revival; but there was something terrible and cruel in her beauty.
Kitty loved her even more than before, and she suffered more and more.
Kitty felt depressed, and her face expressed it.
When Vronsky saw her, facing her in the mosaic, he didn’t suddenly recognize her — so she changed.
- Beautiful ball! - he told her to say something.
— Yes — she answered.
In the middle of the mosaic, repeating the complex figure newly invented by Korsunsky, Anna went out to the middle of the circle, took two cavaliers and suspected one lady and Kitty.
Kitty looked at her scaredly.
Anna looked at her and smiled, stretching her hand. But noticing that Kitty’s face only responded to her smile with an expression of despair and surprise, she turned away from her and joyfully talked to another lady.
“Yes, something strange, devil and beautiful is in it,” Kitty said.
Anna didn’t want to stay for dinner, but the owner began to ask her.
— Full, Anna Arkadievna — spoke Korsunsky, taking her naked hand under the arms of his frack. What a cocktail idea! A bijou!
And he moved a little, trying to attract her.
The owner smiled favourably.
“No, I’m not going to stay,” Anna answered with a smile; but despite her smile, both Corsunsky and the master understood in a determined tone how she responded that she won’t stay. “No, I’ve been dancing more on your one ball in Moscow than all the winter in St. Petersburg,” Anna said, looking at the Vronsky standing under her. We have to rest before the road.
Are you going to eat tomorrow? I asked Vronsky.
“Yes, I think,” Anna answered, as to be surprised by the courage of his question; but the unbearable glowing glow of his eyes and a smile burned him when she said that.
Anna Arkadievna didn’t stay to dinner and left.
“Yes, there’s something in me that’s disappointing,” Levi’s thought, coming out of Scherbatsky and walking to his brother. I am not honoured for other people.
The pride, they say.
No, I have no pride.
If I were proud, I’t put myself in such a position.”
And he imagined Vronsky, happy, good, intelligent and quiet, who was never, probably, in the terrible situation in which he was tonight.
“Yes, she had to choose him.
I have to complain about no one or anything.
I am guilty myself.
What right had I to think that she would want to connect her life with mine?
Who am I? And what am I?
It is unnecessary to anyone, unnecessary to anyone.”
And he remembered brother Nicholas and with joy stopped on that memory.
“Is he not right that everything in the world is bad and ugly?
And we are unlikely to judge and judge the brother Nicholas fairly.
Of course, from the point of view of Procophia, who saw him in a broken and drunk, he is a neglected man; but I know him differently.
I know his soul and I know that we are like him.
And instead of going to find him, I went to dinner here.”
Levin approached the lamp, read the address of his brother, which he had in the paper, and suspected the exporter.
All the long journey to his brother Levin lively reminded himself of all the events known to him from the life of his brother Nicholas.
He remembered as a brother at the university and a year after the university, despite the laughter of his comrades, he lived as a monk, strictly fulfilling all the rites of religion, service, post, and avoiding all pleasures, especially women; and then, suddenly, he broke down, he approached the most ugly people, and left himself into the most evil walk.
He then recalled the story with the boy he took out of the village to raise, and in the attack of anger he so hit that the case of accusation of causing evil began.
He then remembered the story with the shuller, to whom he lost money, gave a vessel, and to whom he himself complained, proofing that he was deceiving him.
(This was the money that Sergey Ivanovich paid.)
Then I remembered how he spent the night in part for bullshit. He recalled a shameful trial with his brother Sergei Ivanic for the fact that he seemed not to pay him the share of his mother’s property; and the last case, when he went to serve in the West End and there he was brought to trial for the battles committed to the senior.
All this was terribly foolish, but to Levin it seemed not as foolish as it should be imagined by those who didn’t know Nicholas Levin, didn’t know his whole story, didn’t know his heart.
Levin remembered how at the time when Nicholas was in the period of divinity, post, monks, church services, when he sought help in the religion, struggles to his passionate nature, no one only did not support him, but everyone, and he himself, laughed on him.
He was harassed and called him Noah, a monk; but when he was broken, no one helped. He turned to him, and all with fear and anger.
Levin felt that brother Nicholas in his soul, in the very foundation of his soul, despite all the disgrace of his life, was not more wrong than those people who denied him.
He was not guilty of being born with his unbearable character and a disturbed mind of something.
He always wanted to be good.
“I’m going to tell him everything, I’m going to tell him everything and I’m going to show him that I love him and that’s why I understand him,” Levin decided with himself, arriving at the eleven hour to the hotel indicated at the address.
“On the twelfth and thirteen,” the Swiss man answered Levin’s question.
at home?
I have to, at home.
The door of the twelfth room was half-open, and from there, in the strip of light, a thick smoke of bad and weak tobacco came out, and an unknown voice was heard to Levin; but Levin immediately learned that his brother was here; he heard his tightening.
When he entered the door, an unknown voice spoke.
It all depends on how reasonably and consciously it will be done.
Constantine Levin looked at the door and saw what a young man in the shirt spoke with a huge hair hat, and a young woman, in a shirted dress without gloves and gloves, sat on the sofa. My brother was not seen.
Constantine’s heart was painful when he thought about what foreign people his brother lives.
No one heard him, and Constantine, removing the cracks, listened to what the lord said in the cracks.
He talked about a company.
- Well, the character of their dery, the privileged classes, - the voice of the brother spoke. The Masha!
Give us a dinner and give us a wine, and then go.
The woman stood up, went out and saw Constantine.
“There’s a barin, Nikolai Dmitrić,” she said.
Who is needed? The voice of Nicholas Levin was angry.
“It’s me,” Constantine Levin replied when he came out.
Who am I? The voice of Nicholas repeated the anger.
It was heard as he quickly stood up, hanging for something, and Levin saw in front of himself in the doors such a famous and yet striking, with his wildness and painfulness, the enormous, wealthy, striking figure of his brother, with his big scared eyes.
It was even worse than three years ago when Constantine Levin last saw him.
There was a short sweater on it. And the hands and wide bones seemed even bigger.
The hair became less rare, the same straight ears hanged on the lips, the same eyes strangely and naively looked at the entering.
Oh my bone! Suddenly he spoke, knowing his brother, and his eyes glorified with joy.
But at the same moment he looked at the young man, and made so familiar to Constantine a conspiracy movement of his head and neck, as if a whisper regretted him; and a completely different, wild, suffering and cruel expression stopped on his weakened face.
I wrote to you and to Sergei Ivanic that I don’t know you and I don’t want to know you.
What do you, what do you need?
He was not the same as Constantine imagined him.
The hardest and worst thing in his character, the thing that made it so difficult to communicate with him, was forgotten by Constantine Levine when he thought about him; and now, when he saw his face, especially this congestive turning of his head, he remembered all this.
“I don’t have to see you for anything,” he replied stupidly. I just came to see you.
The work of his brother, apparently, relieved Nicholas. He swallowed his lips.
Are you so? He said. Go in and sit.
Do you want to dinner?
Masha, bring three portions.
No to stand.
You know who it is? - He turned to his brother, pointing to the lord in the asshole, - this is Mr. Kritsky, my friend still from Kiev, a very wonderful man.
He is, of course, being pursued by the police because he is not a fool.
And he looked at all his habits in the room.
When he saw the woman standing in the door moving to go, he cried to her, “Stop, I said.” And with that immense, with that difficulty of conversation, which Constantine so knew, he, again looking at all, began to tell his brother the story of Kritsky: how he was expelled from the university because he brought the society of aid to poor students and Sunday schools, and how he then entered the folk school as a teacher, and how he was also expelled from there, and how he was then judged for something.
Are you a University of Kiev? Konstantin told Levin Kritzko to stop the unpleasant silence.
“Yes, Kievsky was,” Kritsky spoke angry.
“And this woman,” Nikolai Levin beat him, pointing to her, “my life friend, Maria Nikolaevna. I took her out of the house, and he swallowed his neck, saying this. “But I love her and I respect everyone who wants to know me,” he added, raising his voice and turning up, “I ask you to love and respect her.
She is like my wife, no matter what.
So you know with whom you are dealing. And if you think you’re humiliating, that’s God, and that’s the threshold.
And again his eyes questioned everyone.
Why I humble, I don’t understand.
Thus says Masha, bring to dinner: three portions, vodka and wine.
Stop the post...
No, it is not necessary...
Go to.
“That’s how you see,” continued Nikolai Levin, struggling to throw his forehead and undergoing himself.
It was hard for him to understand what to say and do. He pointed in the corner of the room some iron brushes binding with beetings. Do you see that?
This is the beginning of the new thing we are going to do.
This is a productive artillery.
Constantine hardly listened.
He looked into his painful, tightening face, and he was more and more sad for him, and he could not force himself to hear what his brother had told him about the artel.
He saw that this arthel was only a fountain of salvation from contempt for himself.
Nikolai Levin continued to say:
You know that capital presses the worker, the workers in us, men, carry all the burden of labor and are placed in such a way that no matter how much they work, they can’t get out of their livestock position.
All the bars of wages, to which they could improve their position, afford, and as a result of this education, all the surplus of wages are taken from them by the capitalists.
And so the society formed that the more they will work, the more the merchants, the landowners will live, and they will always be the livestock workers.
And this order needs to be changed, he ended and questionedly looked at his brother.
“Yes, of course,” said Constantine, looking at the Romanian who spoke out under the outstanding bones of his brother’s shark.
- And we are preparing an artillery, where all production, and the bars, most importantly, the tools of production, all will be common.
Where is the Artel? He asked Constantine Levin.
In the village of Kazan Governorate.
Why in the village?
In the villages, I think, and so do a lot.
Why an arthritis in the village?
“And then that the men are now the same slaves as they were before, and that’s for you and Sergei Ivanic, and it’s unpleasant that they want to get them out of this slavery,” said Nikolai Levin, angry with the objection.
Constantine Levin breathed, looking at the room, dark and dirty.
This breath seemed to be even more annoying Nicholas.
I know your aristocratic views with Sergei Ivanic.
I know that he uses all the power of mind to justify the existing evil.
What do you say about Sergei Ivanić? He spoke, smiling, Levin.
Sergey Ivanovich?
And that's what! - suddenly, in the name of Sergey Ivanovich, Nikolai Levin screamed, - that's what to do.
What to say?
Only one...
Why did you come to me?
You hate this, and beautifully, and step with God, step! — he cried up from the chair, — and step, and step!
“I don’t neglect anything,” said Constantine Levin stupidly. I don’t even dispute.
At that time, Maria Nikolaevna returned.
Nicholas Levin looked angry at her.
She quickly approached him and cried something.
“I’m unhealthy, I’m angry,” said, calming and hard breathing, Nikolai Levin, “and then you’re telling me about Sergey Ivanic and his article.
This is such a blasphemy, such a blasphemy, such a blasphemy.
What can a man write about justice who does not know it?
Have you read his article? - he turned to Kritzko, again sitting at the table and moving from him up to half the filled papyruses, in order to simplify the place.
“I didn’t read,” said Kritsky darkly, who obviously didn’t want to enter the conversation.
Why to? - Now with anger addressed to Kritzko Nikolai Levin.
I don’t think it is necessary to lose this time.
That is, let me, why do you know that you’re losing your time?
For many articles this is unavailable, that is, above them.
But I, another thing, see through his thoughts and I know why it is weak.
Everyone was silent.
Krick slowly stood up and took his hat.
Do you want to dinner?
Goodbye to me.
Tomorrow you come with the slider.
Just as Kritsky came out, Nikolai Levin smiled and smiled.
“It’s also bad,” he said. Because I see...
But at that time, Kritzky called him to the door.
What else is needed? He said and went out to the corridor.
Leaving alone with Maria Nikolaevna, Levin turned to her.
Have you been with your brother for a long time? He told her.
This is the second year.
Their health was very bad. They drink a lot, she said.
How is it drinking?
They drink water and it is harmful to them.
Is it a lot? He screamed Levin.
“Yes,” she said, looking at the door in which Nicholas Levin appeared.
What did you talk about? He said, swallowing and translating the scared eyes from one to another. About What?
“There’s nothing,” Constantine replied.
You don’t want to speak as you want.
There is nothing to talk to her.
She’s a virgin, and you’re a barin,” he spoke, holding his neck. “You, I see, you have understood and appreciated everything, and you are treating my mistakes with regret,” he said again, raising his voice.
- Nikolai Dmitrić, Nikolai Dmitrić, - spoke again Maria Nikolaevna, approaching him.
Well, well and well!
What is dinner?
And here is he, he spoke, when he saw the Lakey with the mouth. “Here, put here,” he spoke angry and immediately took a vodka, drank a rubber and dried to drink. Do you want to drink? He turned to his brother, and immediately joined. Well, it will be about Sergei Ivanić.
I am glad to see you.
What there is no interpretation, and not all strangers.
Well drink it.
Tell me what you’re doing? — he continued, thirsting a piece of bread and swallowing another rubber. How do you live?
“I live alone in the village, as I lived before, I am farmer,” Constantine replied, looking at the thirst with which his brother drank and ate, and trying to hide his attention.
Why are you not married?
“There was no need,” Constantine answered red.
Why to?
I have finished!
I destroyed my life.
I said this and I will say that if I had given me my part when I needed it, my whole life would be different.
Konstantin Dmitrych has rushed to start the conversation.
Do you know that your carpet is in my carpet? He said.
Nicholas pulled his neck and thought.
Could you tell me what is happening in Poland? What, the house is all worth, and the berries, and our cool?
Philip, the gardener, is he alive?
I remember the chat and the sofa.
Look, don’t change anything in the house, but rather marry and bring again the same as it was.
I will come to you if your wife is good.
“Come to me now,” said Levin. How well we are arranged!
“I would come to you if I knew I’t find Sergei Ivanic.
You won’t find him.
I live completely independent of him.
“Yes, but whatever you say, you have to choose between me and them,” he said, looking stupidly in the eyes of the brother.
This slave touched Constantine.
If you want to know all my confession in this regard, I will tell you that in your dispute with Sergei Ivanic I do not take either the one or the other side.
You are both wrong. You are wrong more externally, and it is more internally.
A and A!
You understood it, you understood it? Nicholas cried with joy.
But personally, if you want to know, I love more friendship with you because...
Why and why?
Constantine could not say that he would love because Nicholas was unhappy and needed friendship.
But Nikolai realized that he wanted to say exactly that, and, turning down, took the vodka again.
— Will it be, Nikolai Dmitrić! — said Maria Nikolaevna, stretching a bull naked hand to the graffiti.
Let it go!
Do not fit!
He screamed! he screamed.
Maria Nikolaevna smiled with a gentle and good smile, which told Nicholas and took a vodka.
Do you think she doesn’t understand anything? said Nicholas. She understands all this better than all of us.
Is there something good in it, sweet?
Have you ever been to Moscow before? Constantine told her to say something.
Don’t tell her you.
She is afraid of that.
No one said to her except the world judge, when she was judged because she wanted to leave the house of corruption, no one said to you. Suddenly he screamed. These new institutions, these world judges, this land, what disgrace it is!
And he began to talk about his confrontations with the new institutions.
Constantine Levin listened to him, and the denial of reason in all the public institutions, which he shared with him and often spoke, was unpleasant to him now from his brother’s mouth.
“In that light we will understand all this,” he laughed.
In that light?
I don’t like that light! “I don’t like,” he said, stopping the scared wild eyes on his brother’s face. And it seems that it would be good to get away from all the foolishness, confusion, both the stranger and my own, and I am afraid of death, I am terribly afraid of death. He swallowed. To drink something.
Do you want champagne?
Or go somewhere.
Go to the Cigans!
I loved Japanese and Russian songs.
His tongue began to interfere, and he went to jump from one object to another.
Constantine, with the help of Mashi, promised him not to go anywhere and put him to sleep completely drunk.
Masha promised to write to Constantine in case of need and to order Nicholas Levin to come to live with his brother.
In the morning, Konstantin Levin left Moscow and came home in the evening.
Dear, in the wagon, he talked to his neighbors about politics, about new railways, and, like in Moscow, he was overcome by the confusion of concepts, dissatisfaction with himself, shame for something; but when he came out on his station, he met the curved pig Ignat with the lifted gate of the cabin, when he saw in the bright light falling from the window of the station, his curved sanes, his horses with attached heads, in the shrimp with the rings and the shrimp, when the pig Ignat, even as they were placed, told him the village news, about the river and about what he was in the hotel, he felt that the shrimp is unclean and unclean.
This he felt with the same kind of Ignat and horses; but when he wore the taulup brought to him, he sat, swallowed, went to the san and went, thinking about the upcoming orders in the village, and looking at the stretched, former upper, don, overwhelmed, but lost horse, he began to understand completely differently what happened to him.
He felt himself and did not want to be others.
He wanted to be better now than he was before.
First, from that day he decided that he would no longer hope for the unusual happiness that the marriage had to give him, and as a result he would not be so neglected to the real.
Secondly, he will never allow himself to be fascinated by the foolish passion, the memories of which so tortured him when he intended to make an offer.
Then, remembering his brother Nicholas, he decided with himself that he will never let himself forget him, will follow him, and will not let him out of sight, to be ready to help when he’s going to be bad.
And it will be soon, he felt it.
Then the talk of his brother about communism, to which he so easily approached, has now forced him to think.
He regarded the transformation of economic conditions as a point of view, but he always felt the injustice of his excess compared to the poverty of the people and now decided on himself that, in order to feel quite right, he, although before he worked a lot and didn’t live luxuriously, will now work even more and even less will afford luxury.
And all this he seemed so easy to do over himself that he spent the whole way in the most pleasant dreams. With a bold sense of hope for a new, better life, he came to his house at nine in the night.
From the windows of the room of Agaphya Mikhailovna, the old grandmother who performed the role of economist in his house, the light fell on the snow of the square in front of the house.
She didn’t sleep yet. Kuzma, awakened by her, sleepy and boosky fled on the wing.
The layer suck of Laska, almost slayed from the feet of Kuzma, jumped out too and swallowed, stretched over his knees, raised up and wanted and didn’t dare to put his front legs on his chest.
“But soon, Daddy, we’ve returned,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna.
– I’m tired, Agatha Mikhailovna.
The guests are well, and the house is better, he answered and went to the office.
The cabin slowly lighted with the candle. There were well-known details: the rocks of the horn, the rocks with books, the mirror of the oven with the breath, which long had to be cleaned, the father's sofa, a big table, an open book on the table, a broken ashes, a carpet with its writing.
When he saw all this, he found a moment of doubt about the possibility of arranging the new life he dreamed of.
All these traces of his life were as if they covered him and said to him, "No, you won't leave us and you won't be another, but you will be the same as you were: with doubts, eternal dissatisfaction with yourself, useless attempts of correction and falls, and eternal expectation of happiness that was not given and impossible to you."
But this was what his things said, and another voice in the soul said that we should not obey the past and that we should do everything possible with ourselves.
And hearing this voice, he approached the corner where he had two pudding gires, and began to gymnastically lift them, trying to bring himself into a state of vigorousness.
A step is hidden behind the door. He quickly put Gary.
The speaker came in and said that everything, thanks to God, was well, but said that the greek in the new dryer was burned.
The news annoyed Levine.
The new dryer was built and partly invented by Levin.
The speaker was always against this dryer and now with a hidden celebration declared that the greek was burned.
Levin was firmly convinced that if it burned, it was only because the measures he commanded hundreds of times were not taken.
He was bored, and he made an excuse to the speaker.
But there was one important and joyful event: Pava, the best, expensive, bought from the exhibition cow, was hosted.
“Kuzma, give me a toulp.
And if you want to take the lamp, I’ll go to see,” he said to the speaker.
Scott for expensive cows was now at home.
Going through the courtyard across the cave at the sirene, he approached the livestock.
It smelled a warm steam when the example door opened, and the cows, surprised by the unusual light of the lighthouse, swallowed on a fresh salmon.
Milky smooth black-pega wide back of the Dutch woman.
Berkut, a bear, was lying with his ring in his mouth and wanted to stand up, but he thought and only swallowed twice when they passed through. A red beauty, enormous like hippots, Pawa, turning back, shut down from the entering cattle and shut down it.
Levin entered the dungeon, looked at Pave and raised a red-pego cage on his thick long legs. The enthusiastic Pava was shut down, but calmed when Levin moved the body to her, and hardly breathed, she began to lying her with the sherry tongue.
The tail, searching for it, pushed her mother with her nose and rotated her tail.
“Go here, Fedor, here is the lamp,” said Levin, looking at the body. to the mother!
Give me a gift to my father. very good.
Long and passive. Vasily Fedorovich is good, right? He addressed the speaker, completely reconciling with him for the greek under the influence of joy for the body.
Who is bad to be?
And the seed rider came on the other day of your departure.
“We’ll have to deal with him, Konstantin Dmitrych,” said the speaker. I told you about the car before.
One question introduced Levin into all the details of the economy, which was great and complex, and he went straight from the cottage to the countryside and, speaking with the speaker and with the speaker Semen, returned home and went straight up to the living room.
The house was large, old, and Levin, although he lived alone, drowned and occupied the whole house.
He knew it was stupid, he knew it was even bad and contrary to his current new plans, but this house was a whole world for Levin.
It was the world in which his father and mother lived and died.
They lived a life that seemed to be the ideal of all perfection for Levin and that he dreamed of renewing with his wife, with his family.
Levin hardly remembered his mother.
The concept of her was a sacred remembrance for him, and his future wife should be in his imagination a repetition of that beautiful, holy ideal of the woman as the mother was for him.
The love of a woman he was not only unable to imagine without marriage, but he first imagined himself a family, and then the woman that would give him a family.
His concepts of marriage therefore were not similar to the concepts of most of his acquaintances, for whom marriage was one of the many holidays; for Levin it was the main part of life, from which all her happiness depended.
And now we had to give up!
When he entered a small living room, where he always drank tea, and sat in his chair with a book, and Agaphya Mikhailovna brought him tea and with his ordinary: "And I sit, daddy," sat on a chair at the window, he felt that, no matter how strange it was, he didn't break with his dreams and that he can't live without them.
With her or with another, but it will be.
He was reading the book, thinking about what he was reading, stopping to listen to Agaphy Mikhailovna, who was not tired; and at the same time different pictures of the economy and the future family life without connection were presented to his imagination.
He felt that in the depths of his soul something was established, dying and placed.
He listened to the conversation of Agaphia Mikhailovna about how the Prochor of God forgot and the money that Levin gave him to buy a horse, drinking without awakening and killing his wife to death; he listened and read the book and remembered the whole course of his thoughts, excitated by reading.
It was Tindall's book about the heat.
He recalled his condemnations to Tindal for his self-satisfaction in the ease of producing experiences and for his lack of a philosophical view.
And suddenly a joyful thought came up: "In two years, I will have two Dutch women in the sheep, Pawa itself can still be alive, twelve young Berkut's daughters, to sleep at the case end of these three - a miracle!"
He took the book again.
Well, electricity and heat are the same, but is it possible in the equation to solve the question to put one value instead of the other?
So what?
The connection between all the forces of nature and so feels instinct.
It is pleasant how the daughter of Pavina will already be a red-pega cow, and all the sheep in which p o d with p a t these three...
greatly!
Going out with your wife and guests to meet the sheep.
The woman will say: We and the bones, as a child, have grown out this body.
How can this interest you so much? The guest will say.
Everything that interests me interests me.
But who is she?” He remembered what happened in Moscow.
“Now what to do?
I am not guilty.
But now everything will go newly.
It is a blow that will not allow life, that the past will not allow.
We have to fight to live better, much better.”
He raised his head and thought.
The old Laska, not yet completely overwhelmed the joy of his arrival and running to float on the courtyard, returned, swallowing the tail and bringing the smell of the air, approached him, stretched his head under his hand, complaintly swallowing and demanding that he should swallow it.
- Just don't say, - said Agatha Mikhailovna. And the dog...
After all, he knows that the owner has come and is bored.
Why is it boring?
Don’t I see you, Daddy?
It is time for God to know.
The righteousness in the lords has grown.
Nothing Daddy. Health to consciousness is clean.
Levin looked at her carefully, surprised by how she understood his thoughts.
Do you bring another tea? She said, and after taking the cup, she went out.
The grace all put his head under his hand.
He squeezed her, and she immediately turned to his legs with a ring, placing her head on the lifting back leg.
And in the sign that now everything is well and well, she slightly opened her mouth, swallowed her lips and, better placed her lips around her old teeth, silent in blessed tranquility.
Levin closely followed this last movement.
“I’m so!” he said to himself, “I’m so!”
Nothing...
It’s all good.”
After the ball, early in the morning, Anna Arkadievna sent a telegram to her husband about her departure from Moscow the same day.
“No, I have to go,” she explained to the bride the change of her intention in such a tone as if she remembered so many things that you don’t read, “no, it’s better now!”
Stephan Arkadić did not eat at home, but promised to come to spend his sister at seven.
Kitty also didn’t come, she sent a note that her head was hurt.
Dolly and Anna had dinner with their children and a British girl.
Because the children were unstable or very sensitive, and they felt that Anna was not the same as the day when they loved her so much that she was no longer busy with them, but only they suddenly stopped their play with the aunt and their love for her, and they were not concerned at all that she was leaving.
Anna was busy preparing for the departure every morning. She wrote notes to a Moscow acquaintance, recorded her accounts and deposited.
In general, Dolly seemed to be not in a quiet spirit, but in the spirit of care that Dolly knew well for herself and that finds not without reason and mostly covers dissatisfaction with herself.
After lunch, Anna went dressing in to her room, and Dolly went for her.
“How strange are you now!” said Dolly.
I am? You find?
I am not strange, but I am bad.
Oh, it happens with me.
I all want to cry.
“It’s very stupid, but it’s going,” Anna said quickly and wiped her red face to the toy bag in which she placed a night shoulder and bats.
Her eyes were bright and constantly exposed to tears. So I didn’t want to leave St. Petersburg, and now I don’t want to leave there.
“You came here and did a good thing,” Dolly said, looking at her carefully.
Anna looked at her with wet tears.
Don’t say that, Dolly.
I did nothing, I couldn’t do.
I am often wondering why people agreed to break me.
What did I do and what could I do?
You have so much love in your heart that you can forgive.
Without you God knows what would be.
How happy you are, Anna! — said Dolly. You have everything in your heart clear and well.
Everyone has his own skeletons, as the English people say.
What are your skeletons?
You have everything so clear.
— Yes! — suddenly Anna said, and suddenly, after tears, an intelligent, funny smile smiled her lips.
“Well, so they’re funny, your skeletons, not dark,” Dolly said, smiling.
Do you know why I’m eating today, not tomorrow? This acknowledgement that pushed me, I want to do it to you, — said Anna, re — thickly leaving on the chair and looking straight in the eyes of Dolly.
And, to her surprise, Dolly saw that Anna was red up to her ears, to the swallowing black rings of her hair on her neck.
And Anna continued. Do you know why Kitty didn’t come to dinner?
She’s jealous of me.
I destroyed... I was the reason that this ball was a torture for her, not a joy.
But right, right, I’m not guilty, or guilty a little,” she said, with a thin voice stretching the word “a little.”
- Oh, how you seemed to say that to Steve! - laughing, Dolly said.
Anna was insulted.
Oh no, or no! “I’m not standing,” she said, turning up. “I’m telling you that I don’t even allow myself to doubt myself for a minute,” Anna said.
But at the moment she spoke these words, she felt that they were unfair; she not only doubted herself, she felt anxiety when she thought of Vronsky and left sooner than she wanted, just so that she could not meet him anymore.
“Yes, Steve told me that you’ve danced a mouse with him and that he...
You can’t imagine how funny it came out.
I just thought to get married, and suddenly a different thing.
Maybe I am against the will.
She turned red and stopped.
— Oh, they’re feeling it now! — said Dolly.
“But I would be disappointed if there was something serious from his side,” Anna passed her. And I’m sure I’ll forget it all and Kitty will stop hating me.
“Anna, right to say, I don’t really desire this marriage for Kitty. And it’s better that it split up if he, Vronsky, could fall in love with you one day.
- Oh my god, it would be so stupid! - said Anna, and again a thick color of pleasure appeared on her face when she heard her thought, spoken with words. So, I go and make myself an enemy in China, which I loved so much.
Oh, how cute she is!
But will you fix it, Dolly?
Yes?
Dolly could hardly keep a smile.
She loved Anna, but she was pleased to see that she also had a weakness.
The enemy?
This cannot be.
“I would like you all to love me as I love you; but now I have loved you even more,” she said with tears in her eyes. Oh, how stupid I am now!
She walked on her face and began to dress.
Before the very departure arrived the late Stepan Arkadić, with a red, joyful face and the smell of wine and cigarettes.
Anna's sensitivity was also by Dolly, and when she last hugged the rubber, she screamed:
Remember, Anna, what you did for me, I will never forget. And remember that I loved you and will always love you as a best friend!
“I don’t understand why,” said Anna, kissing her and hiding her tears.
You understand and understand me.
Goodbye, my beauty!
“Well, everything is over, and glory to God!” It was the first thought that came to Anna Arkadievna when she for the last time forgiven with her brother, who before the third call burned the road in the wagon.
She sat on her sofa, next to Anushka, and looked in the middle of the light of the bed wagon.
"Glory to God, tomorrow I will see Sereza and Alexey Alexandrovich, and my life will go, good and usual, as old."
All in the same spirit of concern, in which she was all that day, Anna with pleasure and clarity arranged the way; with her small hands, she opened and closed the red bag, got a bowl, put herself on the knees, and, carefully shaking her legs, calmly seated.
The sick woman was already sleeping.
Two other ladies were talking to her, and the thick old man wiped his legs and commented on the ball.
Anna answered a few words to the ladies, but without predicting the interest of the conversation, she asked Annuška to get the lamp, attached it to the hand of the chair and took out of her pocket a cut knife and an English novel.
The first time she did not read.
First it interfered with riding and walking; then, when the train touched, it was impossible not to listen to the sounds; then the snow, which hit the left window and fell on the glass, and the appearance of the curved, passing through the conductor, drawn by the snow on one side, and the talks about what now the terrible melt on the courtyard, attracted her attention.
Then all was the same; the same trembling, the same snow in the window, the same fast transitions from steam heat to cold and again to heat, the same blinking of the same persons in the middle of darkness and the same voices, and Anna began to read and understand what was read.
Annuška was already sleeping, holding a red bag on his knees with wide hands in gloves, one of which was broken.
Anna Arkadievna read and understood, but it was unpleasant for her to read, that is, to monitor the reflection of the lives of other people.
She too much wanted to live.
If she read how the heroine of the novel cared for the sick, she wanted to walk unheardly in the sick room; if she read about how a member of parliament spoke, she wanted to speak this speech; if she read about how Lady Mary walked up behind the room and irritated the bride and surprised everyone with her courage, she wanted to do it herself.
But there was nothing to do, and she, putting through her small hands a smooth knife, intensified reading.
The hero of the novel has already begun to reach his English happiness, baronity and possession, and Anna wanted to go with him to this possession, as suddenly she felt that he should be ashamed and that she was ashamed of that itself. What is it shameful for him?
“What do I be ashamed?” She asked herself with an insulted surprise.
She left the book and dropped on the back of the chair, strongly pressing in both hands a cut knife.
There was nothing shameful.
She broke all her memories from Moscow.
They were all good, pleasant.
She remembered the ball, she remembered Vronsky and his beloved obedient face, she remembered all her relationships with him: nothing was shameful.
And at the same time, in this place of memories, the feeling of shame increased, as if some inner voice was just here, when she remembered Vronsky, saying to her, “Heat, very hot, hot.”
“Now what? She said to herself strongly, sitting in the chair. What does that mean?
Do I be afraid to look at it?
Well what?
Are there any other relationships between me and this boy officer, except those that are with every acquaintance?”
She smiled with negligence and took the book again, but she could no longer understand what she was reading.
She walked with a cut knife on the glass, then applied its smooth and cold surface to the shell, and slightly laughed at the joy that suddenly unreasonably dominated it.
She felt that her nerves, like strings, were pressing more and more on some swinging coats.
She felt that her eyes opened more and more, that her fingers on her hands and legs moved nervously, that something breathed inside, and that all the images and sounds in this vibrant semi-dark with an unusual brightness affected her.
It was constantly found minutes of doubt whether the wagon goes forward, or back, or still stands. Annuška is under her or a stranger?
“What is there on the hand, is it a puppy or a beast?
What am I here?
I am alone or another?”
She was afraid to forget that.
But something pulled into him, and she could arbitrarily give up to him and abstain.
She climbed up to remember, throwed the foam and removed the pelery of a warm dress.
For a moment, she remembered and realized that the weak man in a long narrow jacket, on which there was a lack of pudding, was a pudding, that he looked at the thermometer, that the wind and the snow swallowed behind him in the door; but then again everything was mixed.
This man with a long belt began to throw something in the wall, the old woman began to stretch her legs across the entire length of the wagon and filled it with a black cloud; then something scratched and stumbled as if they were cracking someone; then the red fire blinded her eyes, and then everything closed with the wall.
Anna felt she failed.
But it was not terrible, but fun.
The voice of a snowy man screamed something over her ear.
She got up and remembered; she realized that they came to the station and that it was a conductor.
She asked Annuška to give her a drawn pelery and plate, dressed them and turned to the door.
Going out? Asked Anna.
I want to breathe.
It is very hot here.
And she opened the door.
The metal and the wind came to her and disputed with her about the door.
It seemed fun to her.
She opened the door and went out.
The wind, as if it was just waiting for her, joyfully swallowed and wanted to catch and take her, but she with her hand took the cold column and, holding her dress, came down on the platform and went to the wagon.
The wind was strong on the wing, but there was silence on the platform behind the wagons.
With pleasure, full breasts, she breathed in the snow, cold air and, standing under the wagon, looked at the platform and the lighting station.
A terrible storm rushed and swallowed between the wheels of the wagons on the stairs because of the corner of the station.
The wagons, the columns, the people, everything that was seen, was carried on one side by snow and was carried more and more.
At the moment the storm was silent, but then it came again with such breaks that it seemed impossible to resist it.
Meanwhile, some people were running, having fun talking, scrolling on the plates of the platform and constantly opening and closing large doors.
The shadow of the man swallowed under her legs, and the sound of a melt on her iron was heard.
“Let’s give me!” A angry voice came from the other side of the stormy darkness.
“Welcome here! The N28!” Other voices were crying, and the people who were bound by the snow fled.
Two men with a papyrus fire in their mouth passed through her.
She breathed again to breathe, and had already pulled out her hand from the muft to take the column and get into the wagon, as a man in a military jacket under her himself shed her the fluctuating light of the lamp.
She looked around and at the same moment recognized the face of Vronsky.
Applied his hand to the cage, he slept to her and asked, does she need something, can he not serve her?
She looked at him for a long time, without answering anything, and despite the shadow in which he stood, she saw, or she seemed to have seen, and the expression of his face and eyes.
This was again the expression of respectful admiration that so influenced her yesterday.
She has repeatedly told herself these last days and now only that Wronsky is for her one of the hundreds of eternally the same young people everywhere encountered, that she never will allow herself to think about him; but now, in the first instant encounter with him, she was covered by a sense of joyful pride.
She didn’t have to ask why he was here.
She knew it as true as if he told her that he was here to be where she was.
I didn’t know you was eating.
Why are you eating? She said, leaving the hand she took for the column.
And unbearable joy and revival raised on her face.
Why am I eating? He repeated, looking directly in her eyes. “You know, I’m going to be where you are,” he said, “I can’t do anything else.
And at the same time, as if it had overcome the obstacle, the wind swallowed the snow from the roofs of the wagons, stumbled by some iron shrinked leaf, and plaguely and darkly charged the thick shrink of the vessel.
The whole horror of Mette seemed to her even more beautiful now.
He said what her soul wanted, but what she feared by judgment.
She did not answer anything, and on her face he saw a struggle.
“Forgive me if you are unpleasant with what I said,” he said humbly.
He spoke kindly, respectfully, but so firmly and persistently that she could not answer anything for a long time.
“It’s bad that you’re saying, and I ask you, if you’re a good man, forget what you’ve said, as I’ll forget,” she said.
No one of your words, no one of your movements, I will never forget.
She screamed, stupidly trying to give a strict expression to her face, which he was thirsty to look at.
And, taking her hand for the cold column, she climbed the stairs and quickly entered the seed of the wagon.
But in these small shades she stopped, reflecting in her imagination what was.
Without remembering her or his words, she felt that this minute conversation terribly brought them closer; and she was scared and happy with it.
After staying for a few seconds, she went into the wagon and sat on her place.
That magical stressful state that suffered her at first, not only renewed, but increased, and it came to the point that she feared that every minute something too stressed would break down in her.
She didn’t sleep all night. But in that tension and those sins that filled her imagination, there was nothing unpleasant and dark; on the contrary, there was something joyful, burning and exciting.
By the morning, Anna was sleeping, sitting on a chair, and when she woke up, it was already white, light and the train approached St. Petersburg.
Thus, the thoughts of the house, of the husband, of the son, and the care of the coming day and of the followers overthrowed it.
In St. Petersburg, the train just stopped and she went out, the first face that attracted her attention was the face of her husband.
“Oh my God! Why did he have such ears?” She thought, looking at his cold and representative figure and especially on her now crushed ears, supporting the fields of a round hat.
When he saw her, he went to her, placing his lips into his usual laughing smile and directly looking at her with big tired eyes.
Some unpleasant feeling stumbled her heart when she met his persistent and tired look, as if she was expecting to see him by others.
In particular, she was impressed by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself, which she experienced when she met him.
The feeling was an ancient, familiar feeling, similar to the state of affection she experienced in her relationship with her husband; but before she did not notice that feeling, now she was clearly and painfully aware of it.
“Yes, as you see, the gentle husband, gentle, like the other year of marriage, has burned with the desire to see you,” he said with his slowly thin voice and the tone he almost always consumed with her, the tone of laughter over the one who would actually say that.
The network is healthy? She asked.
“And this is all the reward,” he said, “for my purity?”
Healthy and healthy...
Vronsky did not try to sleep all that night.
He was sitting on his chair, then directly stretching his eyes in front of himself, then looking at the entering and outgoing, and if before he hit and worried the strangers with his kind of untouchable tranquillity, then now he seemed even more proud and self-sufficient.
He looked at people as things.
A young nervous man serving in the district court sitting against him hated him for this species.
The young man and smoked him, and spoke with him, and even pushed him to make him feel that he was not a thing, but a man, but Vronsky looked at him all the same as on a lighthouse, and the young man scratched, feeling that he was losing self-control under the pressure of this unrecognition by his man.
Vronsky saw nothing and no one.
He felt as a king, not because he believed he had an impression on Anna — he didn’t believe it yet — but because the impression she made on him gave him happiness and pride.
What would come out of this, he didn’t know or even thought.
He felt that all his so far dissolved, dissolved forces were gathered into one and with terrible energy were directed to one blessed goal.
And he was happy with that.
He only knew that he told her the truth, that he was driving where she was, that all the happiness of life, the only meaning of life he was now in seeing and hearing her.
And when he came out of the wagon in Bologov to drink the land water, and saw Anna, his first word unwillingly told her what he thought.
And he was glad that he told her this, that she now knows it and thinks about it.
He didn’t sleep all night.
Returning to his wagon, he continued to check out all the positions in which he saw her, all her words, and in his imagination, forcing his heart to die, the images of the possible future were carried out.
When he came out of the wagon in St. Petersburg, he felt alive and fresh after a sleepless night, as after a cold bath.
He stopped at his wagon waiting for his departure.
“I’ll see again,” he said, unwillingly smiling, “I’ll see her walk, her face; she’ll say something, she’ll turn her head, she’ll look, she’ll smile, maybe.”
But before he saw her, he saw her husband, whom the chief of the station carefully spent among the crowd.
“Oh yeah yes! My husband!”
Now only for the first time Vronsky clearly realized that his husband was linked to her face.
He knew that she had a husband, but he didn’t believe in his existence and believed in him completely, only when he saw him, with his head, his shoulders and his feet in black pants; especially when he saw how this man with a sense of property calmly took her hand.
When he saw Alexey Alexandrovich with his St. Petersburg-fresh face and a strictly self-confident figure, in a round hat, with a slightly outstanding back, he believed in him and experienced an unpleasant feeling, similar to what a man who suffered by thirst and reached the source and found in this source a dog, a sheep or a pig, who also drank and smelled water.
The walk of Alexei Aleksandrovich, who wrecked all the pelvis and stupid legs, especially insulted Vronsky. He only recognized for himself the uncertain right to love her.
But she was all the same; and her appearance was all the same, physically reviving, exciting and filling his soul with compassion, acting on him.
He ordered the German-Lakey who fled to him from the second class to take things and go, and he approached it himself.
He saw his husband’s first encounter with his wife and noticed with insight the sign of a mild confusion with which she spoke with her husband.
“No, she doesn’t love and can’t love him,” he decided with himself.
Even as he approached Anna Arkadievna behind, he noticed with joy that she felt his approach and looked at him and, after recognizing him, again turned to his husband.
Have you spent the night well? He said, tending before her and before his husband together and giving Alexey Alexandrovich to accept this gift on his own account and to know him or not to know how he will like.
“Thank you, very good,” she replied.
Her face seemed tired, and there was no play on it that was thrown in a smile, in the eyes of revival; but for a moment, when she looked at him, something blinked in her eyes, and, despite the fact that the fire was now drowned, he was happy with that moment.
She looked at her husband to find out if he knew Wronsky.
Alexey Aleksandrovich looked at Vronsky with dissatisfaction, devotedly remembering who it was.
The tranquility and self-confidence of Vronsky here, like the hair on the stone, hit the cold self-confidence of Alexey Alexandrovich.
— Count Vronsky, — said Anna.
A!
We are acquainted, it seems, — said Alexey Alexandrovich indifferently, giving his hand. “I went there with my mother, and back with my son,” he said, clearly speaking, as a ruble in every word. Are you out of vacation? He said, and without waiting for the answer, he turned to his wife with his joke tone, saying, “What, a lot of tears were flushed in Moscow during the divorce?
By addressing this to his wife, he gave Vronsky the feeling that he wanted to stay alone, and, turning to him, he touched his hat; but Vronsky turned to Anna Arkadievna:
“I hope I have the honor to be with you,” he said.
Alexey Aleksandrovich looked at Vronsky with tired eyes.
“It’s very good,” he said cold, “we’re taking it on Monday. Then, dismissing Vronsky, he said to his wife, "And how good it was that I had just half an hour to meet you, and that I could show you my delicacy," he continued with the same joke.
“You’re too highlighting your delicacy so that I can appreciate it very much,” she said in the same joke tone, unwillingly listening to the sounds of the steps of Vronsky, who followed them.
“But what about me?” She thought and began to ask her husband how Serez spent his time without her.
Oh, it is wonderful!
Mariette says he was very nice and... I have to anger you... I didn’t miss you, not like your husband.
Thank you again, my friend, for giving me the day.
Our sweet selfie will be excited...
(He called the famous Count Lydia Ivanovna for the fact that she was always worried and worried about everything.)
She asked about you.
And you know, if I dare to advise, you would come to her today.
She hurt her heart for everything.
Now she, in addition to all her troubles, is busy with the reconciliation of the Oblonsky.
Count Lydia Ivanovna was a friend of her husband and the center of one of the circles of the Petersburg world, with which Anna was closest connected by her husband.
I wrote to her.
But she needs everything in detail.
Come, if you’re not tired, my friend.
I’m going to send you the car and I’m going to the committee.
Again I will not eat alone, - continued Alexey Aleksandrovich no longer a joke tone. You won’t believe how I’m used to.
And he, long pressing her hand, put her in the car with a special smile.
The first person to meet Anna at home was a son.
He jumped to her on the stairs, despite the governor's screams, and with desperate enthusiasm cried, "Mama, Mom!"
When he came to her, he hanged her on the neck.
“I told you that my mom!” he cried to the governor. I knew!
And the son, like his husband, produced in Anna a feeling like disappointment.
She imagined him better than he was actually.
She had to go down to reality to enjoy them as he was.
But even the way he was, he was beautiful with his white shadows, blue eyes, and full thin legs in tightened clothes.
Anna experienced almost physical pleasure in the feeling of his proximity and compassion and moral calm when she met his simple, trustworthy and loving look and listened to his naive questions.
Anna received the gifts that Dolly’s children sent, and told her son what the girl Tanya is in Moscow and how Tanya knows how to read and teach even other children.
I am worse than her? I asked the network.
For me the best of all in the world.
“I know it,” said Sereza, smiling.
Even Anna failed to drink coffee, as they about Count Lydia Ivanovna.
Count Lydia Ivanovna was a high full woman with an unhealthy yellow face color and beautiful thoughtful black eyes.
Anna loved her, but now she seems to have seen her for the first time with all her shortcomings.
So, my friend, have you removed the olive branch? - asked Count Lydia Ivanovna, she just entered the room.
“Yes, it’s all over, but it’s not as important as we thought,” Anna replied. In general, my belle soeur is too determined.
But Count Lydia Ivanovna, who was not interested in everyone before her, had the habit of never listening to what interested her; she crossed Anna.
“Yes, there is a lot of evil and evil in the world, and I am so tortured today.
And what? She asked Anna, trying to keep her smile.
I begin to get tired of the foolish breaking of copies for the truth and sometimes I develop completely.
The work of the sisters (this was a philanthropic, religious-patriotic institution) went great, but with these gentlemen nothing is impossible to do, — added Count Lydia Ivanovna with a laughing obedience to the fate. They captured the thought, invented it, and then discussed so little and nothing.
Two or three people, including your husband, understand all the importance of this matter, and others just hurt.
I wrote the truth yesterday.
Pravdin was a famous Panslavist abroad, and Count Lydia Ivanovna told the contents of the letter.
Then the cousin told more trouble and cows against the case of uniting the churches and went away in a hurry, as she had to be on the meeting of one society and in the Slavic committee on that day.
“But all this was before; but why did I not notice this before? Anna said to herself. Or are you very annoyed today?
And in fact, it is funny: the purpose of virtue, she is Christian, and she is all angry with all her enemies and all her enemies by Christianity and virtue.”
After the Count Lydia Ivanovna came a friend, the wife of the director, and told all the city news.
At three a.m. she left and promised to come for lunch.
Alexey Aleksandrovich was in the ministry.
Staying alone, Anna spent the time before lunch to attend the son’s lunch (he had lunch separately) and to arrange her things, read and respond to the notes and letters that she had gathered on the table.
The sense of unreasonable shame that she experienced was expensive, and the excitement completely disappeared.
In the usual conditions of life, she felt again solid and imperfect.
She was surprised to remember her yesterday’s situation.
“What was it?
Vronsky said a foolishness that was easy to end, and I answered as needed.
It is not necessary and not possible to talk about this man.
Talking about it means giving importance to what it doesn’t have.”
She remembered how she told her the recognition that a young subordinate of her husband made her in St. Petersburg, and how Alexey Alexandrovich replied that, living in the light, any woman could be exposed to it, but that he trusted completely her tacto and never allowed himself to humiliate her and himself to jealousy.
“Have it happened, why not to talk?
Yes, thank God, and there’s nothing to say,” she said to herself.
Alexey Aleksandrovich returned from the ministry at 4 p.m., but, as it often happened, he failed to enter it.
He went to the cabinet to receive the waiting requests and to sign some of the papers brought by the governor of the affairs.
For lunch (always three people had lunch with the Kareninians) came: the old cousin Alexey Aleksandrovich, the director of the department with his wife and one young man, recommended by Alexey Aleksandrovich for service.
Anna went out to the living room to take them.
Just at five p.m. the bronze clocks of Peter I failed to get the fifth hit, as Alexey Alexandrovich went out in a white jacket and in a crack with two stars, as now after lunch he had to drive.
Every minute of Alexey Alexandrovich’s life was busy and distributed. And in order to succeed in doing what he had to do every day, he kept strictly careful.
“Without a hurry and no rest” was his motto.
He entered the hall, broke up with everyone and quickly sat, smiling to his wife.
My loneliness ended.
You will not believe how uncomfortable (he hit the word uncomfortable) to eat alone.
After lunch he talked to his wife about the Moscow affairs with a laughing smile asking about Stepan Arkadić; but the conversation was mainly common, about the St. Petersburg official and public affairs.
After lunch he spent half an hour with the guests and, again with a smile, grew his hand to his wife, went out and went to the council.
Anna did not go this time to the princess Betty Tversky, who, having learned about her arrival, called her at night, or to the theater, where she had a bed now.
She didn’t go mainly because the dress she was counting on was not ready.
In general, after the guests left their toilet, Anna was very annoyed.
Before leaving Moscow, she, in general, the mastery of dressing is not very expensive, gave the fashionista to replace three clothes.
The clothes had to be made so that they could not be known and they had to be ready three days ago. It turned out that two clothes were not ready at all, and one was not done as Anna wanted.
The modista came to explain, claiming that it would be better, and Anna was so burned that she was then conscious to remember.
To be completely calm, she went to the children's room and spent the whole night with her son, put him in bed, crossed and covered him with a cover.
She was glad she didn’t go anywhere and spent this evening so well.
She was so easy and quiet, so clear she saw that everything that was so important to her on the rail was just one of the usual poor cases of secular life, and that she had nothing to be ashamed before anyone or before herself.
Anna sat in the chamber with an English novel and waited for her husband.
At half the tenth he heard his call and he entered the room. “That’s you!” she said, stretching her hand.
He kissed her hand and sat down to her.
“I see that your trip was successful,” he said to her.
— Yes, very, — she answered and began to tell him everything first: her journey with Vronskaya, her arrival, the case on the railroad.
She then told her the impression of her regret to her brother first, then to Dolly.
“I don’t think it’s possible to apologize to such a person, even though he is your brother,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said strictly.
Anna smiled.
She understood that he said this just then to show that relativity considerations cannot stop him from expressing his sincere opinion.
She knew that character in her husband and loved her.
“I’m glad that everything ended well and that you’ve come,” he continued. What do they say about the new situation I have held in the council?
Anna did not hear anything about this situation, and she became aware that she could so easily forget what was so important to her.
“Here, on the contrary, it made a lot of noise,” he said with a pleasant smile.
She saw that Alexey Alexandrovich wanted to tell her something pleasant about the matter, and she asked him with questions.
He, with the same self-sufficient smile, told him about the ovations that were made to him as a result of this situation.
I was very, very happy.
This proves that we finally begin to establish a reasonable and solid view of this matter.
Drinking his second glass of tea with milk and bread, Alexey Alexandrovich stood up and went to his office.
You didn’t go anywhere; you was bored, right? He said.
— No! — she answered, stood up for him and brought him through the hall to the office. What are you reading now? She asked.
“Now I’m reading Duc de Lille, Poesie des enfers,” he replied. A very wonderful book.
Anna smiled as she smiled to the weaknesses of loved ones, and, put her hand under it, led it to the door of the office.
She knew her habit, which became a need to read at night.
She knew that, despite the almost all-time official duties, he considered his duty to monitor all the wonderful things that appeared in the mental sphere.
She also knew that he was really interested in political, philosophical, theological books, that art was in his nature completely strange to him, but that, despite that, or better as a result, Alexey Alexandrovich did not miss anything that made noise in this field, and considered his duty to read everything.
She knew that in the field of politics, philosophy, and theology Alexey Alexandrovich doubted or found; but in the matters of art and poetry, especially music, whose understanding he was completely deprived, he had the most definite and firm opinions.
He loved to talk about Shakespeare, Rafael, Beethoven, the importance of new schools of poetry and music, which were all distributed with a very clear consistency.
“Well, God with you,” she said at the door of the office, where he had been prepared an abjur on a candle and a graffiti of water at the chair. I will write to Moscow.
He stretched her hand and kissed her again.
“He’s still a good man, true, good, and wonderful in his sphere,” Anna told herself, returning to herself, as if she was defending him from someone who accused him and said he could not be loved. But his ears are so strange!
Or did he cut off?”
Just at twelve, when Anna was still sitting at the writing table, writing a letter to Dolly, rough steps in the shoes were heard, and Alexey Alexandrovich, washed, scratched, with a book under the mouse, approached her.
“That’s time,” he said, especially smiling, and went to the bedroom.
“What right did he have to look at him so?” - thought Anna, remembering the look of Vronsky on Alexey Alexandrovich.
Separated, she went into the bedroom, but on her face was not only the revival that in her existence in Moscow so and brushed out of her eyes and smile: on the contrary, now the fire seemed stumbled in her or somewhere far attached.
XXXIV
Leaving St. Petersburg, Vronsky left his large apartment on the Maritime friend and his beloved companion Petritsky.
Petritsky was a young officer, not especially remarkable and not only not wealthy, but a circle in debts, at night always drunk and often for different and funny and dirty stories falling on the gauptacht, but loved and by friends and chief.
Arriving at twelve a.m. from the railway to his apartment, Vronsky saw at the entrance his famous car.
From the door on his call he heard the horror of men and the lip of the woman's voice and the scream of Petritsky: "If any of the evil, don't let it go!"
Wronsky didn’t tell the dentist to talk about himself and silently entered the first room.
Baronessa Shilton, Petritsky's friend, bright with a lilous atlas of clothes and a rubber-white face, and, like a canary, filling the room with her Paris speech, sat in front of a round table, cooking coffee.
Petritsky in the jacket and Rothmister Kamerovsky in full form, probably from service, sat around her.
The brave!
Vronsky! — screamed Petritsky, jumping up and crumbling with a chair. The owner himself!
Baronessa, coffee to him from a new coffee shop.
They did not wait!
I hope you’re satisfied with the decoration of your office,” he said, pointing to the baroness. Are you familiar, right?
Wronsky said, gladly smiling and pressing a little baroness hand. How well! The old friend.
“You’re home from the road,” said the baroness, “so I’m running.
Oh, I’m going to go this minute if I interfere.
“You are at home where you are, Barones,” Wronsky said. “Hello, Kamerovsky,” he added, coldly pressing the hand of Kamerovsky.
“You never know how to say such good things,” the baroness turned to Petritsky.
No, why not?
After lunch, I will say no worse.
After lunch there is no merit. Well, so I’ll give you coffee, go wash and clean up,” said Baronesa, again sitting and carefully turning the wing in the new coffee shop. “Peer, give coffee,” she addressed Petritsky, whom she called Peer, by his name Petritsky, without hiding her relationship with him. I will add.
and export.
No, I will not ruin.
What about your wife? — said the baroness suddenly, interrupting the conversation of Vronsky with a friend. We married you here.
Have you brought your wife?
No to baroness.
I’m born a Roma and I’m going to die a Roma.
The better, the better.
Give the hand.
And the baroness, not leaving Vronsky, began to tell him, overwhelming with jokes, his last plans of life and asking his advice.
He doesn’t want me to divorce.
What do I do?
(He was her husband)
I want to start the process now.
How do you advise me?
Kamerovsky, see, after coffee, he left; you see, I’m busy doing things!
I want the process because the state I need is mine.
Do you understand that stupidity that I’d seem to be wrong with him – she said with negligence – and that’s why he wants to take advantage of my possession.
Vronsky listened with pleasure to this pleasant grace of a nice woman, deceived her, gave half-thinking advice and in general immediately accepted his usual tone of dealing with this kind of women.
In his St. Petersburg world, all humans were divided into two completely opposite varieties.
One lower sort: foolish, stupid and, most importantly, funny people who believe that one husband must live with the same wife with whom he is married, that a girl must be innocent, that a woman must be shameful, that a man must be courageous, withholded and firm, that they must raise children, earn their bread, pay their debt, and that such stupidities are different.
It was a variety of old-fashioned and funny people.
But there was another kind of people, true, to which they all belonged, in which we must be, most importantly, elegant, beautiful, generous, courageous, joyful, to give up every passion not red and to laugh over everything else.
Wronsky only in the first minute was sheltered after the impressions of a completely different world brought to him from Moscow, but immediately, as if he pulled his feet into the old shoes, he entered his former fun and pleasant world.
Coffee never cooked, but scratched everyone and went away and made exactly what it needed, i.e. gave a reason to noise and laughter, and sinked a expensive cover and baronesy clothes.
Now goodbye, and then you will never get tired, and on my conscience will be the main crime of a decent man, impurity.
Do you recommend a knife to your throat?
- Certainly, and so that your hand is closer to his lips.
He will kiss your hand, and everything will end well, Wronsky replied.
- So now in French! - And, shouting in her dress, she disappeared.
Kamerovsky went up too, and Vronsky, not waiting for his departure, gave him the hand and went to the cleaning room.
While he was washing, Petritsky described him in short terms his position, how it changed after Vronsky's departure.
Money is nothing.
The father said he would not give or pay debts.
The port wants to plant, and the other also threatens to plant.
The commander of the army said that if these scandals do not cease, then we must go out.
Baronessa was bored, like a gorgeous red, especially that everyone wants to give money; and there is one, he will show it to Vronsky, miracle, beauty, in the eastern strict style, "Rebecca's slave genre, you understand."
Berkoshev also agreed yesterday, and he wanted to send seconds, but, of course, nothing will come out.
In general, everything is great and extremely fun. And, without giving the companion to deepen in the details of his situation, Petritsky allowed to tell him all the interesting news.
Hearing the so familiar stories of Petritsky in the so familiar environment of his three-year apartment, Vronsky experienced a pleasant feeling of return to the usual and care-free Petersburg life.
It cannot be! He screamed, releasing the washer's pedal, with which he wrapped his red healthy neck. - It can't be! - he screamed when the news was that Laura met with Mileev and left Fertingoff. Is he so stupid and satisfied?
But what is butterfly?
- Oh, with Buzzulkov there was a story - beauty! But his passion is balls, and he doesn’t miss any court ball.
He went to a big ball in a new cassette.
Have you seen new helmets? Very good, easier.
It is worth him...
No, you are listening.
“Yes, I’m listening,” Wronsky answered, stretching with a moist handheld.
The great princess passes with some ambassador, and on his trouble they talk about the new casks. The Great Princess and wanted to show a new helmet.
You see our bull is worth.
(Petrick has shown how he stands with a helmet.) The great princess asked to give herself a helmet, but he did not give it.
What is?
He is blurred, blurred, blurred.
Give it.
does not give. It died.
You can imagine...
Only this... like him... wants to take a hat... does not give!
He broke out, gives the great princess.
“This is the new,” says the great princess. I turned the helmet back, and you can imagine that it is from there! Sweets, desserts, two pounds of sweets!
He got it, butterfly!
Vronsky repented with laughter. And a long time later, speaking about another, he was stuck with his healthy laughter, exposing his strong smooth teeth when he remembered the helmet.
After learning all the news, Vronsky with the help of a lacky dressed in a mndir and went to be.
When he appeared, he intended to go to his brother, to Betty and make a few visits in order to start traveling to the light where he could meet Karenina.
As always in St. Petersburg, he left the house in order not to return until late night.
Part 2
At the end of the winter, a consilium took place in the sherbatsky house, which had to decide what the health of Kitty is in and what to do to restore her weakening forces.
She was sick, and with the approaching of spring her health was worse.
The home doctor gave her fish fat, then iron, then lapis, but as neither one nor the third helped and as he advised from the spring to go abroad, the famous doctor was invited.
The famous doctor, not old yet, a very beautiful man, needed a patient examination.
He with a special pleasure seemed to insist that virgin shame is only the remainder of barbarism and that there is nothing more natural than that the old man would not feel a young naked girl.
He found it natural because he did it every day and at the same time he didn’t feel anything and didn’t think it seemed bad, and therefore the shame in the girl he considered not only the remainder of barbarism, but also insulting himself.
It had to be obedient, because, despite the fact that all doctors studied in one school, on the same books, knew one science, and despite the fact that some said that this famous doctor was a bad doctor, in the house of the princess and in her circle was recognized somehow that this famous doctor one knows something special and one can save Kitty.
After a careful examination and shutdown of the miserable and shameful patient, the famous doctor, carefully washing his hands, stood in the living room and spoke with the prince the prince swallowed, shutdown, listening to the doctor.
He, as a survivor, not a fool and not a sick person, did not believe in medicine and was angry at all this comedy, even more that he was hardly the only one who fully understood the cause of Kitty's disease. “It’s a vacuum,” he thought, applying in his thoughts this name from the hunting dictionary to the famous doctor and listening to his talk about the signs of the daughter’s disease.
Meanwhile, the doctor hardly retained the expression of negligence to this old baric and hardly dropped to the lowest level of his understanding.
He realized that there was nothing to talk to the old man and that the head in this house was the mother.
Before it, he intended to dissolve his pear.
At that time, the princess entered the living room with a doctor.
The prince went away, trying not to notice how funny all this comedy was to him.
The princess was disappointed and didn’t know what to do.
She felt guilty before Kitty.
“Well, doctor, decide our fate,” the princess said. Tell me everything. “Is there hope?” She wanted to say, but her lips were narrowed, and she couldn’t answer that question. What do you do, doctor?
Now, Princess, I will negotiate with my colleague and then I will have the honor to give you my opinion.
Do we leave you?
As you would like.
The princess, breathing out, went out.
When the doctors remained alone, the home physician slowly began to expose his opinion, consisting in the fact that there is the beginning of the tuberculosis process, but... etc.
The famous doctor listened to him and in the middle of his speech looked at his big gold clocks.
“Yes,” he said. But...
The doctor silent in the middle of the speech.
- To determine, as you know, the beginning of the tuberculosis process we cannot; before the appearance of covers there is nothing certain. But we can suspect.
And the indication is: bad nutrition, nervous excitement and so on.
The question is: if you suspect a tuberculosis process, what should you do to maintain nutrition?
But, because you know, there are always moral, spiritual reasons hiding, with a thin smile the doctor allowed himself to insert.
“Yes, that’s obvious,” the famous doctor replied, looking at the clock again. Winnowat: What, is the Yousafzai Bridge placed, or is it still necessary to travel around? He asked him. A! provided.
Yes, I can be in twenty minutes.
So we said that the question was so put: to maintain nutrition and to fix the nerves.
One in relation to the other, you have to act on both sides of the circle.
But a trip abroad? I asked the home doctor.
I am the enemy of travel abroad.
And let’s see: if there’s the beginning of a tuberculosis process that we can’t know, then travel abroad will not help.
It requires a means that supports the food and does not harm it.
And the famous doctor exposed his plan of treatment with the Sodenic waters, whose appointment, obviously, the main objective was that they can’t hurt.
The doctor listened carefully and carefully.
But in favour of traveling abroad I would expose a change in habits, a removal from the conditions that cause memories.
And then the mother wants, he said.
A! Well, in this case, let them go; only the German charlatans will hurt...
We need to listen...
So let them go.
He looked at the clock again.
Oh Oh Oh! It was time, and he went to the door.
The famous doctor announced to the princess (the feeling of mercy suggested this) that he should see the sick again.
How to! Again to look at it! - Mother screamed with horrors.
I have some details, Princess.
We ask for mercy.
And the mother, accompanied by the doctor, entered the living room to Kitty.
Weighty and ruminate, with a special glow in the eyes due to the shame, Kitty stood in the middle of the room.
When the doctor entered, she exploded, and her eyes were filled with tears.
All her illness and healing seemed to her such a stupid, even funny thing!
Her treatment seemed to her as funny as the composition of pieces of broken vase.
Her heart was broken.
What do they want to treat her with pills and powder?
But it was not possible to offend the mother, especially that the mother considered herself guilty.
- Try to sit down, princess, - said the famous doctor.
He fell against her with a smile, took the pulse and again began to ask boring questions.
She answered him and suddenly, angry, he got up.
Sorry, doctor, but that is right, it will not lead to anything.
You ask me the same thing three times.
The famous doctor was not harassed.
“A painful irritation,” he told the princess when Kitty went out. But I ended...
And the doctor before the princess, as before an extremely intelligent woman, scientifically determined the position of the princess and concluded the instructions on how to drink the waters that were unnecessary.
Asked whether to go abroad, the doctor was deeply thinking about how to solve the difficult question. The decision was finally made: to drive and not believe in the charlatans, but in everything to turn to him.
Something funny happened after the doctor's departure. The mother joined when she returned to her daughter, and Kitty pretended that she joined.
She often, almost always, had to pretend now.
I am healthy, mom.
But if you want to go, let’s go! — she said and, trying to show that she’s interested in the upcoming trip, she began to talk about preparations for the departure.
Dolly came to the doctor.
She knew that that day had to be a consilium, and despite the fact that she recently rose from the birth (she gave birth to a girl at the end of the winter), despite the fact that she had a lot of her anger and concern, she, leaving the baby and the sick girl, went to know about the participation of Kitty, who decided today.
“Well, what?” she said, entering the living room without taking the hat. You are all fun.
Well right, well?
She was trying to tell her what the doctor said, but it turned out that although the doctor spoke very hard and long, it was not possible to tell what he said.
Interesting was only that it was decided to go abroad.
Dolly suddenly breathed.
Her best friend, her sister, went away. Her life was not fun.
The relationship with Stepan Arkadic after the reconciliation became humiliating.
The spike made by Anna was unclean, and the family agreement broke again in the same place.
Nothing was certain, but Stephan Arkadić was almost never at home, money was almost never, and suspicions of infidelity were constantly tortured by Dolly, and she had already thrown them away from herself, afraid of the suffering of jealousy.
The first explosion of jealousy, once experienced, could no longer return, and even the discovery of unbelief could no longer affect it as the first time.
Such discovery would now only lose her family habits, and she allowed herself to cheat, neglecting him and most of all herself for this weakness.
On top of that, the concerns of the large family constantly tortured her: the breastfeeding of the baby didn’t go, the grandmother left, then, as now, one of the children was sick.
What like yours? I asked my mother.
Oh, mom, you have a lot of sadness.
Lily was sick, and I'm afraid of scarlatin.
Now I’ve gone out to know, and then I’ll sit without a way, if, save God, Scarlatine.
The old prince, after the doctor's departure, also went out of his cabinet and, put his shark on Dolly and talked to her, addressed his wife:
How did you decide to eat?
What do you want to do with me?
“I think you’re going to stay, Alexander,” the wife said.
as you want.
“Mama, why don’t dad go with us? Kitty said. He is more fun for us as well.
The old prince stood up and smoothed Kitty's hair with his hand.
She lifted her face and, smiling, looked at him.
She always seemed that he best of all in the family understands her, although he had little to talk to her.
She was, as little, the father's favourite, and it seemed to her that his love for her made him insightful.
When her eyes met now with his blue, good eyes, carefully looking at her, it seemed to her that he looked at her and understood all the bad things that were done in her.
She, red, dragged to him, waiting for a kiss, but he just dragged her hair and said:
These stupid shadows!
You don’t get to your real daughter, but you’re lacking the hair of a thick grandmother.
Well, the Valley, - he turned to his older daughter, - what is your puppy dividing?
“Nothing, dad,” Dolly replied, realizing that it was about her husband. “Everything runs, I almost don’t see him, she couldn’t add with a laughing smile.
He did not go to the village to sell forests.
No, everything is gathering.
This is what the prince said. Do I also gather?
He turned to his wife and sat down. “But you, Katya,” he added to his younger daughter, “you’ll one day, one beautiful day, pray and say to yourself, ‘I’m very healthy and happy, and we’ll go with the father again early in the morning to walk in the ice.
and?
It seemed that it was very simple what the father said, but Kitty was mixed and disappointed with these words, like a disappointed criminal.
“Yes, he knows everything, he understands everything, and with these words he tells me that although he’s ashamed, he has to survive his shame.”
She couldn’t come together with the spirit to answer anything.
She began and suddenly cried out and escaped from the room.
- This is your joke! - the princess went on to her husband. – You always... – she began her corrupt speech.
The prince listened to the princess' complaints for a long time and silenced, but his face became more and more dark.
She’s so sad, poor, so sad, and you don’t feel that she’s suffering from any clue to what the cause.
Oh the! Wrong in people! - said the princess, and by changing her tone Dolly and the prince realized that she was talking about Vronsky. I don’t understand why there are no laws against such ugly, unnormal people.
- Oh, I't listen! - the prince spoke darkly, standing up from the chair and hoping to leave, but staying in the door. “Laws are there, mother, and if you have called me to do so, I will tell you who is guilty in all things: you and you are alone.
The laws against such young people have always been and existed!
Yes, if there wasn’t what shouldn’t be, I’d be an old man, but I’d put him on the barrier, this front.
Yes, and now heal, take these charlatans to you.
The prince seemed to have to say a lot more, but as soon as the princess heard his tone, she, as always in serious matters, immediately humbled and regretted.
“Alexandre, Alexandre,” she cried, moving, and cried.
As soon as she was crying, the prince was still. He approached her.
Well, will be, will be!
It’s hard for you, I know.
What to do?
There is no great trouble.
God blessed... thank you... he said, not knowing what he said, and responding to the wet kiss of the princess, which he felt on his hand. He went out of the room.
As soon as Kitty in tears came out of the room, Dolly, with her maternal, family habit, immediately saw that there was a female affair, and prepared to do it.
She took off her hat and, morally hanging her arms, prepared to act.
During the mother's attack on her father, she tried to keep her mother as much as the daughter's respect permitted.
During the explosion of the prince, she was silent; she felt a shame for her mother and a kindness to her father for his now returning kindness; but when the father left, she gathered to do the most important thing, to go to Kitty and calm her.
“I’ve long wanted to tell you, mom, you know that Levin wanted to offer Kitty when he was here for the last time?
He spoke to Steve.
Well what?
I don’t understand...
Maybe Kitty has rejected him.
She didn’t tell you?
“No, she didn’t say anything about either one or another; she’s too proud.
But I know that all of this...
“Yes, you imagine if she rejected Levin, and she would not reject him, if not, I know...
And then he so terribly deceived her.
The princess was too scary to think how much she was guilty before her daughter, and she was angry.
Oh, I don’t understand anything!
Everyone wants to live with their mind, the mothers don’t say anything, and then here and here.
Mom, I will go to her.
to go.
Do I prohibit you? My mother said.
By entering the small cabinet of Kitty, a nice, bright, with vieux saxe dolls, a room, as young, bright and fun as Kitty was two months ago, Dolly remembered how they cleaned this room together last year, with what joy and love.
Her heart was cold when she saw Kitty sitting on the bottom, close to the door of the chair, and stretching her unmoving eyes to the corner of the coat.
Kitty looked at her sister, and the cold, somewhat severe expression of her face did not change.
“I’m going to go and sit home, and you won’t be with me,” said Daria Alexandrovna, sitting under her. I want to talk to you.
About What? He raised his head and quickly asked Kitty.
What about your mountains?
I have no sadness.
Full of Kitty.
Do you think I can’t know?
I know everything.
Believe me, it’s so bad.
We all passed through it.
Kitty was silent, and her face had a strict expression.
“He doesn’t deserve that you suffer because of him,” continued Daria Alexandrovna, directly coming to the case.
“Yes, because he has neglected me,” Kitty spoke with a narrow voice. Do not speak!
Please don’t speak!
Who told you that?
No one said that.
I am confident? He was in love with you and was in love with you, but...
— Oh, the worst thing to me is that compassion! — screamed Kitty, suddenly angry.
She turned on the chair, reddened and quickly swallowed her fingers, pressing it with the other hand the belt she held.
Dolly knew her sister's way to catch her hands when she came into the heat; she knew how Kitty was able to forget and tell a lot of excessive and unpleasant at the moment of the heat, and Dolly wanted to calm her; but it was too late.
What do you want to make me feel, right? Kitty spoke quickly. That I was in love with a person who didn’t want to know me, and that I die from love for him?
And that’s what a sister says to me, who thinks... what... that she’s saddening!
I don’t want these regrets and complaints!
Kitty, you are unjust.
Why do you torture me?
I, on the contrary, see that I’m angry.
But Kitty did not hear her in her hotness.
I have nothing to confuse and comfort.
I’m so proud that I’ll never let myself love someone who doesn’t love me.
Yes, I don’t say...
One thing — tell me the truth — spoke, taking her in the hand, Darya Alexandrovna — tell me, Levin told you?
The remembrance of Levine seemed to have lost Kitty the last self-control; she jumped out of the chair and, throwing a strip on the ground and making fast gestures with her hands, said:
What else does Levin do?
I don’t understand why you have to torture me.
I said and repeat that I am proud and I will never, never, do what you do, to return to the man who changed you, who loved another woman.
I don’t understand, I don’t understand it!
You can, and I can’t!
And, said these words, she looked at her sister, and, seeing that Dolly was silent, sadly leaving her head, Kitty, instead of going out of the room, as she intended, sat at the door and, closing her face with a plate, leaving her head.
The silence lasted for two minutes.
Dolly thought of herself.
That humiliation she always felt was painful in her when her sister reminded her of it.
She did not expect such cruelty from her sister and was angry on her.
But suddenly she heard the noise of her clothes and the sound of the striking striking, and someone’s hands from below hugged her neck. The kid on his knees stood in front of her.
I'm so unhappy! - I'm so unhappy. - I'm so unhappy.
And the sweet face covered with tears was hidden in the jacket of the dress of Darya Alexandrovna.
As if the tears were the necessary ointment, without which the machine of mutual communication between the two sisters could not succeed, the sisters after the tears did not talk about what occupied them; but, speaking of the stranger, they understood each other.
Kitty understood that the word she said in her hearts about her husband’s unfaithfulness and humiliation to the depth of her heart hit the poor sister, but that she forgived her. Dolly, on her side, understood everything she wanted to know; she was convinced that her assumptions were true, that the evil and unheal of Kitty was precisely that Levin made an offer and that she rejected him, and Vronsky deceived her, and that she was ready to love Levin and hate Vronsky.
Kitty didn’t say a word about it; she just talked about her mental state.
“I don’t have any sadness,” she said, calming, “but can you understand that everything has become ugly, ugly, brutal to me, and above all, I am myself.
You can’t imagine what stupid thoughts I have about everything.
What kind of foolish thoughts can you have? She asked Dolly with a smile.
The most, the most ugly and the most brutal; I can’t tell you.
It’s not boring, not boring, but much worse.
As if everything that was good in me was hidden, and the worst remains.
How do I tell you? She continued, seeing trouble in her sister’s eyes. “My dad begins to talk to me... I think he just thinks I need to get married.
My mom brings me to the ball: I think she only then brings me to get married faster and get rid of me.
I know that’s wrong, but I can’t withdraw those thoughts.
I can’t see the so-called wives.
I think they are removing me.
Before going somewhere in a ball dress for me was a simple pleasure, I loved myself; now I’m ashamed, uncomfortable.
What you want!
Doctor... Well...
Kitty was disappointed; she wanted to further say that since this change was made with her, Stephan Arkadić became unbearably unpleasant to her and that she could not see him without the concepts of the most brutal and impeccable.
“Well, I think it’s all in the most brutal, ugly way,” she continued. This is my disease.
Maybe it will pass...
And you don’t think...
I cannot.
I’m good with my kids, only with you.
I'm sorry you can't be with me.
No, I will come.
I had a scarlatine and I will ask my mom.
Kitty insisted on her own and moved to her sister and all the scarlate that really came, cared for the children.
Both sisters went well out of all the six children, but Kitty's health didn't improve and the big post Sherbatsky left abroad.
The highest circle of St. Petersburg, in fact, is one; everyone knows each other, even rides to each other.
But in this large circle there are its units.
Anna Arkadievna Karenina had friends and close connections in three different circles.
One circle was the official, official circle of her husband, consisting of his co-workers and subordinates, the most diverse and attractive way connected and divided in public conditions.
Anna now could hardly remember the sense of almost divine respect that she had at first to these persons.
Now she knew all of them, how they know each other in the western city; she knew who had the habits and weaknesses, who had the foot of a shoe; she knew their relationship to each other and to the main center; she knew who for whom and how and what they hold and who with whom and in what they agree and divide; but this circle of governmental, male interests never, despite the suggestions of Count Lydia Ivanovna, could interest her, she escaped him.
Another close Anne circle - it was the one through which Alexey Alexandrovich made his career.
The center of this circle was Count Lydia Ivanovna.
It was a circle of old, unpleasant, virtuous and divine women and intelligent, scientist, ambitious men.
One of the smart people belonging to this circle called it “the conscience of the Petersburg society.”
Alexey Alexandrovich loved this circle very much, and Anna, so capable of living with everyone, found herself in the first time of her Petersburg life friends and in this circle.
Now, after returning from Moscow, this circle became unbearable to her.
She seemed that both she and all of them are pretending, and she became so boring and unpleasant in this society that she was driving as little as possible to Count Lydia Ivanovna.
The third circle, finally where she had connections, was actually the light, the light of the balls, the meals, the brilliant toilets, the light holding one hand behind the courtyard, so as not to fall down to the half of the light that the members of this circle thought they had neglected, but with which the tastes had not only the same, but the same.
Her connection to this circle was held through the princess Betsy Tverskaya, the wife of her two-year-old brother, who had a hundred twenty thousand income and who since the appearance of Anna in the world loved her, cared for her and dragged into her circle, laughing over the circle of Count Lydia Ivanovna.
“When I’m old and bad, I’m going to do the same,” said Betty, “but for you, for a young, good woman, it’s too early to go to this rich farm.
Anna first time avoided, as much as she could, this light of the princess of Tverskaya, as he demanded expenses above her funds, and in her soul she preferred the first; but after a trip to Moscow it was the opposite.
She escaped her moral friends and traveled into the great light.
There she met Vronsky and felt an exciting joy at these meetings.
Particularly frequently she met Vronsky with Betsy, who was born Vronsky and his two-year-old.
Wronsky was everywhere he could only meet Anna, and told her when he could, about his love.
She did not give him any reason, but every time she met him, she burned in her soul the same feeling of revival that found on her on that day in the wagon when she first saw him.
She herself felt that when she saw him, the joy glowed in her eyes and smiled her lips in a smile, and she couldn’t hide the expression of that joy.
The first time Anna honestly believed that she was unhappy with them that he allowed herself to pursue her; but soon after her return from Moscow, coming to the evening where she thought to meet him, and he was not there, she understood clearly by her own sadness that she was cheating herself, that this pursuit was not only unhappy to her, but that it was the whole interest of her life.
The famous singer sang for the second time, and all the great light was in the theater.
Seeing from his chair in the first row a cousin, Vronsky, not waiting for anthract, went to her in the bed.
Why did you not come to dinner? She told him. “I am surprised by the clarity of the loved ones,” she added with a smile, so that he alone heard, “She was not.
Come after the opera.
Vronsky looked at her questionfully.
She swallowed her head. He smiled and thanked her and sat under her.
— And how I remember your laughter! — continued Princess Betty, finding a special pleasure in pursuing the success of this passion. Where it all happened!
You are caught, my dear.
“I just want to be captured,” Vronsky replied with his quiet and kind smile. If I complain, it’s just that it’s too little understood to say the truth.
I begin to lose hope.
What can you have hope? – said Betty, insulting for her friend, – understands us... – But the fire was running in her eyes, saying, she was very good, and just like him, she understands what he could have hope.
- No one, - laughing and putting out his smooth teeth, Wronsky said. He added, taking a binocle from her hand and starting to look through her naked shoulder the opposite series of lies. I am afraid I will become a mixture.
He knew very well that in the eyes of Betty and all the worldly people he did not risk to be funny.
He knew very well that in the eyes of these persons the role of the unfortunate lover of a girl and of a free woman could be funny; but the role of a man who approached a married woman and in whatever way put his life on to involve her in the marriage, that this role has something beautiful, magnificent and can never be funny, and therefore he with pride and joy, playing under his mouths with a smile, left the binocle and looked at the carpet.
Why did you not come to dinner? She said, loving them.
This must be told to you.
I was busy and what?
I give you one of a hundred, one of a thousand, you will not guess.
I peaceed my husband with the offender of his wife.
Yes right!
And have they reconciled?
Almost.
“You have to tell me this,” she said up. Come to that contract.
I’m going to the French Theatre.
From Nilson? With horror, she asked Betty, who for nothing recognized Nilson from any horrors.
What to do? I am familiar with it, all about this matter of my peace.
“Blessed peace makers, they will be saved,” said Betty, remembering something like that she heard from someone. Go down and tell me what it is?
And she sat again.
“It’s a little immeasurable, but so nice that I really want to tell you,” Wronsky said, looking at her with laughing eyes. I will not call the names.
But I will guess, the better.
Listen, there are two fun young men.
Of course, officers of your regiment?
I’m not talking about officers, I’m just talking about two young men.
Translated by: Drunk
Maybe is.
They go for lunch with a friend, in the most joyful location of the spirit.
And they see a good woman pursue them on the carrier, look at them, and, at least they think, cries them and laughs.
They are, of course, behind her. They jump in the whole spirit.
To surprise them, the beauty stops at the entrance of the same house where they go.
The beauty escapes to the top floor.
They only see ruby lips from under a short wave and beautiful small legs.
You are telling it with such a feeling that I think you are one of these two.
What did you say to me now?
Well, the young people go to the friend, he has a goodbye lunch.
Here, of course, they drink,, more than usual at the goodbye meals.
And after lunch they ask who lives at the top of this house.
No one knows, and only the lakey of the owner to their question: whether the mammals live above, replies that they are very many here.
After lunch, the young people go to the office to the owner and write a letter to the unknown. They recorded a passionate letter, a confession, and they themselves carry the letter up to explain what in the letter would not be quite understood.
Why do you tell me so bad things?
They call.
The girl comes out, they give a letter and assure the girl that they are so in love that they will now die here at the door.
The girl undergoes negotiations.
Suddenly he is a gentleman with bakebards, red like cancer, declares that no one lives in the house except his wife, and expels both.
Why do you know that he has bakebards, as you say, cowboys?
And here listen.
I went on to peace them.
Well and what?
This is the most interesting.
It turns out that it is a happy chain of the title counselor and the title counselor.
The title counselor submits the lobby, and I am a reconciliator, and what!
I assure you, Taleeran nothing compared to me.
What is the difficulty?
Here you listen...
We apologized as follows: “We are desperate, we ask for forgiveness for the unfortunate misunderstanding.”
The title counselor begins to hide, but he also wants to express his feelings, and as soon as he begins to express them, he begins to get hot and to speak cruelty, and again I have to put all my diplomatic talents in motion.
“I agree that their behavior is not good, but I ask you to take into account misunderstandings, youth; then the young people just after a meal.
You understand.
They repent from all their soul and ask for forgiveness for their guilt.”
“I agree, Count, and I’m ready to forgive, but you understand that my wife, my wife, a honest woman, is subjected to persecution, cruelty, and courtesy of some boys, crazy...”
And you understand, this boy is here, and I have to reconcile them. Again, I put the diplomacy in motion, and again, as soon as I have to conclude the whole matter, my title counselor is hot, red, the colbassics are rising, and again I am swallowing in diplomatic subtles. Oh, I have to tell you this! - Laughing, Betty turned to the lady entering her bed. He laughed me so.
“Well, good chance,” she added, giving to Vron’s finger, free from holding the veer, and by moving the shoulder leaving the lift of the dress, so that it should be quite naked when it comes forward, to the ramp, to the light of gas and to all the eyes.
Wronsky went to the French Theatre, where he really needed to see a military commander who didn’t miss any performance in the French Theatre, in order to negotiate with him about his peace creation, which occupied and entertained him for the third day.
In this case was involved Petritsky, whom he loved, and another, recently made, the glorious little, great companion, the young prince of Kederov.
And most importantly, the interests of the regiment were interfered.
Both were in the Vronsky squadron.
A officer, the title counselor Wenden, came to the military commander with a complaint on his officers who caught his wife.
His young wife, as Wenden told, — he was married for six years — was in the church with his mother and, suddenly feeling the illness arising from a known situation, couldn’t stand anymore and went home on the first rabbit she got.
Here the officers went for her, she was scared and, even more sick, fled the stairs home.
Wenden himself, returning from the presence, heard the call and some voices, went out and, seeing the drunk officers with the letter, pulled them out.
He asked for a strict punishment.
“No, as you want,” said the army commander to Vronsky, inviting him to himself, “Petritsky becomes impossible.
There is no week without history.
This officer will not leave the job, he will go further.
Wronsky saw all the invisibility of this case and that there can’t be duels here, that we have to do everything to soften this titular counselor and replace the case.
The army commander called Vronsky just because he knew him as a noble and intelligent man and, most importantly, as a person who was honoured by the army.
They swallowed and decided that it was necessary to drive Petritsky and Kedrov with Vronsky to this title counselor to apologize.
The Polk Commander and Vronsky both understood that the name of Vronsky and the Flegel-Adjutant Venzel should greatly contribute to the mitigation of the title counselor. Indeed, these two means were partially valid; but the result of the reconciliation remained doubtful, as Vronsky said.
Coming to the French Theatre, Vronsky went away with the army commander in the foyer and told him his success or failure.
Considering everything, the commandant decided to leave the matter without consequences, but then for pleasure he began to ask Vronsky about the details of his acquaintance and for a long time he could not withstand the laughter, listening to the story of Vronsky about how the quiet title counselor suddenly again burned up, remembering the details of the matter, and how Vronsky, labyrinty at the last half word of reconciliation, retireed, thick ahead of himself Petritsky.
A narrow story, but tired.
He cannot fight with this gentleman.
Is it so hot? He laughed and asked. What is Clare now?
Wonder!-- he told about a new French actress. No matter how much you look, every day a new...
Only the French can do this.
Princess Betty, not waiting for the end of the last act, left the theater.
Just she managed to enter her cleaning room, to sweat her long blurry face with a powder, to remove it, to fix her hairstyle and to order tea in the big living room, as one after the other began to get the cars to her huge house on the Great Sea.
The guests went out on a wide entrance, and the tightened Swiss, who read in the morning, for the encouragement of the passengers, behind the glass door of the newspaper, opened this huge door soundlessly, passing through the passengers.
Almost at the same time they entered: a housewife with a refreshing hairstyle and a refreshing face from one door and guests from the other into a large living room with dark walls, smoke covers and a bright lighted table, glowing under the flames a candle of white scattery, silver savara and a transparent garlic of the tea device.
The owner sat for the samvar and took out his gloves.
Moving the chairs with the help of invisible lakes, the society was placed, divided into two parts, - at the samovara with the hostess and at the opposite end of the living room - near the beautiful wife of the messenger in a black bark and with black sharp brushes.
The conversation in both centers, as always in the first minutes, was twisted, overwhelmed by meetings, greetings, the offer of tea, how to find what to stop.
“She’s unusually good as an actress; it’s clear that she has studied Kaulbach,” said a diplomat in the circle of the messenger’s wife, “you’ve noticed how she fell...
Let’s not talk about Nilson. “There’s nothing new to say about her,” said a thick, red, without brushes and without shignon, a white lady in a old silk dress.
It was a gentle princess, known for her simplicity, harshness of treatment, and called a terrible child.
The Princess Soft was sitting in the middle between the two circles and, listening, participated both in that and in the other. “Three people told me the same phrase about Kaulbach, they talked exactly.
I don’t know what, so I liked it.
The conversation was interrupted by this comment, and a new topic was to be invented again.
“Tell us something fun, but not bad,” said the messenger’s wife, the great master of a nice conversation called small-talk in English, addressing a diplomat who didn’t know what to start now.
“They say it’s very hard, that only evil is funny,” he started with a smile. But I will try.
Give him.
It’s all about the topic.
If the topic is given, it’s easy to pull it out.
I often think that the famous speakers of the past century would be now in difficulty to speak smart.
Every smart is so tired.
- It has long been said, - laughing, his wife passed the messenger.
The conversation started nice, but just because he was too nice, he stopped again.
It was necessary to recour to a true, never-changing means – evil.
Do you not find that there is something Louis XV in Tushkiewicz? He said, pointing with his eyes to the beautiful white young man standing at the table.
Oh yeah!
He’s in the same taste with the living room, that’s why he’s so often here.
This conversation was supported, as the clues were spoken about exactly what was not to be said in this living room, i.e. about the relations of Tushkiewicz to the master.
A conversation between the self-government and the hostess, just like it, passed some time between the three inevitable topics: the last public news, theatre and the condemnation of the neighbor, also established, getting to the last topic, that is, to the evil.
“You’ve heard, and Maltyshev, not his daughter, but his mother, is dressing himself in the dress of the devil rose.
It cannot be!
No, it is beautiful!
I'm surprised how with her mind, she's not stupid, she doesn't see how funny she's.
Everyone had something to say in the condemnation and laughter of the unfortunate Malticheva, and the conversation was joyfully tightened like a burned coaster.
Prince Betty's husband, a gentle thick, a passionate graffiti collector, when he learned that his wife had a guest, went to the living room in front of the club.
Unheardly, on the soft coat, he approached the gentle princess.
How did you like Nilson? He said.
Is it possible to be stolen?
How you scared me, she answered. Please don’t talk to me about the opera, you don’t understand anything in music.
Better I will go down to you and talk to you about your mayolics and gravures.
What kind of treasure did you buy recently?
Do you want me to show you?
But you don’t know the interpretation.
to show.
I’ve learned from these, how they’re called... bankers... they have beautiful graphs.
They showed us.
How did you go to Stuttgart? I asked the owner of the samurai.
It was, ma chere.
They called us to lunch with my husband, and they told me that the sauce for that lunch was worth a thousand rubles, — said the gentle princess loudly, feeling that everyone was listening to her — and a very ugly sauce, something green.
I had to call them, and I made the sauce for eighty-five cups, and they were all very happy.
I can’t make a thousand drops.
— She is the only one! — said the master.
It is amazing! Someone said.
The effect produced by the words of the gentle princess was always the same, and the secret of the effect produced by her was that she spoke, though not as much as now, but simple things that had meaning.
In the society where she lived, such words produced the effect of the smartest joke.
Princess Soft could not understand why it was so, but she knew it was so, and used it.
Since the princess' speech was all listening to her and the conversation around the messenger's wife ended, the master wanted to connect the whole society together and addressed the messenger's wife:
Do you really want tea?
You would go to us.
“No, we’re very good here,” the messenger’s wife answered with a smile and continued the conversation.
The conversation was very pleasant.
They condemned Karenians, his wife and husband.
“Anna has changed very much from her Moscow trip.
“There’s something strange in her,” said her girlfriend.
“The main change is that she brought with her the shadow of Alexey Vronsky,” the messenger’s wife said.
Well what?
Grimm has a swimming pool: man without shadow, man without shadow. It is a punishment for something.
I never knew what the punishment was.
But a woman should be unpleasant without shadow.
“Yes, but women with shadows usually end badly,” said Anna’s girlfriend.
“Typ on your tongue,” said the gentle princess suddenly, hearing these words. Karenina is a beautiful woman.
I don't love her husband and I love her very much.
Why don’t you love your husband?
He’s such a wonderful man,” said the messenger’s wife. His husband says that there are few such public people in Europe.
“My husband says the same to me, but I don’t believe,” said the gentle princess. If our husband did not speak, we would see what it is, and Alexey Alexandrovich, in my opinion, is just a fool.
I shout this...
Is it not true that everything is done clearly?
Before I was told to find him intelligent, I was all searching for and finding that I was stupid, not seeing his mind; but once I said, he is stupid, but with a noise, everything became so clear, isn’t it?
How evil are you now!
Not a few.
I have no other way out.
One of us is two stupid. Well, you know, you can never say that about yourself.
“No one is satisfied with his state, and everyone is satisfied with his mind,” the diplomat said in the French verse.
- That's exactly, - the gentle princess quickly turned to him. I’m not going to give you Anna.
She is so glorious, cute.
What should she do if everyone is in love with her and, as shadows, walks for her?
“I don’t think I’m going to condemn,” the girlfriend of Anna justified.
If no one follows us like a shadow, it does not prove that we have the right to condemn.
And, dividing, as it was, the girlfriend of Anna, the gentle princess stood up and joined the messenger's wife to the table, where there was a common conversation about the Prussian king.
What did you blame there? He asked Betty.
About the Carnival.
The princess made the characteristic of Alexey Alexandrovich, — answered the messenger's wife, with a smile sitting at the table.
“Sorry we didn’t hear,” said the owner, looking at the entrance door. She turned with a smile to the entering Vronsky.
Wronsky was not only familiar with everyone, but he saw every day everyone he met here, and therefore he entered with those quiet receptions with which they entered the room to the people from which they just left.
Where am I? He answered the question of the messenger’s wife. What to do should be acknowledged. From Buff.
It seems a hundred times, and all with a new pleasure.
The beauty!
I know it’s a shame; but in the opera I sleep, and in the Buffah I get to the last minute, and it’s fun.
A little...
He named the French actress and wanted to tell something about her; but the messenger's wife with a joke horror crossed him:
Please don’t tell me about this horror.
Well, I won’t, especially that everyone knows these horrors.
“And everybody would go there, if it was accepted as much as the opera,” the gentle princess said.
At the entrance door were heard steps, and princess Betty, knowing that it was Karenina, looked at Vronsky.
He looked at the door, and his face had a strange new expression.
He joyfully, vigorously and closely looked at the entrance and slowly climbed up.
Anna was in the room. As always, staying extremely straight, with her fast, hard and easy step, which distinguished her from the walks of other secular women, and without changing the direction of her view, she made the few steps that separated her from the master, stretched her hand, smiled, and with that smile looked at Vronsky.
Vronsky worshipped down and moved her chair.
She only responded with a turning of her head, reddened and swallowed.
But at the same time, quickly kicking the acquaintance and pushing the stretched hands, she turned to the master:
I was with Count Lydia and wanted to come earlier, but I sat down.
She had Sir John.
very interesting.
Is this missionary?
- Yes, he talked about Indian life very interesting.
The conversation, overwhelmed by the arrival, again melted like the fire of a swallowed lamp.
Sir John!
Yes Sir John.
I saw him.
He speaks well.
Vlaeva is completely in love with him.
Is it true that Vlajeva is less than Topov?
They say that it is completely resolved.
I am surprised by my parents.
They say it is a marriage of passion.
by passion?
What anti-differential thoughts you have!
Who is talking about passion? The wife of the messenger said.
What to do?
This stupid old fashion is still unleashed, Wronsky said.
The worse for those who hold this fashion...
I know happy marriages only by reason.
“Yes, but how often the happiness of marriages by reason flows like dust, just because there is the same passion that they did not recognize,” Wronsky said.
But marriages by reason we call those when both are already angry.
It’s like a scarlate, it’s going through it.
Then you have to learn to artificially vaccinate love as a spoon.
“When I was young, I was in love with a boy,” said the princess Soft. I don’t know if it helped me.
“No, I think, without jokes, that in order to know love, you have to make a mistake and then correct,” Princess Betty said.
Even after marriage? The messenger’s wife laughed.
“It’s never too late to apologize,” the diplomat told the English proverb.
That’s what Betty said, we need to make a mistake and fix it.
How do you think about it? She turned to Anne, who with a slightly firm smile on her lips silently listened to this conversation.
I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think.
Vronsky looked at Anna and with a heartbreaking waiting for her to say.
He breathed as if after the danger when she spoke these words.
Anna suddenly addressed him:
I got a letter from Moscow.
It is written to me that Kitty Scherbatska is very sick.
Or not? In the dark, Wronsky said.
Anna looked at him strictly.
Are you not interested in this?
On the contrary, very much.
What are you written if you can know? He asked him.
Anna stood up and came to Betty.
“Give me a cup of tea,” she said, staying behind her chair.
While Princess Betty was drinking her tea, Vronsky came to Anne.
What are you written? He repeated it.
“I often think that men don’t understand what’s wicked, but they’re always talking about it,” Anna said without answering him. “I’ve long wanted to tell you, she added and, passing a few steps, sat at the corner table with albums.
“I don’t understand the meaning of your words,” he said, giving her a cup.
“Yes, I wanted to tell you,” she said without looking at him. You did badly, badly, very badly.
Do I don’t know what I’ve done wrong?
But who is the reason I did that?
Why do you tell me this? She said, looking strictly at him.
“You know why,” he answered boldly and joyfully, meeting her eyes and not leaving her eyes.
Not he, but she was confused.
“It only proves that you don’t have a heart,” she said.
But her eyes told her that she knew that he had a heart, and that was what he was afraid of.
What you said was a mistake, not love.
“You remember that I prohibited you from speaking this word, this foolish word,” said Anna, “but immediately she felt that with one word: prohibited she showed that she recognized certain rights to him, and thus encouraged him to speak about love. “I’ve long wanted to tell you this,” she continued, looking firmly in her eyes and all the dust of her hot face with a rumin, “and now I came intentionally, knowing that I’m going to meet you.
I came to tell you that it should end.
I’ve never been red before anyone, and you make me feel guilty in something.
He looked at her and was impressed with the new spiritual beauty of her face.
What do you want from me? He said simple and seriously.
“I want you to go to Moscow and say goodbye to Kitty,” she said, and the fire wrapped in her eyes.
“You don’t want that,” he said.
He saw that she said what she forced herself to say, but not what she wanted.
“If you love me as you say,” she screamed, “then make me quiet.
His face glowed.
Do you not know that you are for me all life; but peace I do not know, and I can’t give you.
All of myself, love... yes.
I can’t think of you and myself separately.
You and I are one for me.
And I do not see the possibility of peace, neither for myself nor for you.
I see the possibility of despair, misfortune... or I see the possibility of happiness, what happiness.
Is it not possible? He added with one lips, but she heard.
She tended all the strength of her mind to say what she should; but instead she stopped her eyes, full of love, and did not answer anything.
“That’s it!” he thought with enthusiasm. “When I was desperate and when it seemed that there was no end, that’s it!
She loves me.
She is acknowledged in this.”
“Do so for me, never tell me these words, and be good friends,” she said with words, but her eyes said a different thing.
We will not be friends, you know it yourself. Whether we are the happier or the unhappyest of the people, it is in your power.
She wanted to say something, but he broke her.
For I ask one, I ask the right to hope, to suffer as now; but if it is not possible, tell me to disappear, and I will disappear.
You will not see me if my presence is hard for you.
I don’t want to pursue you anywhere.
Just don’t change anything.
Leave everything as it is, he said with a loud voice. Here is your husband.
Indeed, at that moment, Alexey Aleksandrovich was entering the living room with his quiet, uninterrupted walk.
Looking at his wife and Vronsky, he approached the master and, sitting behind a cup of tea, began to speak with his untouchable, always heard voice, in his ordinary joke tone, struggling over someone.
“Your Ramble is in full,” he said, looking at the whole society, grace and mosaic.
But the princess Betty could not tolerate that tone of him, sneering as she called it, and, as a smart master, immediately led him to a serious conversation about the general military duty.
Alexey Alexandrovich immediately took a conversation and began to defend a new decree seriously before the princess Betty, who attacked him.
Vronsky and Anna kept sitting at a small table.
“It becomes unpleasant,” one lady screamed, pointing with her eyes to Karenina, Vronsky and her husband.
What have I told you? The girlfriend of Anna answered.
But not one of these ladies, almost all of those who were in the living room, even Princess Soft and Betty herself, several times looked at those who were away from the general circle, as if it was interfering with them.
Only one Alexei Aleksandrovich has never looked at that side and has not been distracted from the interest of the beginning conversation.
Remembering the unpleasant impression produced on everyone, princess Betty moved the other face to her place to listen to Alexey Alexandrovich and approached Anne.
“I’m always surprised by the clarity and accuracy of your husband’s expressions,” she said. The most transcendent concepts become available to me when he speaks.
- Oh yeah! - said Anna, glowing with a smile of happiness and not understanding a word from what Betty said to her. She went to the big table and took part in the general conversation.
Alexey Alexandrovich, sitting for half an hour, came to his wife and offered her to go home together; but she, not looking at him, replied that she would stay to dinner.
Alexey Alexandrovich broke down and went out.
The old, thick Tatarine, the dog of Karenina, in a glowing leather, hardly held the glowing left gray, whispering at the entrance.
Laki stood and opened the door.
The Switzerland was standing, holding the outside door. Anna Arkadievna with a small fast hand pulled the circle of the gloves out of the shell and, swallowing her head, listened with admiration to what he said, sparking her, Vronsky.
“You didn’t say anything; let’s say, I don’t demand anything,” he said, “but you know that not friendship I need, I may have one happiness in life, that word that you don’t like so much... yes, love...
“Love...” she repeated slowly, in her inner voice, and suddenly, at the same time she cut off round, she added, “I don’t like this word, that it means too much for me, more than you can understand, and she looked at him in the face. to meet!
She gave him the hand and, by a fast, fast step, passed the Swiss and escaped in the car.
His eyes, touching his hands burned him.
He kissed his hands in the place where she touched him, and went home, happy with the awareness that this evening he was approaching his goal more than in the last two months.
Alexey Alexandrovich found nothing special and unpleasant in the fact that his wife sat with Vronsky at a special table and talked about something vividly; but he noticed that to others in the living room it seemed something special and unpleasant, and therefore it seemed unpleasant to him. He decided what to say about that woman.
Returning home, Alexei Aleksandrovich went to his office, as he did it usual, and sat in a chair, opened a book about papis, and read to the time, as he did usual; only suddenly he was throwing his high forehead and scratching his head, as if he was throwing out something.
At the usual hour he stood up and made his night toilet.
Anna Arcadievna was not there yet.
With a book under the mouse he came up, but tonight, instead of the usual thoughts and considerations about official affairs, his thoughts were filled with his wife and something unpleasant that happened to her.
He, contrary to his habit, didn’t lie in bed, but, putting his hands on his back, began to walk back and forward through the rooms.
He couldn’t lie, feeling that he had to think about the new circumstances first.
When Alexey Alexandrovich decided to negotiate with his wife, it seemed to him very easy and simple; but now, when he began to consider this new circumstance, it seemed to him very difficult and difficult.
Alexey Alexandrovich was not jealous.
The jealousy, according to his belief, insults the wife, and to the wife must have confidence.
Why should he have confidence, that is, full confidence that his young wife will always love him, he didn’t ask himself; but he didn’t feel confidence, so he had confidence and said to himself that he should have him.
Now, though his belief that jealousy is a shameful feeling and that it is necessary to have confidence, and was not destroyed, he felt that he stood face to face in front of something unlogic and impeccable, and didn’t know what to do.
Alexey Alexandrovich stood face to face in front of life, in front of the possibility of love in his wife to someone other than him, and this seemed to him very impeccable and incomprehensible, because it was life itself.
All his life Alexey Alexandrovich lived and worked in the spheres of officials, having to do with the reflections of life. And every time he encountered his life, he turned away from it.
Now he felt a feeling like a man who calmly passed over the gap on the bridge and suddenly saw that the bridge was broken down and that there was a blow.
This was—the life itself, the bridge—the artificial life that Alexey Alexandrovich lived.
He was asked for the first time about the possibility for his wife to love someone, and he was scared before it.
He, without diving himself, walked his straight step back and forward through the sound parquet enlightened by a single table lamp, through the cover of a dark living room, in which the light was reflected only on the large, recently made portrait of him, hanging over the sofa, and through her cabin, where two candles burned, illuminating the portraits of her relatives and friends, and the beautiful, long-known untouchings of her writing table.
Through her room he came to the door of the bedroom and turned again.
At every time he walked, and mostly on the parquet of a bright dining, he stopped and said to himself, "Yes, it is necessary to decide and stop, to express his look at it and his decision."And he turned back.
“But what to say? What decision?” He spoke to himself in the living room and found no answer.
“But finally,” he asked himself before turning to the office, “what happened?
Nothing.
She talked to him for a long time.
Well what?
Is there a little woman in the light with whom she can talk?
And then, jealousy means humiliating both herself and her," he said to himself, entering her office; but this reasoning, before having such a weight for him, now nothing weighs and does not mean.
And he turned from the door of the bedroom back to the room; but as soon as he went back into the dark living room, some voice told him that it was not so, and that if others noticed it, it means that there was something.
And he again said to himself in the dining room: "Yes, it is necessary to decide and stop and express his sight..." And again in the dining room before turning he asked himself: how to decide?
Then I asked myself what happened? And he replied, nothing, and remembered that jealousy is a feeling humiliating his wife, but again in the living room he was convinced that something happened.
His thoughts, like the body, made a whole circle without attacking anything new.
He noticed it, lost his forehead and sat in her office.
Here, looking at her table with a Malakhit boulevard on top and the beginning of the note, his thoughts suddenly changed.
He began to think about her, what she thinks and feels.
For the first time he lively imagined her personal life, her thoughts, her desires, and the idea that she could and should have her own special life seemed so terrible to him that he rushed to withdraw her.
It was the hole he was afraid to look at.
Transmitting thought and feeling into another being was a spiritual action, alien to Alexey Alexandrovich.
He considered this mental action a harmful and dangerous fantasy.
And the worst thing, he thought, is that now, when it comes to the end of my business (he thought about the project he was doing now), when I need all the calmness and all the strength of the soul, now that meaningless anxiety is falling on me.
But what to do?
I’m not one of those people who tolerate anxiety and anxiety and have no power to look at them in the face.”
“I have to think, decide and throw away,” he said loudly.
“Questions about her feelings, about what was done and can be done in her soul are not my affairs, it is a matter of her conscience and is subject to religion,” he said to himself, feeling relief in the consciousness that the point of the law that was subject to the circumstance was found.
So, — said Alexey Aleksandrovich, — questions about her feelings and so on — the essence of the questions of her conscience, to which I cannot be concerned.
My duty is clearly defined.
As the head of the family, I am the person obliged to lead it, and therefore partly the person responsible; I must indicate the danger I see, warn and even use power.
I have to tell her.”
And in the head of Alexey Alexandrovich was clear everything he will now say to his wife.
Considering what he will say, he regretted that for home use, so invisibly, he must spend his time and strength of mind; but, despite that, clearly and clearly in his head, as a report, the form and consistency of the coming speech was made up.
I have to say and say the following: first, the explanation of the meaning of public opinion and dignity; second, the religious explanation of the meaning of marriage; third, if necessary, the indication of the possible misfortune for the son; fourth, the indication of its own misfortune.
And, putting his fingers behind his fingers, the hands of the book, Alexey Alexandrovich pulled, and his fingers treated in the joints.
This gesture, a bad habit – the joining of the hands and the scratching of the fingers – always calmed him and brought him to the care that he now so needed.
At the entrance I heard the sound of the car. Alexey Alexandrovich stopped in the middle of the hall.
There were female steps on the stairs.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, ready for his speech, stood, tightening his crossed fingers and waiting for it to tremble anywhere else.
One joint trembled.
Even after the sound of light steps on the stairs he felt her approach, and although he was pleased with his speech, he was afraid of the upcoming explanation.
Anna went down, leaving her head and playing the cysts of the ball.
Her face glowed with a bright brightness; but this brightness was not fun; it resembled the terrible brightness of the fire in the dark night.
When she saw her husband, Anna raised her head and, as if she woke up, smiled.
Are you not in bed?
This is a miracle! — she said, dropped the ball and, without stopping, went further, to the cleaning room. “That’s time, Alexey Alexandrovich,” she spoke outside the door.
Anna, I have to talk to you.
with me? She said surprised, came out of the door and looked at him. What is this?
About what is it? She asked when she sat. Let us negotiate if necessary.
Better to sleep.
Anna said it came to her tongue, and she was surprised by listening to herself, her ability to lie.
How simple, natural were her words and how it seemed that she just wanted to sleep!
She felt dressed in an untouchable bronze of lies. She felt that some invisible force helped her and supported her.
“Anna, I have to warn you,” he said.
to warn? She said. In what?
She looked so simple, so fun that anyone who didn’t know her, as her husband knew, could not notice anything unnatural either in her sounds or in the meaning of her words.
But for him who knew her, who knew that when he was drinking minutes later, she noticed and asked about the reason, for him who knew that all her joy, joy, evil she immediately told him, for him now seeing that she didn’t want to notice his state, that she didn’t want to say a word about herself, meant a lot.
He saw that the depth of her soul, always before opened to him, was closed from him.
Not much, in the tone of her he saw that she was not disturbed by this, but just as she would say to him: yes, closed, and that should be so and will be ahead.
Now he felt like a person who returned home and found his house closed.
“But maybe the key will still be found,” Alexey Aleksandrovich thought.
“I want to warn you in the fact,” he said with a quiet voice, “that by invisibility and easy thought you can give in the light a reason to speak about you.
Your too vibrant conversation today with Count Vronsky (he firmly and calmly spoke this name) turned attention to himself.
He spoke and looked at her laughing, scary now for him with his immeasurable eyes and, speaking, felt all the uselessness and glory of his words.
“You’re always so,” she answered, as if she didn’t understand him at all and from all that he said, intentionally understanding only the latter. It’s unpleasant to you that I’m tired, it’s unpleasant to you that I’m happy.
I was not bored.
Does that offend you?
Alexey Aleksandrovich pulled out and swallowed his hands to tremble them.
“Oh, please don’t tremble, I don’t like it so much,” she said.
Anna, is it you? - said Alexey Aleksandrovich quietly, making an effort over himself and holding the movement of his hands.
- What is that? - she said with such a sincere and comic surprise. What do you need from me?
Alexey Aleksandrovich was silent and lost by his hand his forehead and eyes.
He saw that instead of what he wanted to do, that is, to warn his wife of a mistake in the eyes of the light, he was unwillingly worried about what concerned her conscience, and fought with some wall they imagined.
“I’m going to say this,” he continued cold and quietly, “and I ask you to listen to me.
I acknowledge, as you know, jealousy by an insulting and humiliating feeling, and I will never allow myself to be guided by that feeling; but there are certain laws of mercy that cannot be transgressed without punishment.
Soon I didn’t notice, but, judging by the impression that was made on society, everyone noticed that you did and kept yourself not exactly as you could wish.
“I really don’t understand anything,” said Anna, pressing her shoulders.
“It doesn’t matter, she thought. But it was noticed in society, and that worries him.” “You are unhealthy, Alexey Alexandrovich,” she added, stood up and wanted to go to the door; but he moved forward, as if he wanted to stop her.
His face was unpleasant and dark, as Anna had never seen him.
She stopped and, turning her head back, to the side, began with her fast hand to pick the spikes.
“No, I’m listening to what will happen,” she spoke calmly and laughingly. And I even listen with interest because I would like to understand what it is about.
She spoke and was surprised by the naturally calm, true tone she spoke and the choice of words she used.
“I have no right to enter all the details of your feelings and I consider it in general useless and even harmful,” Alexey Alexandrovich began. When we bury in our soul, we often bury something that would be unnoticed there.
Your feelings are the work of your conscience; but I am obliged to indicate your duties before you, before myself and before God.
Our life is connected, and it is not connected to people, but to God.
Breaking this connection can only be a crime, and the crime of this kind leads to a severe punishment.
I don’t understand anything.
Oh my God, and how hard I want to sleep! She said, quickly pulling her hair with her hand and finding the remaining spikes.
“Anna, for God’s sake, don’t say that,” he said gently. Maybe I’m wrong, but believe that what I’m saying, I’m talking for myself as much as for you.
I am your husband and I love you.
For a moment, her face fell down, and a laughing scratch in her eyes drowned; but the word "I love" again angered her.
She thought, “You love it? Can he love?
If he hadn’t heard that there was love, he would never use that word.
He doesn’t know what love is.”
“Alexey Alexandrovich, right, I don’t understand,” she said. Find out what you find...
Let me agree.
I love you.
But I’m not talking about myself; the main faces here are our son and you yourself.
Very likely, I repeat, to you, my words may seem completely foolish and inappropriate; they are caused by my misconduct.
In that case, I ask you to apologize to me.
But if you feel that there is even the smallest reason, then I ask you to think and if your heart speaks to you, tell me...
Alexey Aleksandrovich himself, not noticing that, said absolutely not what he prepared.
I have nothing to say.
Yes... — suddenly she said, hard to keep a smile, — right, it’s time to sleep.
Alexey Aleksandrovich breathed and, without saying anything more, went to the bedroom.
When she went into the bedroom, he was already lying.
His lips were strictly compressed, and his eyes did not look at her.
Anna slept on her bed and waited every minute for her to talk to her again.
She was afraid that he would talk, and she wanted that.
But he was silent.
She waited long and forgot about it.
She thought about another, she saw him and felt her heart was filled with excitement and crime joy.
Suddenly she heard a smooth and quiet nose swit.
In the first minute, Alexey Alexandrovich seemed to be afraid of his swist and stopped; but, waiting for two breaths, the swist split up with a new, quiet equality.
“Late, late, too late,” she screamed with a smile.
She was stable for a long time with open eyes, whose brightness she seemed to have seen in the darkness.
This evening began a new life for Alexey Alexandrovich and his wife.
Nothing special happened.
Anna, as always, traveled to the light, especially frequently with Princess Betty and met everywhere with Vronsky.
Alexey Aleksandrovich saw it, but he couldn’t do anything.
At all his attempts to call her for an explanation, she opposed him to the untouchable wall of some fun misunderstanding.
From the outside it was the same, but their internal relationships completely changed.
Alexey Alexandrovich, such a strong man in state activity, here felt impotent, Like a bear, humbly leaving his head, he waited for the shoe, which he felt, was lifted over him.
Every time he began to think about it, he felt that he had to try again, that the kindness, the delicacy, the conviction still had hope to save her, to make her remember, and he had to talk to her every day.
But every time he began to talk to her, he felt that the spirit of evil and deception that possessed her had dominated them, and he talked to her at all not in the tone he wanted to speak. He spoke to her unwillingly with his usual tone of excitement over those who would say that.
And in that tone it was not possible to say what she had to say. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The
The fact that for Vronsky almost a whole year was only one desire of his life, which replaced him with all the previous desires; that for Anna was an impossible, terrible and even more disgraceful mass of happiness, that desire was satisfied.
Blind, with a scratching lower neck, he stood above it and prayed to calm himself, without knowing what and what.
And Anna! Anna! — he spoke with a sharp voice. Anna, for the sake of God.
But the louder he spoke, the lower she dropped her once proud, joyful, now shy head, and she all dropped and fell from the sofa on which she was sitting, on the floor, to his feet; she would fall on the cover if he did not hold her.
My God!
“Forgive me!” she spoke, pressing her hands to her chest.
She felt so criminal and guilty that she only had to humble and ask for forgiveness; and now she had no one in her life except him, so she also addressed her prayer for forgiveness to him.
When she looked at him, she felt physically humiliated and couldn’t say anything more.
He felt what the murderer should feel when he saw the body deprived of his life.
This body, deprived of life, was their love, the first period of their love.
There was something terrible and disgusting in the memories of what was paid for this terrible price of shame.
The shame of his spiritual inclination pushed her and communicated to him.
But despite all the horror of the murderer before the body of the murderer, it is necessary to cut into pieces, to hide this body, it is necessary to take advantage of what the murderer acquired by murder.
And with anger, as if with passion, the murderer is thrown on this body, and cuts it, and cuts it; so he also covers her face and shoulders with kisses.
She kept his hand and didn’t walk.
Yes, these kisses are what is bought by this shame.
Yes, and this one hand, which will always be mine, is the hand of my fellow.
She raised her hand and kissed her.
He fell on his knees and wanted to see her face; but she hid him and said nothing.
Finally, as she had made an effort on herself, she got up and pushed him off.
Her face was so beautiful, but it was more unfortunate.
“Everything is over,” she said. I have nothing but you.
Remember that.
I can’t remember what my life is.
A minute of happiness...
- What a happiness! - she said with anger and horror, and the horror was unintentionally told him. For the sake of God, no word, no word more.
She quickly stood up and moved away from him. “No more words,” she repeated, and with a strange expression of cold despair on her face she separated from him.
She felt that at that moment she could not express with words that feeling of shame, joy and horror before this entry into a new life, and she didn’t want to talk about it, to blame that feeling with inaccurate words.
But after and on the other and on the third day, she not only did not find the words she could express all the complexity of these feelings, but also did not find the thoughts she could with herself consider everything that was in her soul.
She said to herself, “No, now I can’t think about it; after that I’ll be more quiet.”
But that tranquillity for thoughts never came; every time she was thinking about what she had done, what would be with her, and what she had to do, she found horror on her, and she removed those thoughts from herself.
“After, after,” she said, “when I will be more quiet.
But in a dream, when she had no power over her thoughts, her position was presented to her in all her immaculate nakedness.
One dream visited her almost every night.
She dreamed that the two were her husband together, that the two divided her loves.
Alexey Alexandrovich was crying, kissing her hands, and said, “How good now! And Alexey Vronsky was there, and he was also her husband.
And she, surprised that before it seemed impossible, explained to them, laughing that it was much easier and that they both are now happy and happy.
But that dream, like a nightmare, pushed her, and she woke up with fear.
Even in the first time when he returned from Moscow, when Levin every time irritated and reddened, remembering the shame of rejection, he said to himself: “I also reddened and reddened, considering all dead, when he received the unit for physics and remained on the second course; he also considered himself dead after breaking my sister’s affairs.
And what?
Now that years have passed, I remember and wonder how it could angry me.
The same will be with this evil.
The time will pass and I will be indifferent to it.”
But three months passed, and he did not become indifferent to it, and he, as in the first days, was painful to remember it.
He could not calm, because he, so long dreamed of a family life, so felt mature for her, was still not married and was further than ever, from marriage.
He painfully felt himself, as everyone around him felt that it was not good for him in his years to be one.
He remembered how he, before leaving Moscow, once told his pet Nicholas, the naive man with whom he loved to talk: "What, Nicholas! I want to marry," and as Nikolai quickly replied, as a matter in which there can be no doubt: "And it's long time, Konstantin Dmitrić."
But marriage is now far away from him than ever.
The place was busy, and when he now imagined to put one of his acquainted girls on that place, he felt that it was absolutely impossible.
Furthermore, the memory of the rejection and the role he played in it suffered him with shame.
No matter how much he said to himself that he was nothing guilty here, this memory, along with other same kind of shameful memories, made him irritate and red.
In his past, as with every man, they were conscious of evil acts, for which the conscience would have to torture him; but the memory of evil acts did not torture him as much as these unnecessary but shameful memories.
The wounds were never delayed.
And along with these memories stood now the rejection and the sad situation in which he had to present himself to others tonight.
Time and work did their own.
The heavy memories were more and more overwhelmed to him by the invisible but significant events of rural life.
Every week he fewerly recalled Kitty.
He was looking forward to the news that she had already gone out or was getting married on a few days, hoping that such a news, like a tooth removal, would completely heal him.
Meanwhile, the spring has come, beautiful, friendly, without expectations and fraud of the spring, one of those rare spring that plants, animals and people enjoy together.
This beautiful spring even more excited Levin and endorsed him in his intention to give up everything before, in order to firmly and independently organize his lonely life.
Although many of the plans with which he returned to the village were not fulfilled, but most importantly, the purity of life was observed by him. He did not experience the shame that usually suffered him after the fall, and he could boldly look in the eyes of the people.
In February, he received a letter from Maria Nikolaevna that his brother's health becomes worse, but he doesn't want to be treated, and as a result of this letter, Levin traveled to Moscow to his brother and managed to convince him to consult with a doctor and go to water abroad.
He so well managed to convince his brother and give him loans for the trip, without irritating him that in this regard he was satisfied with himself.
In addition to the farming that demanded special attention in the spring, in addition to reading, Levin began this winter a work on the farming, the plan of which was that the character of the worker in the farming should be accepted as absolute as the climate and soil, and that, therefore, all the statements of the science of the farming should be derived not from the same data of the soil and the climate, but from the data of the soil, the climate and the known unchanged nature of the worker.
Thus, despite loneliness or as a result of loneliness, his life was extremely filled, and only suddenly he experienced the unsatisfied desire to communicate his thoughts to someone other than Agaphya Mikhailovna, although with her he had often been discussing physics, the theory of economics and in particular philosophy; philosophy was the favorite subject of Agaphya Mikhailovna.
The spring was not open for a long time.
The last few weeks of the post was clear, cold weather.
The day was on the sun, and the night was up to seven degrees; the night was such that the trains were driving without a road. Easter was on snow.
Then suddenly, on the second day of the Holy, the warm wind was overcome, and for three days and three nights there was a stormy and warm rain.
On Thursday the wind was silent, and a thick gray cloud overcome, as if hiding the secrets of the changes that occurred in nature.
In the clouds the waters swallowed, the glaciers stumbled and moved, the turmoil flows moved faster, and on the very Red Mountains, from the evening, the cloud broke out, the turmoil fled with the bars, cleared, and the true spring opened.
In the morning, the bright sun rising quickly eaten a thin glace that flooded the water, and all the warm air frosted from the flooding evaporations of the living earth.
The old and outgoing young grass greenered, the kidneys of the calina, the myrdle and the leak of the alcoholic berry swallowed, and the exhibited flying bees drowned on the gold-lighted lotion.
The invisible shepherds flooded over the barhat of greens and the flooded shepherds, the chips were crying over the flooded storm, unwashed with water, and the bullets, and the high flooded with the spring gout of the juravali and the gusi.
The bullshit, only the cattle that had not yet passed through the places, played curved eggs around losing the wave of blinking mothers, fled the fast-foot boys on the dry, with the footprints of the boss's footprints, scratched on the grid the funny voices of the grandmother with the hills, and stumbled on the courts the topors of the men, putting seeds and bears.
The real spring has come.
Levin worn big shoes, and for the first time it was not a shrub, but a fake, and went through the farm, walking through the roofs, cutting their eyes with their brightness on the sun, and walking on the ice, then into the dirt.
Spring is the time of plans and assumptions. And when he came out to the courtyard, Levin, like a spring tree, not yet knowing where and how his young frogs and branches, locked in the melted kidneys, did not know well, for which enterprises in his favourite farming he would accept now, but he felt that he was full of plans and assumptions of the best.
He went to the pet first.
The cows were released to the cottage and, glowing overflowing with a smooth hair, heated on the sun, washed, asking in the field.
Admired by his acquaintances to the smallest details of the cows, Levin ordered to expel them into the field, and to throw out the bodies.
The pastor fled fun to gather in the field.
The grandchildren, picking the puppies, the bosses, still white, not burned by the legs swallowing on the dirt, with the sick walked for the washing, scattered by the spring joy of the teltas, hunting them to the courtyard.
Being admired of the fruit of this year, which was unusually good,—the early bodies were with a male cow, the daughter of Pavin, three months old, was a growth from the year-old—Levin commanded to bring them out the curtain and ask the seed for the roofs.
But it turned out that on the unused winter wash made from autumn grids were broken.
He sent for a plateau, which alongside had to work a plateau. But it turned out that the thunder made the bears, which had to be destroyed from the oil.
It was very annoying to Levi.
It was annoying that this eternal harshness of the economy was repeated, against which he fought with all his forces for so many years.
The roofs, as he learned, unnecessary in the winter, were transferred to the working cabin and there the roofs, as they were made easily, for the bodies.
Furthermore, it turned out that the bears and all the agricultural tools, which were ordered to be examined and refined in the winter and for which three folders were intentionally taken, were not refined, and the bears were still refined when it was necessary to go to the coat.
Levin sent the speaker, but immediately went to find him.
The narrative, glowing the same as all that day, walked with a rubbish rubbish, broken in his hands a rubbish rubbish.
Why is it not on the mole?
I wanted to report yesterday: the bears need to be cleaned.
Here is the smell.
In the winter, what?
What do you like about the plate?
Where are the castles from the courtyard?
I ordered to go down to the place.
What to say to this people! - said the speaker, with his hand.
- Not with this people, but with this speaker! - said Levin, exploding. Why do I keep you! He screamed.
But remembering that you won’t help, you stopped half the speech and just breathed. Is it possible to sow? He asked in silence.
It will be possible for Turkey tomorrow or after tomorrow.
And the clerk?
- He sent Vasily with Mishka, dissipating.
I don’t know if it’s going to go: the ball.
How many ten?
for six.
Why not all? He screamed Levin.
That the clerk was seated only for six, not for twenty, it was even more annoying.
The seed of the clerk, both in theory and in his own experience, was only good when it was made as soon as possible, almost on the snow. Levi was never able to do that.
There is no people.
What do you order this people to do?
Three did not come.
Here is the seed.
Well, you would give up the salmon.
And I gave it down.
Where is the people?
- Five compounds are made (this means a compound) Four oats are swallowed; as if not touched, Constantine Dmitrych.
Levin knew very well that "whatever touched" meant that the seed of the English sheep was already destroyed - again they didn't do what he ordered.
“Yes, I’ve spoken another post, tubes! He screamed.
Don’t worry, we’ll do everything in time.
Levin angryly pulled his hand, went to the ambars to look at the sheep and returned to the cabin.
The sheep has not yet broken. But the workers swallowed him with the balls, while it was possible to throw him down directly into the lower bar, and, ordering this and removing from there two workers for the seed of the clergy, Levin calmed himself from the seed of the speaker.
The day was so good that I could not be angry.
-Igat! - he screamed the dog, who was washing the wheel with his gloves. Sitting me...
Who will you order?
At least a column.
While the horse was sitting, Levin again suspected the reversed narrative to reconcile with him, and began to tell him about the upcoming spring work and business plans.
The swallowing starts earlier so that until the early swallowing everything ends. And the plugs smell without a break off the far field, so that it can be held with a black pair.
The pockets remove not everything off, but the workers.
The speaker listened carefully and apparently made an effort to approve the master’s assumptions; but he was still so familiar with Levin and always annoying his hopeless and desperate appearance.
This species said: It’s all good, as God will give.
Nothing worried Levin as this tone. But this tone was common to all the speakers, no matter how many of them he had.
Everyone had the same attitude to his assumptions, and therefore he was no longer angry, but angry and felt even more excited to fight this kind of natural force, which he could not otherwise call “what God will give” and which was constantly opposed to him.
“How we succeed, Konstantin Dmitrych,” said the speaker.
Why do you fail?
Workers need to hire another fifteen people.
They don’t come. There were seventy rubles for the summer.
Levin was silent.
This force was opposed again.
He knew that no matter how much they tried, they could not hire more than forty, thirty-seven, thirty-eight workers for the real price; forty were employed, and no more.
But he couldn’t be fighting.
- Send to Surah, to Chefer, if they don't come.
Must be searched.
“To send the mail,” said Vasily Fedorovich. Here are the weak stone horses.
We buy.
Yes, I know, - he added laughing, - you are getting less and worse; but I will not give you this year as I do.
I will all be alone.
You and it seem to sleep little.
We are happy like the owner in the eyes.
- So behind the Berez Valley are scattered the clerk?
I’m going to go to see, he said, sitting on a small bull Colpick undergoed by a dog.
“Don’t walk through the lunch, Konstantin Dmitrych,” the dog cried.
So the forest.
And by the boyking of the good standing horse, throwing over the lies and asking for reason, Levin walked through the dirt of the courtyard to the gate and to the field.
If Levin was fun in the livestock and livestock courts, he became even more fun in the field.
Measuredly climbing to the outskirts of a good con, drinking the warm and fresh smell of snow and air while passing through the forest over the remaining somewhere dust, absorbing the snow with broken traces, he rejoiced on each of his trees with his mouth on the corner and with the swallowed kidneys.
When he went out for the forest, in front of him on an enormous space scattered a flat barhated coat of green, without a single pear and moisture, only somewhere in the slopes stumbled by the remains of stumbling snow.
He was not angry by the sight of a peasant horse and a struggle that stumbled his green (he told the man he met), nor by the laughing and stupid answer of the man Ipatus, whom he met and asked, "What, Ipatus, will soon sow?" “We have to breathe first, Konstantin Dmitrić,” Ipat replied.
The further he was driving, the more fun he became, and the business plans of one another were better for him: to surround all the fields with lotions on the midnight lines so that the snow did not fall under them; to cut into six fields of wheat and three reserve with grass, to build a livestock yard on the far end of the field and to break the grass, and to build for fertilization carrier gardens for the livestock.
And then three hundred dozen wheat, and a hundred potatoes, and a hundred fifty clergy, and no one exhausted dozen.
With such dreams, carefully turning the horse between so that he didn’t put his green, he approached the workers, dissipating the clerk.
The grain with seeds stood not on the edge, but on the seed, and the wheat was cut out by wheels and mined by a horse.
Both workers sat on the border, probably smoking a common tube.
The land in the cage with which the seeds were mixed was not mixed, but was followed or melted by shells.
After seeing the owner, Vasily the worker went to the telegram, and Mishka began to cut off.
It was not good, but Levin rarely was angry on the workers.
When Vassilius came, Levin commanded him to take the horse abroad.
“Nothing, strike, it will take a long time,” Vassilius replied.
“Please don’t think,” said Levin, “but do what they say.
“I hear,” Vassilius answered and took the horse on his head. “And I sat, Konstantin Dmitrych,” he said, searching for, “the first sort.
Just walk with passion!
You have a pudding on your leg.
Why is the earth untouched? He said Levin.
“Yes, we’re going away,” said Vasily, collecting seeds and planting the land in his hands.
Vasilius was not guilty that he was saturated with untouched land, but it was still boring.
Having repeatedly tried the means known to him to empty his annoyance and all that seem bad to make good again, Levin and now used this means.
He looked as Mishka walked, turning the enormous roofs of the land, falling on each leg, tears from the horse, took the sevalka from Vasily and went to cut off.
Where did you stop?
Vasilius pointed the mark with his foot, and Levin went, as he knew, to sow the earth with seeds.
It was hard to walk, as it was on the shore, and Levin, passing through the shore, seized and, stopped, gave the sevalka.
“Well, Barin, in the summer I’m not screaming for this leech,” said Vasily.
And what? - Levin said fun, feeling the reality of the used means.
Look at the summer.
will differ.
You see where I was sitting last spring. How to dissolve!
After all, I, Konstantin Dmitrych, seem to be like my father.
I don’t like doing bad things and I don’t tell others.
The owner is good, and we are good.
As you look out, - said Vassilius, indicating the field, - the heart is rejoiced.
A good spring, Vassilius.
This is the spring, the old people will not remember.
I was here at home, there we had the old man also seed the wheat three eight.
He says that you can’t distinguish from roses.
Have you planted wheat for a long time?
You have taught the latter year; you have given me two measures.
Three of them were sold, and three of them were seated.
“Well, look, stretch some,” said Levin, going to the horse, “and look at the Mishka.” And the good will be the coming, for you 50 copies for ten.
Thank you humbly.
We seem to be so happy with you.
Levin sat on a horse and went to the field where there was the last year's clerk, and to the one that was prepared under the grain.
The arrival of the clerk on the gnive was wonderful.
He has survived and solidly greenered due to the broken past year’s grain staples.
The horse wrapped on the staircase, and each of her legs swallowed out of the semi-covered ground.
On the swimming pool and it was not possible to walk: only there and held where the ice was, and in the hidden bridges the foot was hanged above the staircase.
The smell was excellent; in two days you will be able to brown and sow.
Everything was great, everything was fun.
Back, Levin went through the waters, hoping that the water was sold. And indeed, he moved and broke out two flows.
“There must be valtsneps,” he thought, and just at the turn to the house he met a forest carrier, who confirmed his assumption of valtsneps.
Levin went to the house in order to get lunch and prepare the gun for the evening.
Coming home in the most joyful location of the spirit, Levin heard a bell from the main entrance to the house.
“Yes, it’s with the railroad,” he thought, “it’s the time of the Moscow train...
Who would it be?
What if it is the brother Nicholas?
He said, “Maybe I’ll go to the water, or maybe I’ll come to you.” He was frightened and unpleasant at the first minute that the presence of his brother Nicholas would annoy his happy spring location.
But he was ashamed for that feeling, and immediately he was as if he had revealed his soul embraces and with humiliated joy expected and wished now with all his soul that he would be a brother.
He touched the horse, and when he went out for the Acacia, he saw the Omsk trio coming from the railway station and the master in the shube.
He was not a brother.
“Oh, if someone was a pleasant person, with whom to talk,” he thought.
- A! - Levin cried with joy, lifting both hands up. This is a happy guest!
Oh, how I'm glad to you! - he screamed, knowing Stepan Arkadic.
“I know exactly if she’s gone, or when she’s married,” he thought.
And in that beautiful spring day he felt that remembering her didn’t hurt him at all.
- What, didn't you wait? - said Stephan Arkadić, coming out of the sand, with a rubber of dirt on the carpet, on the cloth and on the brush, but glowing with joy and health. “He came to see you once,” he said, hugging and kissing him, “to stand two, and the forest in Ergushov to sell three.”
– It is beautiful! What is the spring?
How did you get to the sand?
- In the television even worse, Konstantin Dmitrić, - replied a well-known shelter.
“Well, I’m very, very happy with you,” said Levin, truly smiling with a children’s happy smile.
Levin spent his guest in the room for the guests, where the things of Stephan Arkadić were brought: a bag, a gun in a bag, a bag for cigarettes, and, leaving him to wash and dress up, he himself until he went to the countryside to tell about the sheep and the sheep.
Agaphia Mikhailovna, always very concerned with the honor of the house, met him in the first questions about lunch.
“Do what you want, just as soon as possible,” he said and went to the speaker.
When he returned, Stephan Arkadić, washed, scratched and glowing with a smile, came out of his door, and they went up together.
How glad I got to you!
Now I will understand what the mysteries you are doing here are.
No, right, I’m jealous of you.
What a house, what a glory! “Light, fun,” said Stepan Arkadić, forgetting that there is not always spring and clear days like today. What a beauty is your grandmother!
It would be more desirable to have a nice cave in a cave; but with your monastery and a rigorous style, it’s very good.
Stephan Arkadić told a lot of interesting news and interesting news for Levin that his brother Sergey Ivanovich had gathered to him this summer in the village.
None of the words Stepan Arkadić did not say about Kiti and Sherbatsky at all; he only gave a gift to his wife.
Levin was grateful for his delicacy and was very pleased with the guest.
As always, during his isolation, he had a gap of thoughts and feelings that he could not transmit to the others, and now he flows into Stephan Arkadić and the poetic joy of the spring, and the failures and plans of the economy, and the thoughts and comments about the books he read, and in particular the idea of his work, the basis of which, although he himself did not notice this, was the criticism of all the old works of the economy.
Stephan Arkadić, always gentle, understanding everything with the clue, was gentle to this arrival, and Levin noticed in it another new, favourable character of respect and as if gentle to himself.
The efforts of Agaphya Mikhailovna and the cook to make the lunch especially good, had only the consequence that the two hungry friends, sitting to the snack, ate bread with oil, plate and salt fungi, and also that Levin ordered to serve a soup without cakes, which the cook wanted to especially surprise the guests.
But Stephan Arkadić, even though he was accustomed to other meals, found everything excellent: both the grass, and the bread, and the oil, and especially the plate, and the fungi, and the grapes, and the chicken under the white sauce, and the white Crimean wine—all was great and wonderful.
“Excellent, great,” he said, smoking thick papyrus after the hot. I came to you right from the vessel after noise and trembling on the quiet shore.
So you say that the element of the worker must be studied and guided in the choice of the approaches of the economy.
I am profan in this; but I think the theory and application of it will have an influence on the worker.
I’m not talking about political economics, I’m talking about science of economics.
It must be like natural sciences and observe the data of phenomena and the worker with his economic, ethnographic...
At that time, Agaphya Mikhailovna entered with a cooking.
“Well, Agaphya Mikhailovna,” said Stephan Arkadić, kissing the ends of his dirty fingers, “what a plate you have, what a grass!
Isn’t it time, Cottage? He added it.
Levin looked in the window to the sun descending behind the naked machoes of the forest.
“That’s time,” he said. – Cuzma, put the line! – and ran down.
Stephan Arkadić, coming down, himself carefully removed the shell from the laked box and, opening it, began to collect his expensive, new shell gun.
Kuzma, who had already heard a great gift of vodka, did not leave Stephan Arkadić and gave him the socks and shoes that Stephan Arkadić was willing to give him to do.
Tell me, Kosta, if the Rybinin buyer comes, I told him to come today, to take and wait.
Are you selling forests to Rebecca?
Do you know him?
How well, I know.
I had a deal with him “positive and definitive.”
Stephan Arkadic laughed.
"Finally and positively" were the buyer's favourite words.
He speaks surprisingly funny.
She knew where the master was going! he added, throwing with the hand of Lask, which, wiping up, wiped around Levin and throwed his hand, his shoes and his weapons.
The long was at the wings when they came out.
I told you to bet, though not far; then we will walk?
“No, it’s better to go,” Stepan Arkadić said, “I’m going to go longer.
He sat down, turned his feet with a tiger flame and smoked a cigarette. How do you not smoke!
Cigarette is not a pleasure, but a sign of pleasure.
This is life!
How good!
This is how I would like to live!
Who interferes with you? - Smiling, said Levin.
No, you are a happy man.
Everything you love, you have.
You love horses - you eat, dogs - you eat, hunting - you eat, farm - you eat.
“Maybe because I’m happy with what I have, and I don’t complain about what I don’t have,” said Levin, remembering Kitty.
Stephan Arkadic understood, looked at him, but said nothing.
Levin was grateful to Oblonsky for the fact that he, with his everlasting tact, noticed that Levin was afraid to talk about the Scherbatsky, did not say anything about them; but now Levin had already wanted to know what suffered him so much, but he did not dare to speak.
How are your affairs? - said Levin, thinking about how bad it is for him to think only of himself.
The eyes of Stepan Arkadić glorified.
“You don’t acknowledge that it is possible to love the cracks when there’s a cracks, you think it’s a crime; and I don’t acknowledge life without love,” he said, understanding the question of Levin. What to do, I am so created.
And right, so little is done this to someone evil, and so much pleasure to yourself...
What, or something new? He asked Levin.
There is, brother!
Here you see, you know the type of Osian women... the women you see in dreams...
Here are these women, and these women are terrible.
A woman, you see, is such a subject that no matter how much you study it, everything will be completely new.
So it is better not to study.
No is.
Some mathematics said that enjoyment is not in the discovery of the truth, but in the search for it.
Levin listened silently, and despite all the efforts he had done on himself, he could not move into the soul of his friend and understand his feelings and the beauty of the study of such women.
The place of drawing was near the speech in a small adulter.
Arriving to the forest, Levin was tears and passed Oblonsky to the corner of the mosquito and the ball of the field, which had already been released from the snow.
He himself returned to the other edge to the double coast and, laying the weapon to the development of the dry lower coat, pulled the coat, swallowed and tried the freedom of movement of the hands.
The old, sitting Laska, following them, sat cautiously against him and warned his ears.
The sun was descending over a large forest; and in the light of the sun, the marks, dispersed over the shell, clearly drawn with their hanging branches with swollen, ready to break with the kidneys.
From the frequent forest, where there was still snow, it was slightly heard of the water flowing out of the narrow roofs.
The little birds swallowed and sometimes flown from a tree to a tree.
In the midst of the perfect silence, there were hears of last year’s leaves that walked from the thinning of the earth and from the growth of herbs.
“How is!
You can hear and see how the grass grows!” -Levin said to himself, noticing the moving grape color of a wet axon leaf under the needle of a young grass.
He stood, listened, and looked down, then on the moist moist land, then on the listening Lask, then on the moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist moist.
Yastreb, hurrying with his wings, fled high over the far forest; the other just fled in the same direction and escaped.
The birds were increasingly loud and worried.
Nearby, the phyllin stumbled, and Laska, swallowing, passed carefully a few steps and, tending to the side of the head, began to listen.
From the river I heard a cowboy.
She twice screamed with an ordinary scream, and then screamed, shaken and confused.
What is! Stephan Arkadić said, coming out of the cage.
“Yes, I hear,” Levin replied, disappointed by breaking the silence of the forest with his unpleasant voice. Now soon.
The figure of Stephan Arkadić came back to the cage, and Levin only saw a bright fire of the spice, then replaced with red carbon papyrus and blue smoke.
The Chick! The Chick! The chickens made by Stepan Arkadić.
What is it crying? - asked Oblonsky, paying attention to Levin on a long run, as if it was a thin voice, a joke, a joke.
Do you not know that?
It is a shipwreck.
He will speak!
Hear it flies! Levin almost screamed, raising the chickens.
It was heard a distant, thin whistle and, just in that ordinary tact, so familiar to the hunter, in two seconds - the second, the third, and behind the third whistle, it was already heard a horcano.
Levin threw his eyes to the right, to the left, and there was a flying bird in front of him, on the mute-blue sky, over the smooth frogs of the axis.
She was flying straight on him: the close sounds of the horcany, similar to the equal surrender of a thick tissue, spread over the ear; the long nose and neck of the bird were already seen, and at the moment that Levin was laying down, a red light blinked out of the cave where Oblonsky was standing; the bird, like a shell, fell down and washed up again. Again the lightning glowed, and a blow was heard; and, trembling with the wings, as if it sought to stand in the air, the bird stopped, stood instantly, and hardly climbed over the golden ground.
Is it a failure? Stepan Arkadić was screaming, who was not seen because of the smoke.
Here is he! “Levin said, pointing to Lashka, who, lifting one ear and heightening high by the end of the smoke tail, with a quiet step, as if he wanted to extend the pleasure and as if he smiled, brought the murdered bird to the master. “Well, I’m glad you’ve succeeded,” said Levin, while already having a sense of jealousy that he couldn’t kill this Waldschneep.
“A square gap from the right stone,” Stepan Arkadić replied, charging the gun. Sh... it flies.
Indeed, they heard intriguing, rapidly following each other's screams.
Two walts, playing and pursue each other and only switches, not starks, attacked the heads of the hunters.
Four shots were scattered, and, like the shots, the valtshnyps gave a quick turn and disappeared from sight. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The
The stress was beautiful.
Stephan Arkadić killed two more pieces and Levin two, one of which he did not find.
It became dark.
The bright silver Venus, low in the west, has already glowed through the shores with its gentle glow, and high in the east, the dark Arcture has already flowed through its red flames.
Over his head, Levin caught and lost the stars of the Bear.
The Waldschneps have already stopped flying; but Levin has decided to wait until the shell of the Venus that he sees below passes above him and the stars of the Bear will be clear everywhere.
Venus passed above the slope, the Bear's wheel with his breath was already visible in the dark blue sky, but he was still waiting.
Is it not time? - said Stephan Arkadić.
It was quiet in the forest, and no bird walked.
“We’re still there,” Levin replied.
as you want.
They stood 15 steps from each other.
Stay is! “Levin suddenly said, ‘What will you not tell me if your girlfriend is married or when she is married?’
Levin felt so firm and quiet that no response he thought could excite him. But he didn’t expect what Stefan Arkadić replied.
- And she didn't think and doesn't think to get married, and she's very sick, and doctors sent her abroad.
Fear for her life.
What are you! He screamed Levin. Is he very sick?
What about her?
How she...
As they said this, Lashka, warning his ears, looked up to heaven and in corrosion on them.
“There’s time to talk,” she thought. And he flies...
This is he, so is it.
“They’re...” thought Grace.
But at this very moment, they both suddenly heard a penetrating sound that seemed to stretched them to their ears, and they both suddenly captured the weapons, and two flashes shining, and two strikes divided in the same moment.
The high-flying Waldschneep immediately placed the wings and fell into a piece, swallowing thin escapes.
This is great!
Joint!-- Levin screamed and fled with Laska in a cup to find the Waldschneep.
“Oh yeah, what was it unpleasant? He remembered. The sick Kitty.
What to do, it’s very sorry,” he thought.
I found it! “This is the wise man,” he said, taking a warm bird out of Laski’s mouth and placing it in a almost full jacket. Find it, Steve! He screamed.
Returning home, Levin asked for all the details about Kitty’s illness and the Scherbatsky’s plans, and although he would be conscious to admit that, what he learned was pleasant to him.
It was pleasant because there was still hope, and even more pleasant because it was painful to her, the one that made him so painful.
But when Stephan Arkadić began to talk about the causes of Kitty's disease and mentioned the name of Vronsky, Levin broke him:
I have no right to know family details, in truth, and no interest.
Stephan Arkadić smiled slightly, capturing the instant and so famous change in the face of Levin, which became as dark as he was joyful a minute ago.
Have you gotten out of the forest with the ribbon? He asked Levin.
Yes I ended.
The price is great, thirty eight thousand. Eight years ahead and the rest for six years.
I have been driving with it for a long time.
No one gave it anymore.
“This means that you gave the forest with a gift,” Levi said darkly.
So why a gift? - With a kind smile, Stepan Arkadić said, knowing that now everything will be bad for Levin.
“Because the forest costs at least five hundred rubles for ten,” Levin replied.
These are my rural owners. Stephan Arkadic was laughing. This is your tone of contempt to our city brother.
As we do, we will always do the best.
I believe that I’ve counted everything,” he said, “and the forest is sold very profitably, so I’m afraid that it doesn’t even give up.
After all, this is not an offensive forest, — said Stephan Arkadić, wishing with the word of offensive to convince Levin about the injustice of his doubts — but the wooden more.
And it will not be more than thirty seated for ten, and he gave me two hundred rubles.
Levin smiled negligently.
“I know, — he thought, — this way not one of him, but all the city inhabitants, who, having visited the village twice every ten years and noticed two or three words of the village, use them on the other hand and on the other hand, firmly confident that they already all know.
He will be treated thirty.
He speaks words, but he does not understand anything.”
“I will not teach you what you are writing there in the presence,” he said, “and if necessary, I will ask you. And you are so sure that you understand all this literature about the forest.
She is difficult.
Did you count the trees?
How to count the trees? - laughing, Stepan Arkadić said, all wanting to get the friend out of his bad position of spirit. The composition of the sand, the rays of the planets, although the mind could be high.
Well, and the mind of the high Rabbin can.
And no buyer will buy without counting if he is not given a gift like you.
I know your forest.
I am there every year on hunting, and your forest costs five hundred rubles of pure money, and it gave you two hundred in expenditure.
So you gave him a thousand thirty.
“Well, get excited,” said Stepan Arkadić, “why did no one give it?
Because he had a strike with the merchants; he gave a rejection.
I had affairs with them all, I know them.
They are not merchants, but merchants.
He will not go to the business where he has ten or fifteen percent, and he is waiting to buy for twenty copies of rubles.
Well it is full!
You are not in the spirit.
— No, — said Levin darkly when they came into the house.
The wing had already stood a thick iron-covered and skin-covered wing with a thick wing-covered horse.
In the chair was sitting a blurred blood and a blurred speaker who served Rjabinin as a dog.
Rabiin himself was already in the house and met his friends in front.
Rjabinin was a high, artistic man of the middle ages, with a sharp and bright outstanding submarine and broken butter eyes.
He was dressed in a long-polled blue shirt with puzzles below the tail and in high, melted on the shrubs and straight on the ends of the shoes, above which were worn big calches.
He roundly tightened his face and, smelling the turtle, which still kept very well, with a smile greeted the entering, stretching Stephan Arkadic's hand as if he wanted to catch something.
“Behold, you have come,” said Stephan Arkadić, giving him the hand. – It is beautiful.
I have not dared to listen to the commandments of your glowing, though the way is too bad.
Positively all the way was walking, but appeared in time.
Konstantin Dmitrych, my honor, - he turned to Levin, trying to catch his hand.
But Levin, turning down, looked that he didn’t notice his hands, and took out the valtsneeps. Have you been allowed to hunt?
What are these birds? — added Ryabinine, negligently looking at the Waldschnepps, — taste, that is, they have. - And he unacceptably climbed his head, as much as he doubted that this sheep would be expensive.
Do you want to go to the office? - It is dark, said Levin in French to Stepan Arkadic. Go to the office, you’ll talk there.
“It’s very possible, wherever you are,” said Rabinin with negligent dignity, as if he wanted to make it feel that for others there may be difficulties, how and with whom to deal, but for him there can never and in nothing be difficulties.
By entering the cabinet, Rjabinin looked at the habit, as if he was looking for the image, but when he found it, he did not cross.
He looked at the closets and the roofs with books, and with the same doubt as to the Waldschnepps, he had a negligent smile and unacceptably climbed his head, no longer allowing that this sheep could be expensive.
Have you brought the money? I asked Oblonsky. and sit.
We do not stand for money.
I came to see, to negotiate.
What to negotiate?
You are sitting.
“It’s possible,” said Rjabinin, sitting in the most painful way for himself, clocking on the back of the chair. You have to go down, Prince.
There will be sin.
And the money is finally ready, up to one coin.
There is no stop for money.
Levin, who had placed the gun in the closet, had already gone out of the door, but when he heard the buyer’s words, he stopped.
“The forest has been taken,” he said. He came to me late, and then I would set the price.
Rabiin stood up and silently, with a smile, looked down and up to Levin.
“It’s a bad thing, Konstantin Dmitrych,” he said with a smile, addressing Stephan Arkadic, “you’ll definitely not buy anything.
He handed wheat and gave good money.
Why do I give you my gift?
I did not find and steal on earth.
Sorry, right now it is impossible to steal.
Everything is ultimately to the present time a sound judgment, all is noble today; not what to steal.
We talked for honor.
It is expensive for the forest, you don’t know the calculations.
Please give up a little.
Do you have an end or not?
If it’s finished, there’s nothing to trade, and if it’s not finished, — said Levin, — I’m buying the forest.
The smile suddenly disappeared from Rebecca’s face. A strange, cheerful and harsh expression was established on it.
He stretched the shirt with his fast fingers, opened the shirt, the garments of the wardrobe and the clock chain, and quickly got a thick old paper.
“Sorry, my forest,” he spoke, quickly crossed and stretched his hand. Take the money, my forest.
This is how Rybinin trades, not the money to count, he spoke, turning up and scratching the paper.
“I’t rush in your place,” said Levin.
“Please,” said Oblonsky with surprise, “because I gave the word.
Levin came out of the room, knocking at the door.
Rabiin, looking at the door, with a smile climbed his head.
All youth, ultimately childhood is one.
After all, I buy, believe the honour, so, it means, for the glory of one, that this is Ryabin, not someone else from Oblonsky rose bought.
God will find the calculations.
Believe in God.
I apologize. Condition to write...
After an hour, the buyer, carefully smelling his shirt and stretching the shorts of the shirt, with the condition in the pocket sat in his tightly sealed suitcase and went home.
Oh these gentlemen! He told the speaker, one thing.
- This is what it is, - replied the speaker, sending him the fire and stretching the skin shell. What about the shopping, Mikhail Ignatic?
Well, well...
Stephan Arkadić with the dissolved pocket of the series, which a buyer gave him three months ahead, entered up.
The deal with the forest was over, the money in the pocket, the attraction was beautiful, and Stephan Arkadić was in the most joyful position of the spirit, and therefore he wanted to dissolve the bad mood found on Levin.
He wanted to finish the day after dinner as pleasant as he was starting.
In fact, Levin was not in spirit and, despite all his desire to be kind and kind with his dear guest, he couldn’t overcome himself.
Hmel of the news that Kitty was not married, gradually began to investigate him.
Kitty is not married and sick, sick from love for the man who has neglected her.
This insult was as if it fell on him.
Wronsky neglected her, and she neglected them, Levin.
Therefore, Vronsky had the right to neglect Levin and therefore was his enemy.
But this was not what Levin thought about.
He disturbedly felt that there was something offensive to him, and now he was angry not on what disturbed him, but on everything he imagined.
The stupid sale of the forest, the deception that Oblonsky came to and which was committed with him in the house, irritated him.
Well it ended? - He said, meeting up Stephan Arkadić. Do you want to dinner?
Yes, I will not give up.
What appetite I have in the village, miracle!
Why did you not offer Rebecca to eat?
A line with him!
How do you deal with him! He said Oblonsky. You did not give his hands.
Why not give him the hands?
Because I don’t put my hands on the lakes, but the lakes are hundred times better.
What a retrograde you are!
The fusion of agreements? He said Oblonsky.
Who likes to join - to health, and I dislike it.
You, I see, are strongly retrograde.
Right, I never thought who I was.
I am Constantine Levin, nothing more.
- And Konstantin Levin, who is very not in spirit, - smiling, said Stepan Arkadić.
I am not in the spirit, and you know why?
Sorry for your stupid sale.
Stephan Arkadić humbled kindly, like a man who is innocently harassed and intimidated.
Well it is full! He said. When was it that someone sold something and didn’t say to him right now after the sale, “It’s much more expensive?”
When they sell, no one gives.
No, I see, you have a tooth against this unhappy Rabbin.
Maybe, and there is.
And you know why?
You’ll say again that I’m retrograde, or another terrible word, but it’s still annoying and offensive for me to see from all sides this disappearance of nobleship to which I belong, and, despite the fusion of terms, it’s very pleased that I belong.
And fasting is not due to luxury - it would be nothing; living in barsky - it is a noble thing, it is only nobles know.
Now the men around us buy land, I don’t hurt.
Barin does nothing, the man works and pulls out a vacant man.
So should be. I am very pleased with the man.
But I’m angry to look at this disappearance in some way, I don’t know how to call it, innocence.
Here a Polish tenant bought a wonderful property for half a price from a bar, who lives in Nice.
Here, the buyer is rented for a ruble of a tenth land, which costs ten rubles.
Here you gave this pluto thirty thousand without any reason.
So what? counting every tree.
It must be counted.
But you didn’t count, and Rebecca counted.
Rabin’s children will have funds for life and education, and yours probably won’t have it!
Sorry, but there’s something miserable in that.
We have our own jobs, they have their own, and they need bars.
The work has been done, and the end.
Here is my eye, my favourite egg.
And Agaphya Mikhailovna will give us this herb of wonderful...
Stephan Arkadić sat to the table and started joking with Agatha Mikhailovna, insisting her that such a lunch and dinner he has long not eaten.
“Here, even if you will praise,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna, “and Constantin Dmitrić, whatever you give him, even if the bread of the cork,” he ate and went.
Whatever Levin tried to overcome himself, he was dark and silent.
He had to ask a question to Stephan Arkadić, but he couldn’t resolve and found no form, no time, how and when to do it.
Stephan Arkadić had already gone down to himself, divided himself, smiled again, dressed in a gorgeous night shirt and slept, and Levin slowed everything at him in the room, talking about different holes and not being able to ask what he wanted.
“How surprisingly the soap is done,” he said, looking at and dissolving a fragile piece of soap that Agaphya Mikhailovna prepared for the guest, but that Oblonsky did not use. Look, it’s a work of art.
“Yes, every improvement has now been done,” said Stepan Arkadić, wet and blessed. The theaters, and these fun... A A A A A A A A A A A! Electric light everywhere.
“Yes, electric light,” said Levin. and yes.
Where is Vronsky now? He asked, and suddenly put a soap.
of Vronsky? - said Stepan Arkadić, stoping the swallow, - he is in St. Petersburg.
I left shortly after you and then I have never been in Moscow.
And you know, Kosta, I will tell you the truth, - he continued, clothed on the table and placed on his hand his beautiful ruby face, from which they glowed like stars, olive, good and sleepy eyes. You were guilty yourself.
You were afraid of the rival.
And I, as I told you then, I don’t know on whose side there were more chances.
Why did you not go on?
I told you at that time that... - He swallowed with one eyelid without opening his mouth.
“He knows or doesn’t know what I’ve made an offer? He thought Levin, looking at him. “Yes, there’s something smart, diplomatic in it,” and, feeling that it’s red, he silently looked straight into the eyes of Stepan Arkadić.
- If there was something from her side then, it was a appearance enthusiasm, - continued Oblonsky. This, you know, perfect aristocracy and the future position in the light did not affect her, but the mother.
Levin was swallowed.
The insult of rejection through which he passed, as if a fresh, just received wound burned him in the heart.
He was at home and the walls helped.
“Stay, stand,” he said, breaking over Oblonsky, “you say aristocracy.
And let me ask you what is this Aristocracy of Vronsky, or whoever, such an aristocracy that I can ignore?
You think Vronsky is an aristocrat, but I don’t.
A man whose father came out of nothing with a foolishness, whose mother God knows whom he has not been in connection with.
No, sorry, but I consider myself as an aristocrat and people like me, who in the past can indicate three or four honest generations of families that were at the highest level of education (the gift and the mind is another thing), and who never understood anyone, never needed anyone, as my father, my grandfather, lived.
I know a lot of such.
It seems low to you that I count the trees in the forest, and you donate thirty thousand Rabbins; but you will get a lease, and I don’t know what, and I won’t get, and that’s why I value the family and the labour.
We are aristocrats, not those who can exist only by submissions from the strong world of this and who can be purchased for the double.
For whom are you?
I agree with you, — said Stephan Arkadić honestly and joyfully, although he felt that Levin under the name of those that can be bought for a double, understood him as well.
He really liked Levin's recovery. To whom are you?
Although a lot is false that you are talking about Vronsky, but I’m not talking about it.
I say to you straight, I would go with you to Moscow in your place and...
“No, I don’t know if you know or not, but I don’t care. And I’ll tell you, I’ve made an offer and I’ve received a rejection, and Catherine Alexandrovna is now a heavy and shy memory for me.
Here is a blow!
But let’s not talk.
“Sorry me, please if I was cruel to you,” said Levin.
Now, after saying everything, he became again the same as it was in the morning. Do you not be angry on me, Steve?
Please don’t be angry,” he said and, smiling, took him for his hand.
No, no, and not for what.
I am glad we explained.
And you know, the tomorrow will be good.
Not to go?
I would never sleep, but just from the drive to the station.
And wonderfully.
Despite the fact that the whole inner life of Vronsky was filled with his passion, his external life continuously and irresistibly rushed on the former, usual rails of secular and secular ties and interests.
Political interests took an important place in the life of Vronsky and because he loved the regiment, and even more because he was loved in the regiment.
In the playoff not only loved Vronsky, but he was respected and proud of them, proud that this man, enormously rich, with wonderful education and abilities, with an open way to all kinds of success and courtesy and devotion, ignored this all and from all life interests closestly took to the heart the interests of the playoff and friendship.
Wronsky was aware of this view of himself as a companion and, in addition to loving this life, he felt obliged to support the view established on him.
It is clear that he has not talked to any of his companions about his love, he has not talked even in the strongest sights (but he has never been so drunk to lose power over himself) and has touched the mouth of those of the easy-thinking companions who were trying to indicate him on his connection.
But despite the fact that his love was known to the whole city—all more or less correctly guessed about his attitude to Karenina—the majority of the young people were jealous of him precisely in what was the hardest in his love—in the highest position of Karenina and therefore in the exposure of this connection to the light.
The majority of the young women, who had been jealous of Anna, who had long been troubled by what they called fair, were glad of what they supposed, and were only waiting for the confirmation of the turn of public opinion, so that the whole gravity of their negligence would be overwhelmed to her.
They have already prepared the pieces of dirt that they throw into it when the time comes.
Most elderly people and high-level people were unhappy with this preparing public scandal.
The mother of Vronsky, having learned about his connection, was first satisfied — and because nothing, according to her concepts, gave the last decoration to the brilliant young man, as a connection in the upper light, and because Karenina, which so much liked her, talked so much about her son, was still the same as all the beautiful and decent women, according to the concepts of the graffiti of Vronsky.
But recently she learned that her son had renounced the proposed, important for her career, position, only in order to stay in the army, where he could see Karenina, she learned that high-ranking persons were unhappy with it, and she changed her opinion.
She also didn’t like that in all that she learned about this connection, it wasn’t the brilliant, gracious secular connection she would approve, but some verter, desperate passion, as she was told, which could bring him into stupidity.
She did not see him since his unexpected departure from Moscow and, through her older son, she demanded him to come to her.
The older brother was also unhappy with the smaller.
He didn’t understand what love it was, big or small, passionate or not passionate, wicked or not wicked (he himself, having children, kept the dancer and therefore was humiliated to it); but he knew that it was love not loving those to be loved, and therefore did not approve the behavior of his brother.
In addition to the occupations of service and light, Vronsky had another occupation - horses, to which he was a passionate hunter.
In the same year, officer races with obstacles were appointed. Vronsky registered for the races, bought the English blood cabbage, and despite his love, he was passionate, although retardated, fascinated by the upcoming races.
The two passions did not interfere with each other.
On the contrary, he needed the occupation and enthusiasm, not depending on his love, on which he refreshed and rested from his too annoying impressions.
On the day of the Krasnoyarsk racing, Vronsky before the usual came to eat a buffet in the common hall of the arthels of the regiment.
He did not have to withstand himself very strictly, because his weight was just equal to the four pounds set by half; but he did not have to thunder, and therefore he avoided the dull and sweet.
He was sitting in a stretched over a white jacket, covering himself with both hands on the table, and waiting for the ordered buffet, he looked at the book of a French novel, lying on the plate.
He looked at the book only then, not to talk to the entering and outgoing officers, and thought.
He thought that Anna promised to give him a date today after the leap.
But he didn’t see her for three days, and as a result of his husband’s return from abroad, he didn’t know if it was possible now or not, and he didn’t know how to know it.
He met her for the last time at the dache at the cousin of Betty.
At the carnival he was driving as rarely as possible. Now he wanted to go there and thought about how to do it.
“Naturally, I’ll say that Betty sent me to ask if she’s going to run.
Of course, I’m going to go,” he decided himself, lifting his head out of the book. And, lively imagining the happiness of seeing her, he glowed his face.
He said to the servant who gave him a buffet on a silver hot dish, and when he brought the dish, he got to eat.
In the neighboring billard was heard the strikes of balls, speech and laughter.
From the entrance doors appeared two officers: one young man, with a weak, thin face, who recently entered the Pashean Corps into their regiment; the other swollen, old officer with a bracelet on his hand and swimming small eyes.
Wronsky looked at them, swallowed and, as if he didn’t notice them, kissed the book, began to eat and read together.
What? Do you rely on work? - said the foolish officer, sitting under him.
- You see, - answered Vronsky, turning, washing his mouth and not looking at him.
Are you not afraid of stumbling? He said, turning the chair for a young officer.
What? - Wronsky said angry, making a grace of hatred and showing his smooth teeth.
Are you not afraid to throw?
I am a man, Harris! - said Vronsky, not answering, and, translating the book to the other side, continued to read.
The foolish officer took the wine card and turned to the young officer. “You have chosen what we’re going to drink,” he said, giving him a card and looking at him.
“Maybe, Reinweyn,” said the young officer, throwing a little bit on Vronsky and trying to catch the slightly mature spots with his fingers.
When Vronsky not turned, the young officer stood up.
“Let’s go to the billard,” he said.
The foolish officer stood up and they turned to the door.
At that time, the high and stealthy rottmister Yashvin entered the room and, on the top, negligently swallowing the head to two officers, approached Vronsky.
A! Here is he! He screamed, striking him strongly with his big hand to the pursuit.
Vronsky looked angry, but immediately his face glowed his own calm and solid grace.
“Smart, Alisha,” said the rothmister with a loud bariton. Now you are singing and drinking one cup.
I don’t want to eat.
“These are inseparable,” Yashvin added, laughing at the two officers who were out of the room at that time.
And he sat under Vronsky, throwing with sharp angles his too long at the height of the chairs of the stretch and holes in narrow reituses. Why did you not go to the Crown Theatre?
Numero was stupid. Where have you been?
“I sat down at Tversky,” Wronsky replied.
A! Yashwin was called.
Yashvin, a player, a coat and not only a man without any rules, but with unmoral rules, Yashvin was the best friend of Vronsky in the army.
Wronsky loved him and for his unusual physical strength, which he mostly expressed in what he could drink, like a bottle, not sleep and be the same, and for the great moral strength he expressed in his relationships with bosses and comrades, causing fear and respect, and in the game he played for tens of thousands and always, despite the drinked wine, so thin and solid that he was considered the first player in the English club.
Wronsky respected and loved him especially because he felt that Yashvin loved him not for his name and wealth, but for himself.
And of all the people with him one Wronsky would like to talk about his love.
He felt that Yashvin alone, despite what seemed to be neglecting all feelings, one, which seemed to be Wronsky, could understand that strong passion that now filled his whole life.
Furthermore, he was confident that Yashvin probably no longer find pleasure in the plot and scandal, but understands that feeling as it should, that is, he knows and believes that this love is not a joke, not a fun, but something serious and more important.
Wronsky didn’t talk to him about his love, but he knew he knew everything, he understood everything as he should, and he was pleased to see it in his eyes.
Oh yeah yeah! He said that Vronsky was with Tversky, and, glowing with his black eyes, took his left mouth and began to put him into the mouth, according to his bad habit.
What did you do yesterday?
has won? I asked Vronsky.
Eight thousand.
Three are not good, it’s hard to give.
- Well, so you can lose for me, - said Vronsky laughing.
(Jashvin kept a lot of money for Vronsky.)
I won’t lose for anything. One machot is dangerous.
And the conversation passed to the expectations of the current race, which Wronsky could only think about now.
“Let’s go, I’m over,” said Vronsky and, stood up, went to the door.
Yashvin also stood up, stretching his huge legs and his long back.
I have to eat early, and I have to drink. She is guilty! - he screamed to his famous in command, thick and forced to throw the glass with a voice. “No, no,” he immediately screamed again. You’re home, so I’ll go with you.
And they went with Vronsky.
Vronsky stood in a spacious and clean, moisturized above the Chuchon Bay.
Petritsky lived with him in the camps.
Petritsky slept when Vronsky and Yashvin entered the explosion.
- Stay up, it will sleep, - said Yashvin, walking behind the hill and throwing behind the shoulder of his nose into the pocket of the wicked Petritsky.
Petritsky suddenly jumped on his knees and looked.
“Your brother was here,” he said to Vronsky. He awakened me, took him, and said he would come again. - And he again, stretching the coat, dropped on the подуal. “Let’s go, Yashvin,” he said, angry on Yashvin, who dropped the cover from him. Leave it! He turned and opened his eyes. You’re better to say that you’re drinking; such a shit in your mouth that...
“Wodka is the best,” asks Yashvin. The Tereshchenko! “The vodka barin and the garlic,” he screamed, apparently loving to hear his voice.
Would you think vodka? and? He asked Petritsky, turning and turning his eyes. Are you going to drink?
Together we drink!
Would you drink? - said Petritsky, standing up and stumbling under his hands in the tiger coat. He went out to the door, lifted his hands and sang in French: "There was a king in Tu-u-le." Would you drink?
“Remove yourself,” said Vronsky, who was wearing a lacky sweater.
This is where? I asked Joshua. “There are three,” he added, when he saw the wheel coming.
“In the cabin, I still need Bryansky about the horses,” said Vronsky.
Wronsky really promised to be with Bryansky, in ten verts from Peterhof, and to bring him money for the horses; and he wanted to be able to go there too.
But the friends immediately realized that he was not just going there.
Petritsky, continuing to sing, swallowed his eyes and swallowed his lips, as to say: we know what it is Bryansky.
Look not late! — said only Yashvin, and to change the conversation, — What is good for my savrasy? He asked, looking in the window, about the original he sold.
Stay up! - Petritsky screamed to Vronsky who had already gone. Your brother has left a letter to you and a note, Stay, where are they?
Vronsky stopped.
Well, where are they?
Where are they?
Here is the question! - spoke solemnly Petritsky, leading up from the nose with a indicative finger.
To say, it’s stupid! - Smiling, said Vronsky.
I didn’t drop the stone.
Here somewhere.
Well, it is full!
Where is the letter?
Right is forgotten.
Did I see it in a dream?
Stay and Stay!
What to be angry!
If you, like me yesterday, had drunk four bottles for your brother, you would have forgotten where you lie.
Stop, I will remember now!
Petritsky went to the corner and slept to his bed.
Stay up!
So I lie, so he stood.
The Da-Da...
This is it! And Petritsky pulled out the letter from under the mattress, where he closed it.
Vronsky took the letter and the note of his brother.
That was what he expected—a letter from his mother with accusations that he didn’t come, and a note from his brother saying it was necessary to negotiate.
Vronsky knew that it was about the same thing.
“What do they do!” -Wronsky thought and, laughing the letters, swallowed them between the bulbs of the surtuck to carefully read the way.
In the shadows of the exhibition he met two officers: one of them, and the other of the regiment.
Vronsky's apartment has always been the shelter of all officers.
Where to?
I need to go to Petersburg.
The horse came from the king.
He came, and I didn’t see it yet.
- They say, Mahotina Gladiator has crumbled.
The rise!
How do you jump on that dirt? He said another.
Here are my saviors! He cried, when he saw the entering, Petritsky, in front of whom stood a dungeon with vodka and salted garlic on the ground. Yashvin says to drink to refresh.
“Well, you asked us yesterday,” said one of the coming, “you didn’t sleep all night.
No, what we finished! - said Petritsky, - The wolf went down on the roof and said he was sad.
I say: give music, a funeral march!
He slept on the roof under a funeral march.
- Drink, drink vodka necessarily, and then farm water and a lot of lemon, - said Yashvin, standing over Petritsky, like a mother forcing the child to take the medicine, - and then a little champagne, - yes, a bottle.
This is smart.
Stay down, we drink.
No, goodbye, I don’t drink now.
What do you weigh?
So we are alone.
Add agricultural water and lemon.
The Wronsky! Someone was screaming when he was going out in the seat.
What?
- You'd cut your hair, and then they're heavy, especially on the shell.
Vronsky really started swallowing early.
He laughed joyfully, showing his smooth teeth, and, overcome the feed on the linen, went out and sat in the wheel.
In the cabin! He said and got the letters to read them, but then he thought not to have fun until he looked at the horse. “And then!”
The temporary cabin, a ballagan of plates, was built under the hippodrome itself, and his horse had to be brought there yesterday.
He has not seen her yet.
In these last days he didn’t ride himself, but ordered the coach and now he definitely didn’t know what the condition he came and was his horse.
Soon he came out of the wheelchair, as his cowboy (grum), the so-called boy, knowing his wheelchair far away, called the coach.
A dry English man in high socks and in a short jacket, with a clock of hair left only under the boat, an unwilling walk of jokes, broken the locks and scratching, came out to the face.
What is Fro-Fru? I asked Vronsky in English.
-Alll right, sir - everything is right, strike, - somewhere inside the throat spoke the voice of an English man. “Better don’t go,” he added, lifting his hat. I worn a moisturizer, and the horse was excited.
It is better not to walk, it worries the horse.
No, I’m going to go.
I want to look.
“Let’s go,” he said, even without opening his mouth, swallowing up, the Englishman said, and swallowing his locks, he went forward with his advanced walk.
They entered the courtyard in front of the bar.
The worker, in a clean jacket, charged, young boy, with a metal in his hand, met the entering and followed them.
In the bark there were five horses on the day, and Vronsky knew that right now he should be brought and stands his main rival, the red five-hole Gladiator Machotina.
Even more than his horse, Vronsky wanted to see the Gladiator, which he did not see; but Vronsky knew that, according to the laws of the honour of horses, it was not only impossible to see him, but it was uncomfortable to ask about him.
As he walked through the corridor, the boy opened the door to the second hole to the left, and Vronsky saw a red large horse and white legs.
He knew that he was the Gladiator, but with the feeling of a man turning away from a stranger's revealed letter, he turned and approached the Frou-Fru daily.
Here is the horse.
“Mc... I can’t ever say that name,” said the English man through his shoulder, pointing a big finger with a dirty nail on the gladiator’s notebook.
The Machotine?
Yes, it’s one of my serious rivals,” Wronsky said.
“If you were driving on him,” the Englishman said, “I’d keep you.
“Fru-Fru is more nervous, he is stronger,” said Vronsky, smiling from the praise of his ride.
“With obstacles, it’s all in the ride and in the pluck,” the Englishman said.
Rluck, that is, energy and courage, Wronsky not only felt enough in himself, but, much more importantly, he was firmly convinced that no one in the world could have this rluck more than he had.
Do you really know that there was no need for more sweating?
“No need,” the English man replied. Please do not speak loudly.
The horse is worried, — he added, whispering his head on the closed pen, before which they stood, and where the foot switched on the slope was heard.
He opened the door, and Vronsky entered a poorly enlightened one small pen.
In the daynick, crossing the legs on a fresh salmon, a karaoke horse stood with a slurry.
Looking in the middle of the daylight, Vronsky once again involuntaryly encountered with one common view all of becoming his favorite horse.
Fru-Fru was a medium-sized horse and not unprofitable.
She was a whole narrow bone; although her chest was strongly advanced, her chest was narrow.
The back was slightly swallowed, and in the legs of the front, and especially the back, there was a substantial collapse.
The muscles of the back and front legs were not large; but in the substrate the horse was unusually wide, which was impressive now, with its stretch and burning.
The bones of her legs below the knees seemed not thicker than the finger, looking forward, but they were unusually wide, looking side by side.
It was all, except the ribs, as if it was drawn from the sides and stretched into the depths.
But in the highest degree she had a quality that forced her to forget all the shortcomings; that quality was the blood, the blood that affects, in the English word.
The sharply performing muscles from under the grid, stretched in thin, moving and smooth as the atlas, the skin, seemed as strong as the bone.
Her dry head with exhausted glowing, joyful eyes expanded at the scratch into the outstanding nodes with a blurry inside the blood.
In the whole figure and especially in her head there was a certain energetic and gentle expression together.
She was one of those animals that seem to not speak just because the mechanical device of their mouth does not allow them to do so.
Wronsky at least seemed that she understood everything he now, looking at her, felt.
As soon as Vronsky entered her, she thinly pulled the air into herself and, scratching her broken eye so that the protein was flowing with blood, from the opposite side she looked at the entering, scratching with a mount and steadily passing from foot to foot.
“Well, see how excited she is,” said the Englishman.
Oh my dear! Oh! - he said to Wronsky, coming to the horse and telling her.
But the closer he approached, the more he was worried.
Only when he approached her head, she suddenly silenced, and her muscles stumbled under a thin, gentle hair.
Wronsky squeezed her strong neck, repaired on an acute slurry swallowed on the other side of the grape and moved his face to her stretched, thin, like the wing of a flying mouse, the nose.
She soundly pulled out and released the air from the tensioned nails, swallowing, pushing an sharp ear and pulling out a strong black mouth towards Vronsky, as if he wanted to catch him for his arms.
But, remembering the narrow, she swallowed them and again began to move one after the other her curved legs.
Be calm, dear, be calm. He said, throwing her with the hand on the thumb, and with a joyful awareness that the horse in the best condition came out of the thumb.
The horse’s turmoil was also to Vronsky; he felt that the blood flows to his heart and that he, like the horses, wanted to move and kiss; it was both terrible and fun.
“Well, so I hope you,” he said to the Englishman, “at six and a half in place.
“It’s all right,” said the Englishman. Where are you going, Millard? - he asked, suddenly using this name my-Logd, which he almost never used.
Wronsky with surprise raised his head and looked how he was able to look, not in the eyes, but in the forehead of the English man, surprised by the courage of his question.
But when he realized that the English man, asking this question, looked at him not as a master, but as a joke, he answered:
I need to go to Brynsky, I will be home in an hour.
“How many times this question is asked to me today!” He said to himself and reddened what rarely happened to him.
The Englishman looked at him carefully. And as if he knew where Vronsky was going, he added:
“The first thing is to be quiet before driving,” he said, “Do not be in spirit and do not be scared of anything.
- All right, - laughing, Vronsky answered and, jumping into the wheel, ordered to go to St. Petersburg.
He just took a few steps away, as the storm, threatened by rain in the morning, was overcome, and the flood flooded.
“It is bad! I thought Wronsky, lifting the wheel. It was dirty, and it’s going to be very painful.”
Sitting alone in a closed wheel, he received his mother’s letter and his brother’s note and read them.
Yes, it was all the same.
Everyone, his mother, his brother, all found it necessary to interfere in his heart affairs.
This intervention raised in him anger—a feeling that he rarely experienced.
“What do they do?
Why do everyone think it is their duty to take care of me?
Why are they attached to me?
Because they see that it is something they cannot understand.
If it were a ordinary passing secular connection, they would leave me in peace.
They feel that it’s something else, that it’s not a toy, that woman is more expensive for me life.
And that’s incomprehensible and therefore annoying for them.
Whatever our destiny is and will be, we have done it, and we do not complain about it, he said, in the word we unite ourselves with Anna. They need to teach us how to live.
They have no idea of what happiness is, they don’t know that without this love there is no happiness or misfortune for us, there is no life,” he thought.
He was angry on everyone for the intervention just because he felt in the soul that they, all of them, were right.
He felt that the love that connected him to Anna was not a minute enthusiasm that passed as secular ties passed, without leaving any other trace in the life of each other except pleasant or unpleasant memories.
He felt all his suffering and his position, all the difficulty at that exposure to the eyes of the whole world in which they were, to hide their love, to lie and to deceive; and to lie, to deceive, to deceive and to constantly think about others when the passion that connects them was so strong that they both forgot all of each other except their love.
He lively remembered all those frequently repeated cases of the need for lies and fraud that were so contradictory to his nature; he lively remembered the feeling of shame repeatedly observed in it for this need for lies and fraud.
And he experienced a strange feeling, since his time of contact with Anna sometimes found on him.
It was a feeling of freedom to something: to Alexey or Alexandrovich, to himself or to all the light, he didn’t know well.
But he has always removed that strange feeling.
And now, trembling, he continued the course of his thoughts.
“Yes, she was unhappy before, but proud and quiet; and now she can’t be quiet and worthy, although she doesn’t show that.
Yes, it has to end,” he decided himself.
And for the first time he came to mind with a clear idea that it is necessary to stop this lies, and the faster, the better.
“To break everything for her and for me and to escape somewhere with her love,” he said to himself.
Lives were short, and when Vronsky came up on all the roots of the original, pulling out the jumpers already without fire on the dirt of the stretched, the sun again appeared, and the roofs of the dach, the old leaves of the gardens on both sides of the main street glowed with a wet glow, and the branches gladly capped, and the water fled from the roof.
He didn’t think about how this line would break down by the hippower, but now he was glad that due to this rain it would probably stop her home and one, as he knew that Alexey Alexandrovich, who recently returned from the waters, didn’t move from St. Petersburg.
Hoping to stop her one, Vronsky, as he and always did it to turn less attention to himself, tears, without crossing the bridge, and went on foot.
He didn’t walk on the wing from the street, but went into the courtyard.
Barry has come? He asked the gardener.
No in any way.
Barry at home.
“You say goodbye from the wing; there are people, they will warm up,” said the gardener.
I’m going to go out of the garden.
And having been convinced that she was alone, and wanting to stop her, because he didn’t promise to be today, and she, indeed, didn’t think that he would come before the runs, he went, holding the sable and carefully walking on the sand of the road, surrounded by flowers, to the terrace that went out to the garden.
Wronsky now forgot everything he thought long about the severity and difficulty of his situation.
He thought of one that he will now see it not in one imagination, but alive, all that it is in reality.
He was already entering, stepping in all his legs, so that he didn’t laugh, on the desolate stages of the terrace, when he suddenly remembered what he always forgot, and what was the most painful side of his relationship with her, her son with his questioning, contrary to his appearance, look.
This boy was more often the obstacle to their relationships.
When he was here, neither Vronsky nor Anna allowed themselves to talk about something they couldn’t repeat at all, but they didn’t even allow themselves to talk about something the boy didn’t understand.
They did not talk about it, but it was established by themselves.
They would consider it an insult to deceive the child.
They talked to each other as acquaintances.
But, despite this carefulness, Vronsky often saw the attentive and disturbing sight of the child and the strange slavery, inequality, so grace, so coldness and shyness toward himself of this boy.
As if a child felt that there was some important relationship between this person and his mother, the meaning of which he cannot understand.
Indeed, the boy felt that he couldn’t understand that relationship, and was strong and couldn’t understand the feeling he should have towards that person.
With the sensitivity of the child to the manifestation of his feelings, he clearly saw that the father, the governor, the grandmother—all not only didn’t love, but with hatred and fear looked at Vronsky, although they didn’t say anything about him, but that the mother looked at him as a best friend.
“What does that mean?
Who is he?
How to love him?
If I don’t understand, I’m guilty, either I’m a fool or a bad boy,” the child thought; and from this came his experiential, questionable, partially unpleasant expression, and slavery, and inequality, which so embarrassed Vronsky.
The presence of this child always and constantly caused in Vronsky the strange sense of unreasonable mourning that he experienced recently.
The presence of this child caused in Vronsky and Anne a sense, similar to the feeling of the seafarer, seeing by the compass, that the direction in which he moves quickly is far from the right, but that to stop the movement is not in his forces, that every minute removes him more and more from the right direction, and that to acknowledge himself in the withdrawal is all the same as to acknowledge himself in the death.
This child with his naive view of life was a compass that showed them the degree of their deviation from what they knew but did not want to know.
This time Sereghi was not at home, she was completely alone and sat on the terrace, waiting for the return of the son, who went to walk and caught the rain.
She sent a man and a girl to look for him and sat waiting.
Dressed in white with a wide shirt of dress, she sat in the corner of the terrace behind the flowers and did not hear it.
Slowing her black chicken head, she stretched her forehead to the cold leak standing on the pearls, and with both her beautiful hands, with the rings so familiar to him, she held the leak.
The beauty of her whole figure, her head, neck, hands every time, as an unexpected surprise, hit Vronsky.
He stopped, with admiration looking at her.
But just as he wanted to take a step to get closer to her, she already felt his approach, pushed off the leak and turned to him her burned face.
What about you?
Are you unhealthy? He said in French and came to her.
He wanted to escape to her; but remembering that it could be strange, he looked at the balcony door and red, as he was red every time, feeling that he had to be afraid and look.
“No, I’m healthy,” she said, standing up and strongly pressing his stretched hand. I didn’t wait... you.
My God! What cold hands! He said.
“You scared me,” she said. I’m alone and I’m waiting for Sereza, he’s gone walking; they’re coming from here.
But despite trying to be calm, her lips trembled.
“Forgive me that I came, but I couldn’t spend the day without seeing you,” he continued in French, as he always spoke, avoiding the impossible-cold between them and the dangerous you in Russian.
Why to forgive?
I am so happy!
“But you are unhealthy or angry,” he continued without leaving her hands and hanging over her. What did you think about?
“All about one,” she said with a smile.
She said the truth.
Whenever, at any moment, she was asked what she thought about, she could answer without a mistake: about one thing, about her happiness and about her misfortune.
She thought right now when he stopped her, that’s about what: she thought why for others, for Betty for example (she knew her hidden to the light connection with Tushkiewicz), all this was easy, and for her it was so painful?
This thought, for some reasons, especially suffered her.
She asked him about the runs.
He answered her and, seeing that she was excited, trying to entertain her, began to tell her the simplest tone of the details of the preparation for the runs.
To say or not to say? She thought, looking in her quiet loving eyes. “He is so happy, so busy with his leapings; that he does not understand this as well, he does not understand all the meaning of this event for us.”
“But you didn’t say what you thought of when I entered,” he said, interrupting his story, “Please tell me!”
She didn’t answer and, lying her head a little, looked at him sublime questionably with her brilliant because of the long eyelids with her eyes.
Her hand, playing with a folded leaf, drilled.
He saw it, and his face expressed that obedience, the slave devotion that so undercovered her.
I see something happened.
Can I be calm for a minute, knowing that you have a hurt that I don’t share?
Say for the sake of God! he prayingly repeated.
“Yes, I will not forgive him if he doesn’t understand all the meaning of it.
“It’s better not to say why to try.” She thought, just as she looked at him and felt that her hand with the leaf was more and more trembling.
— God’s sake! — he repeated, taking her hand.
to say?
Yes, yes, yes...
“I’m pregnant,” she said quietly and slowly.
The sheet in her hand broke even stronger, but she didn’t drop the eye from him to see how he would accept it.
He bleed, wanted to say something, but stopped, released her hand and lowered her head.
“Yes, he understood all the meaning of this event,” she thought and thankfully wrapped his hand.
But she was wrong in the fact that he understood the meaning of the news as she, the woman, understood him.
At the same time, he felt with a decennial force the fall of this strange, who found on him feelings of freedom to someone; but at the same time he realized that the crisis he wanted will come now, that no longer can be hidden from his husband, and it is necessary to destroy this unnatural situation in any way.
But, in addition, her excitement was physically communicated to him.
He looked at her with a humble, obedient look, kissed her hand, stood up and silently walked through the terrace.
“Yes,” he said, “I’m strongly coming to her. Neither I nor you have seen our relationship as a toy, but now our fate is resolved.
It is necessary to end, he said, looking at, the lies in which we live.
to end?
How do you get away, Alex? She said quietly.
She calmed now, and her face glowed with a gentle smile.
Leave our husband and unite our lives.
“She’s connected and so,” she answered a little.
Yes, but completely, completely.
But how did Alexy teach me how? She said with a sad laughter about the outcome of her position. Is there a way out of this situation?
Am I not my husband’s wife?
There is a way out of every situation.
I have to decide, he said. Everything is better than the situation you live in.
For I see how you suffer all things, and the light, and the son, and the husband.
“Oh, but not my husband,” she said with a simple smile. I don’t know, I don’t think of him.
He is not.
You speak unrighteously.
I know you.
You are suffering about him too.
“Yes, he doesn’t know,” she said, and suddenly a bright colour began to appear on her face; her head, neck and neck were red, and the tears of shame appeared on her eyes. We will not talk about him.
Wronsky has tried several times, though not as determined as now, to invite her to discuss her situation, and every time he faced that superficiality and ease of judgments with which she was now responding to his challenge.
As if there was something in it that she couldn’t or didn’t want to understand, as if, as soon as she began to talk about it, she, the real Anna, was going somewhere in herself and speaking another, strange, strange woman, whom he didn’t love and fear, and which gave him resistance.
But now he decided to say everything.
“Whether he knows or not,” Wronsky said in his ordinary solid and quiet tone, “whether he knows or not, we don’t have anything to do before.
We can’t... you can’t stay so, especially now.
What to do, according to you? She asked with the same laugh.
She, who was so afraid that he didn’t take her pregnancy easily, was now bored by the fact that he removed from it the need to do something.
Discover everything to him and leave him.
“It’s very good; let’s assume that I’ll do it,” she said. Do you know what will happen from this?
I will tell you all, and the evil light burns in her for a minute before these gentle eyes. “Are you loving another and having a criminal relationship with him? (She, representing her husband, made, just as Alexey Alexandrovich did, an emphasis on the word criminal.)
I warned you about the consequences in religious, civil and family relations.
You did not listen to me. Now I can’t shame my name... and her son, she wanted to say, but her son she couldn’t joke... shame her name,” and something like that, she added. In general, he will say with his state manner and with clarity and accuracy that he cannot release me, but will take the measures that depend on him to stop the scandal.
And he will do calmly, carefully what he will say.
This is what will be.
It is not a man, but a machine, and a bad machine, when it is angry, — she added, remembering Alexey Alexandrovich with all the details of his figure, the ways of speaking and his character, and putting him in guilt everything she could only find the bad one in it, not forgiving him anything for the terrible guilt she was guilty before him.
- But Anna, - said Vronsky with a convincing, soft voice, trying to calm her, - it is still necessary to tell him, and then to lead what he will do.
What about running?
Why not to flee?
I don’t see any possibility to continue this.
And not for myself, I see that you suffer.
-Yes, flee, and I will become your lover? She said evil.
And Anna! He spoke gently.
“Yes,” she continued, “to become your lover and to destroy everything.”
She wanted to say again, son, but she couldn’t say that word.
Wronsky couldn’t understand how she, with her strong, honest nature, could tolerate this situation of deception and not want to get out of it; but he didn’t realize that the main reason for this was the word the son she couldn’t say.
When she thought about her son and his future relationship with his father's mother, she was so scared that she did that she didn't argue, but as a woman, she only tried to calm herself with false arguments and words, so that everything remained old and that it could be forgotten about the terrible question what will be with her son.
“I’m asking you, I’m asking you,” she suddenly said in a completely different, sincere and gentle tone, taking him in the hand, “Don’t ever talk to me about it!
And Anna...
and never.
Give me.
I know all the humility, all the horror of my position; but it is not as easy to resolve as you think.
And give me, and listen to me.
Never talk to me about that.
Do you promise me?
No, no, promise me!
I promise everything, but I can’t be calm, especially after you said.
I can’t be calm when you can’t be calm.
He repeated! he repeated. “Yes, I’m suffering sometimes; but it will pass if you’re never talking to me about it.
When you talk to me about this, only that suffers me.
“I don’t understand,” he said.
I know how hard it is for your honest nature to lie, and I regret you.
I often think of how you lost your life for me.
“I thought the same now,” he said, “how could you sacrifice everyone for me?
I can’t forgive myself that you are unhappy.
I am unhappy? She said, approaching him and looking at him with an enthusiastic love smile, I am like a hungry man to whom I gave food.
Maybe he’s cold, and his dress is broken, and he’s ashamed, but he’s not unhappy.
I am unhappy?
This is my happiness...
She heard the voice of the returning son, and with a quick look at the terrace, she stood up.
Her eyes were burned by the fire known to him, she quickly lifted up her beautiful, ring-covered hands, took him for her head, looked at him with a long look, and, approaching her face with open, smiling lips, she quickly kissed his mouth and both eyes and pulled away.
She wanted to go, but he held her.
when? He spoke with an enthusiastic look at her.
“Nine, at an hour,” she screamed and, hardly breathing, went with her easy and fast step towards her son.
The rain drove in a large garden, and they and their grandmother sat in the basement.
“Well, before meeting,” she said to Vronsky. Soon we have to run.
Betty promised to follow me.
Vronsky, looking at the clock, quickly left.
When Vronsky looked at the clock on the Balcony of the Karenians, he was so anxious and busy with his thoughts that he saw the shots on the ciferblate, but could not understand which hour.
He went out on the road and went, carefully walking on the dirt, to his wheel.
He was so overwhelmed with the feeling to Anne that he didn’t even think about what hour and whether he still had time to go to Bryansky.
He remained, as it often happens, only the external capacity of memory, indicating what it is decided to do after.
He approached his puppy, who was sleeping on the cows in the hair already the shadows of a thick lip, admired the swallowing slopes of thick horses, and, awakening the puppy, jumped into the wheel and ordered to go to Bryansky.
When he left the seventh, he remembered so much that he looked at the clock and realized that it was half the sixth and that he was late.
On that day there were a few leap: a convoy leap, then a two-storey officer, a four-storey leap and the leap in which he jumped.
To his jump he could sing, but if he goes to Bryansky, he will only come, and he will come when the whole court is already there.
It was bad.
But he gave Bryan's word to be with him and therefore decided to go further, telling the dog not to regret the trio.
He came to Bryansky, spent five minutes with him and jumped back.
This fast ride calmed him.
All the hard things that had been in his relationship with Anna, all the uncertainty left after their conversation, all jumped out of his head; he with pleasure and enthusiasm thought now about jumping, that he would still sing, and suddenly the expectation of the happiness of today’s gathering burned a bright light in his imagination.
The feeling of the upcoming leap increasingly covered him as he entered further and further into the atmosphere of leap, pursuing the crew riding from the dach and from St. Petersburg to leap.
In his apartment no one was at home anymore: everyone was on the runs, and the lake waited for him at the door.
While he was dressed up, Lakey told him that the second runs had already begun, that many gods came to ask about him and the boy fled twice from the cabin.
Crossing without hurry (he never rushed and lost no self-control), Vronsky ordered to drive to the bars.
From the barks he had already seen the sea of crew, pedestrians, soldiers surrounding the hip-podrome, and boiling by the people.
It was probably the second jump, because while he was entering the bar, he heard a call.
Approaching the canyon, he met the white-node red Gladiator of Mahotina, whom in orange with a blue popon, with seemingly huge, rounded blue ears, heads on the hippower.
Where is Cord? He asked the cabin.
In the cabin, they sit.
In the open dayroom of Frou-Fru was already seated.
It was intended to be removed.
Not late?
All right! All right!
It’s all right, it’s all right, said the Englishman, don’t worry.
Wronsky once again scratched the beautiful, loving shapes of the horse, drunking the whole body, and, hardly distracted from this spectacle, went out of the bar.
He arrived at the most favorable time in order not to pay attention to himself.
Just the two-wheeled jump ended, and all the eyes were directed to the cavalgarda in front and the leib-gusar in the back, from the last forces that hunted horses and approached the pillar.
From the middle and from the outside of the circle all stretched to the column, and the cavalergard group of soldiers and officers with loud voices expressed the joy of the expected celebration of their officer and companion.
Vronsky unnoticably entered the middle of the crowd almost at the same time as the call ended, and the high, buried by the dirty cavalergard, who came first, falling down on the seat, began to drop the cause to his grey, darkened from the pot, the hardly breathing grape.
The rabbit, hardly touching his feet, shortened the fast course of his large body, and the cavalergard officer, as a man waking up from a heavy sleep, looked around and hardly smiled.
The crowd of his own and the strangers surrounded him.
Vronsky deliberately escaped the chosen, great-world crowd, which freely and freely moved and negotiated in front of the controversy.
He learned that there was both Karenina, and Betsy, and his brother’s wife, and intentionally, in order not to have fun, he did not approach them.
But the uninterrupted acquaintances stopped him, telling him the details of the previous leapings and asking him why he was late.
While the jumpers were called to the discourse to receive the prizes and everyone turned there, the older brother of Vronsky, Alexander, a colonel with exelbants, low-growth, the same rooted as Alexey, but more beautiful and rosy, with a red nose and drunk, open face, approached him.
Have you received my note? He said. You will never find you.
Alexander Vronsky, despite the drunken, especially drunken life, for which he was known, was quite a courtyard man.
He now, speaking to his brother about something very unpleasant to him, knowing that the eyes of many can be focused on them, had a look smiling as if he was joking with his brother about something unimportant.
“I’ve got it and, right, I don’t understand what you’re careful about,” Alexey said.
“I’m worried that now I’ve been noticed that you’re not there and that you’ve been met in St. Petersburg on Monday.
There are affairs that will be discussed only by those who are directly interested in them, and the affairs that you are so careful about are...
Yes, but then they do not serve, not...
I ask you not to interfere, and just.
The dark face of Alexey Vronsky bleached, and the outstanding lower scalp drowned him, which was rare with him.
He, as a man with a very good heart, was rarely angry, but when he was angry and when he had a slurry, then, as Alexander Vronsky knew, he was dangerous.
Alexander Vronsky smiled gladly.
I just wanted to send a letter to my mother.
Ask her and don’t be scared before driving.
Bonne chance, — he added, smiling, and left him.
But after him, a friendly greeting stopped Vronsky again.
You don’t want to know friends.
Hello my cher! - spoken by Stephan Arkadić, and here, among this St. Petersburg glow, not less than in Moscow, glowing with his ruby face and glowing scattered bakebards. I came yesterday and I am glad to see your celebration.
When will we see?
- Go to the artel tomorrow, - said Vronsky, - and, following him, apologizing, for the arm of the jacket, went down to the middle of the hippodrome, where the horses were already introduced for a big jump with obstacles.
The narrow, tormented jumping horses, overwhelmed by the conjury, were brought home, and one after the other new to the upcoming jump appeared, fresh, mostly English horses, in capors, with their supported stomaches, similar to strange huge birds.
Right led the burning beauty of Frou-Fru, who, like on the bricks, passed on her elastic and quite long babies.
Near it was taken a popon from the gladiator.
The large, beautiful, perfectly correct shapes of the grape with a wonderful back and unusually short, over the most coveted grandmothers unintentionally stopped the attention of Vronsky.
He wanted to approach his horse, but he was arrested again by a friend.
“That’s Karenin!” he told a friend with whom he was talking. She is looking for a wife, and she is in the middle of the conversation.
Did you not see her?
“No, he didn’t see,” Vronsky replied, and without even looking at the discourse in which he was pointed to Karenina, he approached his horse.
Vronsky was unable to see the seat, which had to be ordered, as the jumpers called to the chat to get the numbers and send the lony.
With serious, strict, many with blind faces, seventeen officers gathered to the discourse and dissolved the number.
Vronsky got the seventh number.
He said, “Sitting up!”
Feeling that he, along with the other jumpers, is the center to which all the eyes are targeted, Vronsky, in a stressed state in which he was usually slow and quiet in movements, approached his horse.
The courtyard for the celebration of the leap was dressed in his parade costume: a black tightened sweater, tightened gloves, which supported him, and a round black hat and botforts.
He was, as always, quiet and important, and he kept the horse standing in front of him for both occasions.
Frou-Fru continued to throw like a fever.
The full fire of her eyes touched at the nearby Vronsky.
Vronsky pushed his finger under the back.
The horse swallowed stronger, escalated and swallowed the ear.
The English man swallowed his lips, wanting to express a smile over what his seats were trusted.
Sitting, you’ll be less worried.
Vronsky looked at his competitors for the last time.
He knew he would not see them anymore.
The two were already moving forward to the place where they had to go.
Galcin, one of the dangerous rivals and a friend of Vronsky, turned around a grapefruit that didn’t let him sit.
The little leib-gusar in the narrow retuses was driving a gallop, swallowing, like a cat, on a grape, from the desire to imitate the English.
Prince Kuzovlev sat blindly on his blood, the Grabovsky factory, the cabbage, and the English man led it under the wings.
Vronsky and all of his comrades knew Kuzovlev and his characteristic of "weak" nerves and terrible self-love.
They knew that he was afraid of everything, afraid of riding on a front horse; but now, just because it was terrible, because people broke their necks, and that every obstacle had a doctor, a lasaret fura with our cross and a sister of mercy, he decided to jump.
They met with their eyes, and Vronsky gently and favourably humbled him.
One only he did not see, the main rival, Mahotina on the Gladiator.
“Don’t rush,” Cord said to Vronsky, “and remember one thing: don’t stop the obstacles and don’t send, let her choose as she wants.
— Well, well, — said Vronsky, taking the occasion.
If you can, take a run; but don’t desperate until the last minute if you were behind.
The horse failed to move, as Vronsky with a flexible and strong movement became a steel, swallowed stretch and easily, hardly placed his broken body on the scratching skin seat.
Having taken the right foot, he, by the usual gesture, equated the double reasoning between his fingers, and Cord laid his hands.
As if she didn’t know which foot to step before, Frou-Fru, pulling out the long neck of the mouth, treated, as on the bricks, climbing the seed on her flexible back.
Cord, adding a step, followed him.
The enthusiastic horse, on the one hand, on the other hand, trying to deceive the seed, pulled the reason, and Vronsky foolishly with the voice and hand tried to calm her.
They had already approached the stretched river, going to the place where they had to leave.
Many of the jumpers were ahead, many behind, as Vronsky suddenly heard behind himself by the dirt of the road the sounds of a gallop of horses, and was overwhelmed by Mahotin on his white, gladiator hole.
Mahotin smiled, showing his long teeth, but Vronsky looked angry at him.
He didn’t love him at all, now he considered him the most dangerous rival, and he was bored with him that he jumped over, burning his horse.
Frou-Fru pulled his left leg on the galop and made two jumpings, and, angry on the striking causes, passed to the treasury, jumping the seed.
Cord also swallowed and almost fled outside for Vronsky.
All 17 officers jumped.
The jumping had to take place on a large four-storey elliptical-shaped circle in front of the baseball.
On this circle were set nine obstacles: a river, big, in two arshins, a dirty barrier in front of the baseball itself, a canyon dry, a canyon with water, a canyon, an Irish banquet consisting (one of the hardest obstacles) of a val affected by a sick, behind which, unseen to the horse, was still a canyon, so that the horse had to jump over both obstacles or kill; then another two canyons with water and one dry, and the end of the jump was against the baseball.
But the jumping began not from the circle, but at a hundred seated on the side of it, and at this distance there was the first obstacle — a river stretched into three arches with a width that the ridders could arbitrarily jump over or cross the vessel.
Once three rides were aligned, but every time someone's horse was hanging, and it was necessary to ride again first.
The sign of release, Colonel Sestrin, began to be angry when, finally, for the fourth time, he cried, “Have gone!” And the runners trembled.
All the eyes, all the binocles were turned to the fury puppy, while they were aligned.
“Let it go!
They are jumping!” It was heard from all sides after the silence of waiting.
And the puppets and solitary pedestrians began to escape from place to place to better see.
In the first minute the gathering of the rivers spread, and it was seen as they approached the river by two, by three, and one by one.
For the spectators it seemed that they all jumped together; but for the runners there were seconds of difference that were of great importance for them.
The enthusiastic and too nervous Fru-Fru lost the first moment, and a few horses were taken from the place before it, but, not yet jumping the rivers, Vronsky, with all the strengths stopping the horse entering the hole, easily passed three, and in front of it left only the red Gladiator of Machotina, straight and easily stumbling behind the front of Vronsky himself, and still in front of all the beautiful Diana, which had neither the living nor the dead Kuzovlev.
In the first minutes, Vronsky had neither himself nor a horse.
Until the first obstacle, the river, he could not guide the movements of the horse.
Gladiator and Diana approached together and almost at the same moment: once and again, they climbed over the river and flown to the other side; unnoticably, as if they were flying, Fru-Fru cried after them, but at the same time, when Vronsky felt in the air, he suddenly saw, almost under the feet of his horse, Kuzovlev, who walked with Diana on the other side of the river (Kuzovlev left the occasion after a jump, and the horse flown with him through his head).
These details Wronsky learned afterwards, now he only saw that right under the foot, where Frou-Fru should be, could fall the foot or the head of Diana.
But Frou-Fru, like a falling cat, made an effort on the jump with his legs and back and, passing the horse, moved further.
“Oh my dear!” I thought of Vronsky.
After the river, Vronsky mastered the horse and began to hold it, intending to cross the great barrier behind Machotina and already on the next, unreliable distance, he plants in two hundred to try to overcome it.
The great barrier stood in front of the royalty.
The state, and the whole courtyard, and the crowds of the people — all looked at them — on him and on the horse riding distance in front of Mahotin, when they approached the line (this was called the dirty barrier).
Wronsky felt these eyes directed to him from all sides, but he saw nothing but the ears and necks of his horse, running against him the earth and the grape and the white legs of the Gladiator, which quickly dropped the touch before him and remained all at the same distance.
The gladiator rose, without knocking anything, smashed with a short tail and disappeared from the eyes of Vronsky.
The brave! Someone said one voice.
At the same moment, before the eyes of Vronsky, before him, the sheets of the barrier melted.
Without the smallest change in movement, the horse swallowed under it; the sheets hid, and only behind it was something knocking.
Warmed by the gladiator front, the horse climbed too early before the barrier and knocked over it with a backyard.
But her course did not change, and Wronsky, having a rubber of dirt in his face, realized that he was again at the same distance from the Gladiator.
He saw again his thickness, his short tail, and again the same failure, fast moving white legs.
At the same moment, when Vronsky thought that it was now necessary to go around Machotina, Frou-Fru himself, realizing what he thought, without any encouragement, significantly advanced and began to approach Machotina from the most favorable side, from the side of the chain. Machotine did not give chains.
Wronsky only thought of what it was possible to get around and from the outside, how Frou-Fru changed his foot and began to get around in this way.
The shoulder of Frou-Fru, which began to dark from the sweat, was equal to the grape of the Gladiator. A few springs they passed around.
But in front of the obstacle to which they approached, Vronsky, in order not to go a big circle, began to work with motivations, and quickly, at the very corner, passed Mahotin.
He saw his small face filled with dirt. He even seemed that he smiled.
Vronsky crossed Mahotina, but he felt it right now behind himself and without ceasing he heard behind his back a straight jump and a breathtaking, completely fresh breath of the gladiator's nose.
The following two obstacles, the canyon and the barrier, were easily passed, but Vronsky began to hear the sapp and the gladiator's jump closer.
He sent the horse and gladly felt that it was easy to move, and the sound of the Gladiator's cravings was heard again at the same distance.
Wronsky led the leap—that was what he wanted to do and what Cord advised him, and now he was confident in success.
His excitement, joy and delicacy to Frou-Fru increased.
He wanted to look back, but he didn’t dare to do it and tried to calm himself and not send the horses to keep in it a stock equal to what he felt remaining in the Gladiator.
There remains one and the hardest obstacle; if it passes it in front of others, it will come first.
He jumped to the Irish banquet.
Together with Frou-Fru, he saw this banquet far away, and with both of them, he and the horses, there came an instant doubt.
He noticed the insolvency in the horse’s ears and lifted the hole, but immediately felt that the doubt was unfounded: the horse knew what needed. She wandered and moderate, just as he thought, and wandered, and, dropped away from the earth, gave herself the force of the inertia that carried her far beyond the canyon; and in the same takt, without effort, from the same foot, Frou-Fru continued to jump.
Bravo Vronsky! He heard the voices of a lot of people — he knew, his regiment and his friends — who stood at this obstacle; he couldn’t know the voice of Yashvin, but he didn’t see it.
“Oh my beauty!” He thought of Frou-Fru, listening to what was happening behind.
“I jumped!” He thought when he heard the gladiator jumping behind.
There was one last canvas with water in two arches.
Vronsky didn’t look at it, but, wanting to come far first, began to work with the circumstances circularly, jumping up and throwing the horse’s head.
He felt that the horse was going out of the last reserve; not only her neck and shoulders were wet, but on the swallow, on the head, on the sharp ears drops of sweat, and she breathed sharp and short.
But he knew that the stock of this with the excess would be delivered to the remaining two hundred.
Only because he felt closer to the earth, and by the special softness of the movement, Vronsky knew how much the speed added to his horse.
She was flying over the canyon, as if she did not notice she was flying over it like a bird; but at the same time Vronsky, to his horror, felt that, without singing for the horse’s movement, he himself, without understanding how, made a wicked, unforgivable movement, falling down on the seat.
Suddenly his situation changed, and he realized that something terrible happened.
He could not yet report what was happening, as his white legs of the red grape fell down, and Mahotin on a fast jump passed the way.
Wronsky touched one foot of the earth, and his horse fell on that foot.
He hardly managed to stretch his foot as she fell to one side, hardly scratched, and, doing to rise, the foolish efforts of her thin swallow neck, she stumbled on the ground at his feet like a shot bird.
The unpleasant movement made by Vronsky broke her back.
But he realized it a long time later.
Now he only saw that Mahotin quickly went away, and he, shaking, stood alone on a dirty, stable ground, and in front of him, heavy breath, stood Frou-Fru and, turning his head to him, looked at him with his beautiful eyes.
Not yet aware of what happened, Vronsky pulled the horse for the occasion.
She fell again, like a fish, treated by the wings of the seat, laid out the front legs, but, not able to raise the tail, immediately swallowed and fell again on the side.
With an embraced passion of the face, blind and with a trembling lower headache, Vronsky hit her with a cabbage into the stomach and again began to pull for the cause. But she didn’t move, but, touching the hole into the ground, she just looked at the master with her speaking sight.
Ah Ah Ah! - I swallowed Vronsky and caught his head. Ah Ah Ah! What I did! He screamed. And the lost race!
And your guilt is shameful, unforgiving!
And this unhappy, cute, lost horse!
Aaa! What I did!
The people, the doctor and the fieldscher, and the officers of his regiment fled to him.
To his misfortune, he felt that it was a goal and harmless.
The horse broke his back and decided to shoot him.
Vronsky couldn’t answer questions, couldn’t talk to anyone.
He turned and, without lifting the frog that jumped out of his head, went away from the hippodrome, without knowing where.
He felt unhappy.
For the first time in his life he experienced the heavest misfortune, the misfortune irreparable and the one in which I am guilty.
Yashvin with the feed reached him, brought him home, and after half an hour Wronsky came into himself.
But the memory of this jump for a long time remained in his soul the hardest and painful memory in his life.
Alexey Alexandrovich's relationship with his wife was the same as before.
The only difference was that he was even more busy than before.
As in the previous year, with the opening of the spring, he went to the water abroad to repair his disturbed annual increased winter work health and, as usual, returned in July and immediately with increased energy took for his usual work.
As usual, his wife moved to the house and he stayed in St. Petersburg.
Since that conversation after the evening with the princess of Tverskaya, he has never talked to Anna about his suspicions and jealousy, and his ordinary tone of depicting someone was as impossible more convenient for his current relationships with his wife.
He was a little cold to his wife.
He was just as if he had a little disappointment on her for the first night conversation she turned away from herself.
In his relationship with her there was a shade of obsession, but no more.
“You didn’t want to explain to me — as if he had spoken, thinking about her — the worse it was for you.
Now you will ask me, and I will not explain.
The worse for you," he said thoughtfully, as a man who would foolishly try to burn the fire, would be angry about his foolish efforts and say, "Yes, you! You will burn for it!”
He, this intelligent and delicate man in official affairs, did not understand all the madness of such a relationship with a woman.
He did not understand this because he was too scared to understand his current position, and he closed, closed and sealed in his soul the box in which he had his feelings to the family, that is, to his wife and son.
He, a careful father, from the end of this winter became especially cold to his son and had the same supporting attitude to him as to his wife.
“A! A young man!” He turned to him.
Alexey Alexandrovich thought and said that in no year he had not had as much official affairs as in the present; but he did not realize that he himself invented himself in this year affairs, that it was one of the means not to open that box where lies the feelings to his wife and family and the thoughts about them and which were made as terrible as long as they were there.
If someone had the right to ask Alexey Alexandrovich what he thinks about his wife’s behavior, then the gentle, humble Alexey Alexandrovich would not answer anything, but would be very angry about the person who would ask him about it.
That was something proud and strict in the expression of Alexey Alexandrovich’s face when he was asked about his wife’s health.
Alexey Alexandrovich didn’t want to think about his wife’s behavior and feelings, and he really didn’t think about it.
Alexey Alexandrovich's permanent dacha was in St. Petersburg, and usually Count Lydia Ivanovna lived in the summer there, in the neighborhood and in constant relations with Anna.
In this year, Count Lydia Ivanovna refused to live in St. Petersburg, never was with Anna Arkadievna and indicated Alexey Alexandrovich on the inconvenience of Anne's approach to Betty and Vronsky.
Alexey Aleksandrovich strictly stopped her, expressing the thought that his wife was above suspicion, and since then began to escape Count Lydia Ivanovna.
He didn’t want to see and didn’t see that in the light already many hair look at his wife, he didn’t want to understand and didn’t understand why his wife insisted on moving to Tsarskoe, where Beti lived, from where it was close to the camp of the Vronsky regiment.
He did not allow himself to think about it and did not think about it; but at the same time he in the depths of his soul, never telling it to himself and without having any evidence, but also any suspicion, knew undoubtedly that he was a deceived husband, and was deeply unhappy with it.
How many times during his eight-year happy life with his wife, looking at other unfaithful wives and deceived husbands, Alexey Alexandrovich said to himself: "How can I allow this? How can we not dissolve this wicked situation?”
But now, when the trouble fell on his head, he not only didn’t think about how to disconnect this situation, but he didn’t want to know it at all, he didn’t want to know it just because it was too horrible, too unnatural.
Since his return from abroad, Alexey Aleksandrovich has been on the dache twice.
One time he had lunch, another time he spent the evening with guests, but never night, as he had the habit to do it in the past years.
The day of the racing was a very busy day for Alexey Alexandrovich; but in the morning he decided that immediately after the early lunch he would go to the house to his wife and from there to the racing, on which the whole yard will be and on which he should be.
He will go to his wife because he decided to be with her once a week for honour.
In addition, on that day he had to transfer his wife to the fifth number, according to the order, for the expenditure of the money.
With the usual power over his thoughts, considering all this about his wife, he did not allow his thoughts to spread further about what touched her.
This morning was very busy with Alexey Alexandrovich.
On the eve, Count Lydia Ivanovna sent him a brochure of the former in St. Petersburg famous traveler in China with a letter asking him to accept the traveler himself, a person, for various reasons, very interesting and necessary.
Alexey Alexandrovich failed to read the brochure in the evening and read it in the morning.
Then appeared practitioners, began reports, receptions, appointments, removal, distribution of awards, pensions, complaints, letters—this awakening matter, as he called Alexey Alexandrovich, which took so much time.
Then there was a personal affairs, a visit to the doctor and the manager of affairs.
The manager did not take much time.
He only transferred the necessary money to Alexey Alexandrovich and gave a brief report on the state of things that were not quite good, as it happened that this year due to frequent departure was lived more, and there was a deficit.
But the doctor, the famous Petersburg doctor, who was in friendly relations with Alexey Alexandrovich, took a lot of time.
Alexey Alexandrovich was not waiting for him today and was surprised by his arrival and even more by the fact that the doctor very carefully asked Alexey Alexandrovich about his state, listened to his chest, choked and choked the liver.
Alexey Alexandrovich didn’t know that his friend Lydia Ivanovna, noticing that Alexey Alexandrovich’s health is bad this year, asked the doctor to come and see the sick.
“Do this for me,” Count Lydia Ivanovna told him.
“I’m going to do this for Russia, Count,” the doctor replied.
A worthless man! Count Lydia Ivanovna said.
The doctor was very unhappy with Alexey Alexandrovich.
He found the liver significantly increased, the nutrition reduced and the action of water no.
He prescribed as much physical movement as possible and as little mental tension as possible and, most importantly, no annoyances, that is, what was as impossible for Alexey Alexandrovich as not to breathe; and went away, leaving in Alexey Alexandrovich the unpleasant consciousness that something in it is bad and that it is not possible to fix it.
Out of Alexey Alexandrovich, the doctor met on the wing with his well-known Ludin, the ruler of the affairs of Alexey Alexandrovich.
They were friends at the university and, although they rarely met, they respected each other and were good friends, and therefore no one like the Man, the doctor would have expressed his open opinion about the sick.
“How I’m glad you’ve been with him,” Slyudin said. He’s bad, and I think...
Well what?
“And that’s what,” said the doctor, putting through the head of the man to his puppy, so that he could give. “There’s what,” said the doctor, taking the finger of a lick gloves in his white hands and stretching it. - Don't stretch the strings and try to break - it's very hard; but stretch up to the last possible and lay the weight of your finger on the stretched strings - it's broken. And he, by his harshness, good faithfulness to work, -- he will stretch to the last degree; and the pressure is stranger, and heavier -- concluded the doctor, significantly lifting the brushes. Are you on racing? He added and went down to the car. “Yes, of course, it takes a lot of time,” the doctor replied something about what the People said and what they did not hear.
Following the doctor that took so much time, a famous traveler appeared, and Alexey Alexandrovich, using the newly read brochure and his previous knowledge of this subject, impressed the traveler with the depth of his knowledge of the subject and the width of an enlightened view.
Together with the traveler was about the arrival of the Governor, who appeared in St. Petersburg and with whom it was necessary to negotiate.
After his departure, it was necessary to complete the work of awakening with the governor of the affairs and it was also necessary to travel on a serious and important matter to one significant person.
Alexey Aleksandrovich only managed to return at five a.m., time of his lunch, and after lunch with the governor of the affairs, invited him to go with him to the dancers and to the runs.
Not giving himself in that report, Alexey Alexandrovich was now looking for the opportunity to have a third person at his dating with his wife.
Anna stood up in front of the mirror, touching with the help of Anushka the last band on the dress when she heard from the entrance the sounds of pressing the wheels.
“For Betty, it’s too early,” she thought and, looking in the window, saw the caret and the black hat hanging out of it and the ears that Alexey Alexandrovich was so familiar to her.
“Well, don’t you want to sleep?” She thought, and she seemed so terrible and terrible all that could come out of it, that she, without a minute of thinking, with a joyful and bright face came out to them, and, feeling in herself the presence of the already known spirit of lies and deception, immediately gave up to that spirit and began to speak, without knowing what to say.
How cute it is! She said, giving her hand to her husband and with a smile healing with the home man, the Man. You are overnight, hopefully? It was the first word that the spirit of deception told her, and now we go together.
I'm sorry that I promised Betty.
She will follow me.
Alexey Aleksandrovich died in the name of Betty.
“Oh, I’m not going to separate the inseparable,” he said in his ordinary tone of joke. We will go with Mikhail Vasilyevich.
The doctor told me to go.
I’m going to pass the road and I’m going to imagine I’m on the waters.
“I don’t go anywhere,” Anna said. Do you want tea? She called.
- Give the tea to tell Seret that Alexey Alexandrovich has come.
What about your health?
Mikhail Vasilyevich, you didn’t have me; see how well I was on the balcony, she said, turning to that, to the other.
She spoke very simple and natural, but too much and too soon.
She herself felt that, especially that in the curious look by which Mikhail Vasilyevich looked at her, she noticed that he seemed to have watched her.
Mikhail Vasilyevich immediately went on the terrace. She sat under her husband.
“You don’t look good,” she said.
“Yes,” he said, “the doctor was now with me and took an hour of time.
I feel that one of my friends has sent him: so precious my health...
No, what did he say?
She asked him about health and classes, agreed to rest and move to her.
All of this she spoke joyfully, quickly and with a special glow in her eyes; but Alexey Alexandrovich now did not attribute any meaning to that tone.
He only heard her words and gave them the direct meaning they had.
And he answered her simply, though jokefully.
In all this conversation there was nothing special, but never after the painful pain of the shame Anna could remember the whole of this short scene.
He was the former governor, the former governor.
If Alexei Aleksandrovich allowed himself to observe, he would notice the wicked, disturbed look with which Sereza looked at his father, and then at his mother.
But he didn’t want to see or see anything.
Oh my young man!
He grew up.
Right, a man is done.
Hello the young man.
And he gave his hand to the scared Serez.
Sereza, and previously stupid in relation to his father, now, after Alexey Alexandrovich began to call him a young man and how the mystery of whether the friend or the enemy of Vronsky came into his head, wondered his father.
He, asking for protection, looked at his mother.
He was good with one mother.
Meanwhile, Alexey Alexandrovich, speaking to the governor, kept his son behind his shoulder, and Serezé was so sadly unpleasant that Anna saw that he was going to cry.
Anna, rednessing at that moment when the son entered, noticing that Serezé was unpleasant, quickly jumped up, raised from the shoulder of the son the hand of Alexey Alexandrovich and, kissing his son, led him to the terrace and immediately returned.
“But it’s time,” she said, looking at her clock, “that Betty doesn’t go!”
- Yes, - said Alexey Alexandrovich and, stood up, put his hands and shocked them. “I went to bring you money, because the salts don’t feed the basins,” he said. I need you, I think.
“No, no need... yes, no need,” she said, without looking at it and red to the roots of the hair. “Yes, I think you’re going to go here with a jump.
Oh yeah! He answered Alexey Alexandrovich. - Here is the beauty of Peterhof, the princess of Tverska, - he added, looking in the window to the entering English, in the shores, the crew with an extremely highly placed small body wheel. What a generosity!
The beauty!
So we go as well.
The princess Tverskaya didn't get out of the crew, but she only jumped at the entrance in sheets, pearls and black hat.
I’m going, say goodbye! - Anna said, and, kissing her son, she came to Alexey Alexandrovich and stretched her hand. You are so nice that you came.
Alexey Alexandrovich kissed her hand.
So until meeting.
You’ll go to drink tea, and it’s great! She said and went out, bright and joyful.
But as soon as she stopped seeing him, she felt the place on her hand, to which his lips were touched, and with hatred she dropped.
When Alexey Aleksandrovich appeared on the races, Anna was already sitting in the discourse next to Betty, in the discourse where the whole higher society was gathered.
She saw her husband far away.
Two men, husband and lover, were for her two centers of life, and without the help of external senses she felt their proximity.
She even distantly felt the approach of her husband and unintentionally followed him in the waves of the crowd between which he was moving.
She saw how he approached the discourse, then humbly responding to the seeking gifts, then friendly, dispersedly healing with the equals, then carefully waiting for the sight of the strong world and removing her round big hat, pressing the ends of his ears.
She knew all these receipts, and all of them were disgusting to her.
“One ambition, one desire to succeed – this is all that is in his soul,” she thought, “and high considerations, love for enlightenment, religion, all this is only a tool to succeed.”
By his eyes on the woman's chat (he looked directly at her, but didn't know the wives in the sea ashes, stripes, pearls, candles and flowers), she realized that he was looking for her; but she did not deliberately notice him.
Alexey Alexandrovich! The princess Betty cried to him, “You don’t see a wife; here is she.”
He smiled with his cold smile.
“There is so much brightness that the eyes have escaped,” he said and went into the conversation.
He smiled to his wife, how his husband should smile, meeting the wife he just met, and greeted the princess and other acquaintances, giving each one the duty, i.e. kissing with the ladies and dismissing the greetings with the men.
At the bottom of the basement stood the respected Alexei Aleksandrovich, known for his mind and education as a general-adjutant.
Alexey Alexandrovich talked to him.
There was a gap between the runs, and therefore nothing interfered with the conversation.
The officer condemned the leap.
Alexey Aleksandrovich opposed, defending them.
Anna listened to his thin, straight voice, without missing one word, and every word of him seemed false to her, and her ear was cut down with pain.
When a four-storey hike with obstacles began, she swallowed forward and, without leaving her eyes, looked at Vronsky who approached the horse and sat down, and at the same time heard that disgusting, untouching voice of her husband.
She suffered by the fear of Vronsky, but even more suffered by the untouched, seemed to her, the sound of the thin voice of her husband with familiar intonations.
“I’m a bad woman, I’m a dead woman,” she thought, “but I don’t like to lie, I don’t tolerate lies, and his food is lies.
He knows everything, he sees everything; what does he feel if he can speak so quietly?
He killed me, he killed Vronsky, I would respect him.
But no, he only needs lies and honesty," Anna told herself, without thinking about what she wanted from her husband, how she wanted to see him.
She didn’t even understand that Alexey Alexandrovich’s present special vocabulary, so irritating her, was just an expression of his inner anxiety and anxiety.
As the murdered child, jumping, leads his muscles into motion to silence the pain, so Alexey Alexandrovich needed a mental movement to silence those thoughts about his wife, who in her presence and in the presence of Vronsky and with the constant repeat of his name demanded attention to himself.
And as the child naturally jumped, he was naturally good and smart to speak.
He said:
The danger in the races of the military, cavalry, is a necessary condition for the races.
If England can point to the most brilliant cavalry affairs in military history, then only because it has historically developed this power of animals and humans.
Sport, in my opinion, is of great importance, and as always we see only the most superficial.
“Not superficial,” said the princess Tverskaya.
One officer, they say, broke two ribs.
Alexey Alexandrovich smiled with his smile, only opening his teeth, but said nothing more.
“Let’s put, princess, that’s not superficial,” he said, “but internal.”
But not that, and he again addressed the general, with whom he spoke seriously, do not forget that the soldiers who have chosen this activity will jump and agree that every call has its turn side of the medal.
This is directly in the duty of the military.
The impeccable sport of the ball battle or the Spanish torraadors is a sign of barbarism. But specialized sports are a sign of development.
“No, I’m not going to go another time; I’m very worried,” Princess Betty said. Is it not true, Anna?
“I’m worried, but I can’t turn away,” another lady said. If I were a Roman, I’t miss a single circle.
Anna didn’t say anything and, without leaving the binocle, looked at one place.
At that time, a high general passed through the conversation.
Stopping the speech, Alexey Alexandrovich quickly, but worthyly stood up and lowly worshiped the passing military.
Do you not jump? A military kidnapped him.
“My leap is harder,” Alexey Aleksandrovich replied respectfully.
And although the answer didn’t mean anything, the military made the appearance that he received a smart word from a smart man and fully understands la pointe de la sauce.
“There are two sides,” continued Alexey Alexandrovich, “the performers and the viewers; and the love of these spectacles is the true sign of low development for the viewers, I agree, but...
The Princess, the Money! A voice from the bottom was heard by Stephan Arkadić addressing Betty. For whom do you hold?
“We and Anna for Prince Kuzovlev,” Betty replied.
I am for Vronsky.
A couple of gloves.
He goes!
How beautiful is it, right?
Alexey Alexandrovich was silent while talking around him, but immediately started again.
“I agree, but courageous games,” he continued.
But at that time the rides were left, and all the talks stopped.
Alexey Alexandrovich was also silent, and everyone went up and turned to the river.
Alexey Aleksandrovich was not interested in jumping and therefore didn’t look at the jumpers, but divertedly began to circumvent the viewers with tired eyes.
His sight stopped on Anne.
Her face was bright and strict.
She obviously saw nothing and no one except one.
Her hand tightened the wind, and she didn’t breathe.
He looked at her and suddenly turned, looking at the other faces.
“Yes, this lady and others are also very excited; it’s very natural,” Alexey Alexandrovich said to himself.
He didn’t want to look at her, but his eyes were unwillingly attracted to her.
He looked again into that face, trying not to read what was so clearly written on it, and, against his will, he scaredly read on it what he did not want to know.
The first fall of Kuzovlev on the river excited everyone, but Alexey Alexandrovich saw clearly on Anna's bright, celebrating face that the one she looked at didn't fall.
When, after Mahotin and Vronsky jumped over the big barrier, the next officer fell right on his head and broke deadly and a horror shore passed through the whole audience, Alexey Alexandrovich saw that Anna didn’t even notice this and hardly understood what they talked about around.
But he increasingly and more often and with greater perseverance looked at it.
Anna, all absorbed by the spectacle of the jumping Vronsky, felt the side of her husband’s cold eyes.
She looked for a moment, questionedly looked at him and, slightly swallowed, turned again.
“Oh, I don’t care,” he said, as if she didn’t look at him again.
The jump was unhappy, and more than half of the 17 people fell and broke down.
At the end of the leap all were in anxiety, which increased even more by the fact that the ruler was dissatisfied.
Everyone expressed their disapproval loudly, everyone repeated someone's phrase: "There's no circus with the lions," and the horror was felt by everyone, so that when Vronsky fell and Anna loudly swallowed, there was nothing unusual in it.
But after that, there was a change in Anna's face, which was already positively unpleasant.
She was completely lost.
She started fighting like a captured bird: she wanted to get up and go somewhere, she turned to Betty.
“We’re going, we’re going,” she said.
But Betty did not hear her.
She spoke, turning down, with the general coming to her.
Alexey Alexandrovich approached Anna and gently gave her the hand. “Let’s go, if you want,” he said in French, but Anna listened to what the general said, and she didn’t notice her husband.
“He also broke his leg,” said the general. It doesn’t look like anything.
Anna, not answering to her husband, raised the binocle and looked at the place where Vronsky fell; but it was so far and there was so many people that nothing could be understood.
She dropped the binocle and wanted to go; but at that time the officer jumped and something to the state.
Anna went forward, listening.
Stay is!
Stay is! She screamed to her brother.
But my brother did not hear her.
She wanted to go out again.
“I offer you my hand again, if you want to go,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, touching her hand.
She turned away from him with hatred and, not looking at him in the face, replied:
No, leave me, I will stay.
She saw now that from the place of the fall of Vronsky through the circle a officer fled to the baseball.
Betty was paying him.
The officer brought the news that the rider was not killed, but the horse broke his back.
Hearing this, Anna quickly sat down and closed her face with a veer.
Alexey Alexandrovich saw that she was crying and couldn’t hold not only tears, but also wrinkles that raised her chest.
Alexey Alexandrovich gave her time to recover.
“For the third time I offer you my hand,” he said after a while, turning to her.
Anna looked at him and didn’t know what to say.
Princess Betty came to help her.
“No, Alexey Alexandrovich, I took Anna and I promised to take her away,” Betty interfered.
“Sorry to me, princess,” he said, smiling carefully, but looking firmly in her eyes, “but I see that Anna is not quite healthy, and I wish her to go with me.
Anna looked scared, stood up and placed her hand on her husband's hand.
“I’m going to send him, I’m going to know and I’m going to say,” Betty screamed.
At the exit of the conversation, Alexey Alexandrovich, as always, talked to the meters, and Anna was, as always, to answer and speak; but she was not her own and as in a dream she went hand in hand with her husband.
Killed or not?
Is it true?
Will it come or not?
Will I see him now?” She thought.
She silently sat in Alexey Alexandrovich's car and silently left the crowd of crew.
Despite everything he saw, Alexey Alexandrovich nevertheless allowed himself to think about his wife’s actual situation.
He only saw external signs.
He saw that she was behaving uncomfortable, and he thought it was his duty to tell her that.
But it was hard for him not to say more, but to say only that.
He opened his mouth to tell her how uncomfortable she behaved, but unintentionally said a completely different thing.
“How, however, we are all inclined to these brutal spectacles,” he said. I notice...
What? I don’t understand, said Anna negligently.
He was insulted and immediately began to say what he wanted.
“I have to tell you,” he said.
“This is the explanation,” she thought, and she was scared.
“I have to tell you that you’re behaving uncomfortable today,” he told her in French.
What did I behave unfairly? She said loudly, quickly turning her head to him and looking at him right in the eyes, but no longer with the former hiding joy, but with the decisive sight under which she was hard to hide the fear experienced.
“Don’t forget,” he told her, pointing to the open window against the puppy. He went up and lifted the glass.
What do you find uncomfortable? She repeated
The disappointment you did not know how to hide when one of the rides fell.
He was waiting for her to object; but she was silent, looking in front of her.
I have already asked you to keep yourself in light so that evil languages could not say anything against you.
There was a time when I was talking about internal relationships; I’m not talking about them.
I am talking about external relations.
You kept yourself unpleasant, and I would like it not to repeat.
She did not hear the half of his words, she was afraid of him and thought about whether it was true that Vronsky was not killed.
Did they say he was a target and the horse broke his back?
She only smiled and laughed when he ended up, and nothing answered because she didn’t hear what he said.
Alexey Alexandrovich began to speak boldly, but when he clearly understood what he was talking about, the fear she experienced told him.
He saw that smile, and a strange mistake found on him.
She smiles over my suspicions.
Yes, she will now say what she told me that time: that there is no reason for my suspicion that it’s funny.”
Now that the discovery of everything was hanging upon him, he didn’t desire anything as much as that she, as before, laughingly answered him that his suspicions are ridiculous and have no reason.
It was so terrible that he knew that now he was ready to believe everything.
But the expression of her face, scared and dark, now has not promised even a betrayal.
“Maybe I’m wrong,” he said. In that case, I ask you to apologize.
“No, you’re not wrong,” she said slowly, desperately looking at her cold face. You have not mistaken.
I was and cannot be without disappointment.
I listen to you and think about it.
I love him, I am his lover, I can’t tolerate, I fear, I hate you...
Do with me what you want.
And, dropped in the corner of the car, she stumbled, closing her hands.
Alexey Aleksandrovich did not move and did not change the direct direction of view. But all his face suddenly accepted the solemn immobility of the dead, and this expression did not change throughout the journey to the day.
When he came into the house, he turned his head to her with the same expression.
Yes yes!
But I ask for the observance of the external conditions of honour so long as – his voice stumbled – I take measures to ensure my honour, and I will communicate them to you.
He went forward and put it out.
In view of the servants, he grew her silent hand, sat in the car and went to St. Petersburg.
Following him came a laquee from the princess Betty and brought Anne a note:
“I sent Alexey to know about his health, and he writes to me that he is healthy and a goal, but in despair.”
“It’s going to be so!” she thought. “How good I did that I told him everything.”
She looked at the clock.
Three hours left, and the memories of the details of the last date burned her blood.
“My God, as light!
It’s terrible, but I love seeing his face and I love this fantastic light...
The husband! Oh yeah...
And thank God that everything has ended with him.”
As in all places where people gather, as well as in the small German waters where the Scherbatzians arrived, a normal crystallization of society was carried out, determining each member a certain and unchanged place.
As certain and constantly the particle of water in the cold receives a certain shape of snow crystal, so exactly every new face coming to the water was immediately established in its own place.
Furst Scherbatsky cast of hemalin and tochter, and by the apartment they occupied, and by the name, and by the acquaintance they found, they immediately crystallized into their specified and intended place.
On the waters this year was a real German furtin, which resulted in the crystallization of society made even more energetic.
The princess wanted to present her daughter to the princess, and on the other day she made this ritual.
Kitty lowly and graciously settled in her drawn from Paris, a very simple, i.e. very wearable summer dress.
The princess said, "I hope that the roses will soon return to this beautiful face," and for Scherbatsky immediately solidly established certain ways of life, from which it was no longer possible to get out.
Щербацкие met both the family of the English lady, and the German cousin, and her wounded son in the last war, and the Swedish scientist, and M. Canut and his sister.
But the main society of the Scherbacks involuntaryly consisted of the Moscow lady, Maria Evgenievna Rtiščova, with a daughter who was unpleasant to Kitty because she was sick as she, from love, and the Moscow Colonel whom Kitty from childhood saw and knew in the monder and epilets, and who here, with his small eyes and with an open neck in a colour, was unusually mixed and tired of what was impossible to separate from him.
When all this was so firmly established, Kitty became very bored, especially that the prince went to Karlsbad and she remained alone with her mother.
She was not interested in those she knew, feeling that nothing new will be from them.
Her main thrilled interest in the waters was now observations and guesses of those she did not know.
According to her character, Kitty has always assumed the most beautiful thing in people, and especially in those she didn’t know.
And now, guessing who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who—who
Of such persons, she was occupied by one Russian girl who came to the water with a sick Russian lady, Madame Stall, as she was all called.
Madame Stall belonged to the superior community, but she was so painful that she couldn’t walk, and only in rare good days she appeared on the waters in a wheelchair.
But not so much by illness, but by pride, as the princess explained, Madame Stall was not familiar with any of the Russians.
The Russian girl cared for Mrs. Stall and, in addition, as she noticed by Kitty, fell with all the heavily sick, who were a lot on the waters, and cared for them in the most natural way.
This Russian girl, according to Kitty’s observations, was not a parent of Madame Stall and was not a rented assistant.
Madame Stall evaded her Varenka, while others called "m-lle Varenka".
Not to mention that Kitty was interested in observing the relationship of this girl with Mrs. Stall and other unfamiliar faces, Kitty, as it often happens, felt an inexplicable sympathy to this m-lle Varenka and felt in the gathering views that she also liked.
M-lle Varenka this was not what was not the first youth, but as a being without youth: it could be given to her even nineteenth and thirty years.
If you understand her features, she, despite the painful color of her face, was more beautiful than bad.
It would be well composed if not too high body dryness and disproportionate head by average growth; but it shouldn’t be attractive for men.
It looked like a beautiful, though still full of sheets, but already flowered, without the smell of flowers.
Furthermore, she couldn’t be attractive to men even because she lacked what was too much in China—the shut down fire of life and the consciousness of her attractiveness.
She always seemed busy in a matter in which there could be no doubt, and therefore it seemed that she could not be interested in anything foreign.
This opposite, she especially attracted Kitty to herself.
Kitty feels that in her, in her composition of life, she will find a pattern of what she is now sadly looking for: the interests of life, the dignity of life - beyond Kitty's disgusting secular relations of the girl to the men, which now represented her as a shameful exhibition of the goods waiting for buyers.
The more Kitty observed her unknown friend, the more she was convinced that this girl is the perfect creature she imagined, and the more she wanted to get to know her.
Both girls met several times a day, and at each meeting, Kitty’s eyes said, “Who are you? What are you?
Are you the beautiful creature I imagine you?
But for the sake of God do not think, — added her sight, — that I allow myself to be imposed on acquaintances.
I just love you and love you.” “I love you too, and you are very, very cute.
And I’d love you even more if I had time,” the look of an unknown girl replied.
Indeed, Kitty has seen that she’s always busy: either she’s bringing the children of a Russian family out of the water, or she’s carrying a plate for the sick and turning her, or she’s trying to entertain an irritated sick, or she’s choosing and buying a cake for coffee for someone.
Shortly after the arrival of Scherbatsky on the morning waters appeared another two persons, who turned to themselves a common unfriendly attention.
These were: a very high coated man with huge hands, in short, not growing, and a old jacket, with black, naive and together terrible eyes, and a crazy gentle woman, very badly and tastelessly dressed.
Recognising these persons as Russians, Kiti has already begun in his imagination to make a beautiful and touching novel about them.
But when the princess learned from Kurliste that it was Levin Nicholas and Mary Nicholas, she explained to Kitty how bad man this Levin was, and all the dreams of these two faces disappeared.
Not so much because the mother told her how much because it was the brother of Constantine, for Kitty these faces suddenly seemed to be extremely unpleasant.
This Levin raised in her now with her habit to be subjected to the head to an unbearable sense of hatred.
She seemed to have a sense of hatred and laughter in her big and terrible eyes, which were constantly watching her, and she tried to avoid meeting him.
It was an unpleasant day, the rain went all morning, and the sick with zombies crowded in the gallery.
Kitty walked with her mother and with the Moscow Colonel, having fun in her European, purchased ready in Frankfurt.
They walked on one side of the gallery, trying to avoid Levin walking on the other side.
The cowboy, in her dark dress, in black, with the underlying fields of hat, walked with a blind French woman throughout the gallery, and every time she met Kitty, they wandered with a friendly look.
Mama, can I talk to her? - said Kitty, following her strange friend and noticing that she is approaching the key and that they can get to him.
“Yes, if you want it, I’ll know about it first and I’ll get to it myself,” the mother answered. What did you find special in it?
The companion must be.
If you want, I will meet Mrs. Stall.
I knew her belle-soeur, added the princess, proudly lifting her head.
Kitty knew that the princess was insulted by the fact that Mrs. Stall seemed to avoid meeting her.
Kitty did not insist.
What a miracle, how cute! She said, looking at Varenka, while she gave a glass to a French woman. Look how simple it is, cute.
“I’m tired of your engouements,” the princess said, “no, let’s go better back,” she added, noticing Levin moving towards them with her lady and the German doctor with whom he was talking something loud and angry.
They turned to go back, as suddenly they heard no longer a loud speech, but a scream.
Levin stopped and cried, and the doctor was also hot.
Tolls gathered around them.
The princess and Kitty quickly went away, and the colonel joined the crowd to find out what it was about.
A few minutes later, the colonel caught them.
What was that there? The princess asked.
Shame and shame! The Colonel replied. One thing you are afraid is to meet with the Russians abroad.
This high gentleman defended with the doctor, sentenced him courage for the fact that he did not treat him so, and stumbled with a palm.
Shame is simple!
— Oh, how unpleasant! — said the princess. What has ended?
“Thank you, this... this in the hat with the fungus. The Russian, it seems, said the Colonel.
Is it a Varenka? He asked Kitty gladly.
Yes yes.
She found more than everybody, she took this master under the hand and caught it.
“Behold, mom,” Kitty said, “you’re surprised that I admire her.
From the next day, watching an unknown friend, Kitty noticed that M-lle Varenka and with Levin and his wife are already in the same relationship as with others their proteges.
She approached them, spoke, served as a translator for a woman who could not speak any foreign language.
Kitty even more began to ask her mother to let her meet Varenka. And, no matter how unpleasant it was for the princess as if she made the first step in the desire to get to know Mrs. Stall, allowing herself something to be proud, she brought the evidence of Varenka and, having learned about her the details that made the conclusion that there was nothing good, though good little, in this meeting, the first one came to Varenka and met her.
Choosing the time when her daughter went to the key, and Varenka stopped against the bullshit, the princess approached her.
“Let me meet you,” she said with her decent smile. “My daughter is in love with you,” she said. You may not know me.
I...
“It’s more than one another, princess,” Varenka quickly answered.
What a good thing you did yesterday to our sad fellow! The princess said.
The kitchen was red.
“I don’t remember, I don’t seem to have done anything,” she said.
How did you save this Levin from trouble?
- Yes, sa compagne called me, and I tried to calm him: he was very sick and unhappy with the doctor.
I have the habit of following these patients.
“Yes, I’ve heard you’re living in Menton with your grandmother, it seems m-me Stall.
I knew her belle-soeur.
She is not my aunt.
I call her mom, but I am not her parent; I was raised by her, again red, Varenka answered.
It was so simple to say, so nice was the true and open expression of her face that the princess understood why her Kitty loved this Varenka.
What is this Levin? The princess asked.
“He’s going away,” Varenka replied.
At that time, glowing with the joy that her mother met her unknown friend, Kitty approached the key.
Well, Kitty, your strong desire to get to know Mademoiselle...
“Varenko,” said Varenko, smiling, “this is how everyone calls me.
Kitty was red of joy and long silently regretted the hand of her new friend, who did not respond to her regret, but still lie in her hand.
The hand did not respond to the anger, but the face of M-lle Varenka glowed with a quiet, joyful, although a slightly sad smile, opening up big but beautiful teeth.
“I wanted it for a long time,” she said.
You are so busy...
“Oh, on the contrary, I’m not busy,” Varenka replied, but at the same moment she had to leave her new acquaintances, because two little Russian girls, the daughters of the sick, fled to her.
My mom calls! They screamed...
And Warrenka followed them.
The details that the princess learned about the passed Varenka and her relationships with Mrs. Stall and the same Mrs. Stall were as follows.
Madame Stall, about whom some said she had tortured her husband and others said he had tortured her with her immoral behavior, was always a painful and enthusiastic woman.
When she was born, having divorced her husband, the first child, this child immediately died, and the relatives of Mrs. Stall, knowing her sensitivity and afraid that this news would not kill her, replaced her the child, taking the daughter of the courtyard chef who was born the same night and in the same house in St. Petersburg.
It was a barbecue.
Madame Stall later learned that Varenka was not her daughter, but continued to raise her, especially that very soon after this family, Varenka had no one left.
Madame Stall has lived abroad in the south for more than a decade, never standing up from bed.
And some said that Madame Stall made herself a social position of a virtuous, high-religious woman; others said that she was in the soul the highest moral being, living only for the good of the neighbor as she was.
No one knew what religion it was — Catholic, Protestant or Orthodox; but one thing was undoubtedly — it was in friendly ties with the highest persons of all churches and confessions.
Varenka lived with her constantly abroad, and everyone who knew Madame Stall knew and loved M-lle Varenka, as everyone called her.
Knowing all these details, the princess did not find anything prejudicable in the approximation of her daughter with Varenka, especially that Varenka had the best ways and education: she spoke perfectly in French and English, and the most important thing - she transmitted from Mrs. Stall the regret that she was deprived of the pleasure of getting to know the princess.
When she met Varenka, Kitty was more and more enthusiastic about her friend and every day she found new merits in her.
The princess, after hearing that Varenka is well singing, asked her to come to them to sing in the evening.
“Kitty is playing, and we have a fortepiano, bad thing, right, but you’ll give us a great pleasure,” the princess said with her narrow smile, which was unpleasant now to Kitty, because she noticed that Varenka didn’t want to sing.
But Varenka, however, came in the evening and brought with her a notebook.
The princess invited Mary Evgenievna with her daughter and the colonel.
Varenka seemed completely indifferent to the fact that there were unfamiliar faces here, and immediately approached the fortepiano.
She didn’t know how to accompany, but she read the notes very well.
Kitty, who played well, accompanied her.
“You have an unusual talent,” the princess told her after Varenka sang the first play.
Maria Evgenievna and her daughter thanked and praised her.
“Look,” said the colonel, looking in the window, “which audience was gathered to listen to you. A large crowd was gathered under the windows.
“I’m so glad that it gives you pleasure,” Varenka just replied.
Kitty was proud to look at her friend.
She admired her art, and her voice, and her face, but most of all admired her manner, by the fact that Varenka obviously didn’t think anything about her singing and was completely indifferent to praise; she seemed to ask only: is it enough to sing, or enough?
“If it were me,” Kitty thought, “how I would be proud of it!
How glad I was looking at the crowd under the windows!
And she does not matter anyway.
She only encourages the desire not to refuse and make a pleasant mother.
What is there in it?
What gives her this power to ignore everyone, to be independent?
How much I would like to know this and learn from her," Kitty thought, looking into this quiet face.
The princess asked Varenka to sing again, and Varenka sang the other play equally straight, clearly and well, standing right at the fortepiano and throwing the tact on it with her thin thin hand.
The next post was the Italian song.
Kitty played a prelude and looked at Varenka.
— Let’s miss this — said Varenka reddening.
Kitty scared and questioningly stopped her eyes on Varenka's face.
“Well, another,” she said quickly, turning the letters and immediately realizing that something was connected to this play.
- No, - answered Varenka, put his hand on the notes and smiled, - no, put it together. And she sang it as calmly, cold and well as before.
When she finished, everyone thanked her again and went to drink tea.
The kites with Varenka went out to the garden, formerly under the house.
Do you have any memories associated with this song? Kitty said. “You don’t say,” she added quickly, “just say, right?
No, why not?
I’ll say, — just said Varenka and, not waiting for the answer, continued, — Yes, it’s a memory, and it’s been hard once.
I loved one man. This thing I singed to him.
Kitty with open big eyes silently, gently looked at Varenka.
I loved him, and he loved me; but his mother did not want him, and he married another.
He now lives near us, and I sometimes see him.
Did you not think I had a novel too? She said, and in her beautiful face a little broke the fire that, Kitty felt, once illuminated her all.
How did you not think?
If I were a man, I’t love anyone after I met you.
I just don’t understand how he could forget you and make you unhappy; he didn’t have a heart.
“No, he’s a very good man, and I’m not unhappy; on the contrary, I’m very happy.
Will we not sing anymore? She added and went to the house.
— How good you are, how good you are! — screamed Kitty and, stopped her, kissed her. If I could be a little like you!
Why do you look like someone?
You are good as you are – smiling with your gentle and tired smile, said Varenka.
No, I am not good at all.
Tell me...
Stay, we’re sitting,” Kitty said, putting her again on the box under her. Say, don't it be offensive to think that a man has neglected your love, that he didn't want?
He did not ignore; I believe he loved me, but he was a obedient son.
Yes, but if he was not by the will of the mother, but simply, himself? She told Kitty, feeling that she had revealed her secret and that her face, burning with a rumenish shame, had already revealed her.
“Then he would do a bad thing, and I’t regret him,” Varenka replied, clearly realizing that it’s not about her, but about Kitty.
But the insult? Kitty said. “The harassment cannot be forgotten, the harassment cannot be forgotten,” she said, remembering her look at the last ball, while the music stopped.
What is insult?
Did you not do bad?
Worse than bad, I’m ashamed.
Varenka climbed her head and placed her hand on Kitty's hand.
What is it shameful for? She said. You could not tell the man who is indifferent to you that you love him?
Of course, no; I never said a word, but he knew.
No, no, there are views, there are ways.
I will live a hundred years, I will not forget.
So what?
I don’t understand.
The matter is whether you love him now or not, said Varenka, calling everything by name.
I hate him; I cannot forgive myself.
So what?
Shame and insult.
“Oh, if all were like you, sensitive,” said Varenka. There is no girl who would not experience this.
And all this is so irrelevant.
What is important? She asked Kitty, looking into her face with curiosity.
“Oh, it’s very important,” said Varenka, smiling.
“Oh, much more important,” Varenka replied, without knowing what to say. But at that time, the voice of the princess was heard from the window:
Kitty is fresh!
Or take a shal, or go to the room.
Yes, it is time! – said Varenka, standing up.
I have to go to Mrs. Berthe; she asked me.
Kitty kept her in the hand and with passionate curiosity and prayer asked her with a look: "What, what is the most important thing that gives such peace?
You know, tell me!”
But Varenka didn’t even understand what Kitty asked about.
She only remembered that now she had to go to m-me Verthe and sing home to the tea of mom, at twelve a.m.
She went into the rooms, gathered notes, and, saying goodbye to everyone, gathered to go.
“Let me lead you,” said the colonel.
How can one go tonight? confirmed by the princess. I will send a parachute.
Kitty saw that Varenka was hard to keep a smile with the words that she had to be driven.
“No, I’m always walking alone, and nothing happens to me,” she said, taking the hat.
And, kissing Kitty again and so never said what was important, with a vigorous step, with notes under the mouse, she hid in the middle of the summer night, carrying her secret about what is important and what gives her this jealous calm and dignity.
Kitty also met Mrs. Stall, and this dating along with the friendship with Varenka not only had a strong influence on her, but comforted her in her mountain.
She found this comfort in the fact that, thanks to this acquaintance, she opened a completely new world, which has nothing to do with her past, a world elevated, beautiful, from the height of which it was possible to look quietly to this past.
She revealed that, in addition to the instinctive life that still was given to Kitty, life was spiritual.
This life was revealed by a religion, but by a religion that had nothing to do with that which Kitty had known since childhood and which was expressed in the lunch and all night in the Widow House, where you could meet acquaintances, and in the study of Slavic texts with your father-in-law; it was a religion elevated, mysterious, associated with a number of beautiful thoughts and feelings, which could not only be believed, because it was said so, but which could be loved.
Kitty knew it all not by words.
Madame Stall spoke to Kitty, as to the sweet child you love, as to remind you of your youth, and only once mentioned that in all human anger comfort only gives love and faith, and that there are no unnecessary anger to compassion with us Christ, and immediately translated the conversation into another.
But in every movement, in every word, in every heaven, as Kitty called, in her look, especially in the whole history of her life, which she knew through Varenka, in everything she knew what was “important” and what she had not yet known.
But no matter how elevated the character of Madame Stall was, no matter how touching her whole story, no matter how elevated and gentle her speech, Kitty accidentally noticed in her the traits that disturbed her.
She noticed that, asking about her relatives, Mrs. Stall smiled negligently, which was contrary to Christian kindness.
She also noticed that when she stood with her a Catholic priest, Madame Stall carefully kept her face in the shadow of the abjura and smiled.
No matter how meaningless these two remarks were, they disturbed her, and she doubted Madame Stall.
But Varenka, alone, without relatives, without friends, with sad disappointment, not desiring anything, not regretting anything, was the same perfection that she only allowed herself to dream of Kitty.
At Varenka she realized that it was worth just forgetting herself and loving others, and you will be calm, happy and beautiful.
That was what Kitty wanted to be.
Now clearly understood what was the most important thing, Kitty was not pleased to admire it, but immediately with all her soul gave up this new, opened life to her.
According to Varenka's stories about what she did to Mrs. Stall and others she called, Kitty has already made herself a happy plan for a future life.
She, like Mrs. Stall's grandmother, Aline, about whom Varenka has told her a lot, will, wherever she lives, find the unfortunate, help and as much as possible, distribute the Gospel, read the Gospel to the sick, the criminals who die.
The idea of reading the Gospel to the criminals, as Aline did, especially overwhelmed Kitty.
But all these were secret dreams that Kitty did not tell any mother or Varenka.
However, waiting for time to fulfill their plans in large sizes, Kitty and now, on the waters where there were so many sick and unhappy, easily found an opportunity to apply its new rules, imitating Varenka.
At first, the princess only noticed that Kitty was under the strong influence of her engouement, as she called, to Mrs. Stall and in particular to Varenka.
She saw that Kitty not only imitates Varenka in her activities, but involuntaryly imitates her in her way of walking, speaking, and blinking with her eyes.
But then the princess noticed that in her daughter, regardless of this charm, some serious mental revolt was undertaken.
The princess saw that Kitty read in the evening the French gospel that Mrs. Stall gave her, which she had not done before; that she escaped secular acquaintances and walked with the sick who were under the protection of Varenka, and especially with a poor family of the sick painter Petrov.
Kitty was obviously proud to fulfill the duty of the sister of mercy in this family.
All this was good, and the princess had nothing against it, especially that the wife of Petrov was a pretty decent woman and that the princess, observing the activities of Kitty, praised her, calling her a comforting angel.
It would be good if there were no excesses.
And the princess saw that her daughter was falling into the extreme, that she told her.
“Il ne faut jamais rien outrer,” she told her.
But the daughter did not answer her anything; she only thought in her soul that it was not possible to talk about excess in the matter of Christianity.
What can be the excess in following the teaching, in which it is commanded to put the other shoulder when they hit one, and to give the shirt when they remove the coat?
But the princess didn’t like this excess, and even more didn’t like what, she felt, Kitty didn’t want to open her all her soul.
Indeed, Kitty hidden from her mother her new views and feelings.
She hid them not because she didn’t respect, didn’t love her mother, but only because she was her mother.
She would open them to everyone more than her mother.
“There was something that Anna Pavlovna had not been with us for a long time,” the princess once said about Petrova. I called her.
And she’s something as if she’s dissatisfied.
“No, I didn’t notice, mom,” Kitty said.
Have you not been with them for a long time?
“We’re going to make a walk in the mountains tomorrow,” Kitty replied.
The princess answered, looking into the disturbed face of the daughter and trying to figure out the cause of her disturbance.
On the same day, Varenka came to lunch and told that Anna Pavlovna thought to go to the mountains tomorrow.
And the princess noticed that Kitty was red again.
- Kitty, did you have something unpleasant with the Petrus? The princess said they were alone. Why did she stop sending the children and going to us?
Kitty replied that there was nothing between them and that she definitely doesn’t understand why Anna Pavlovna seems unhappy with her.
Kitty answered the perfect truth. She didn’t know the reasons for the change to herself by Anna Pavlovna, but she guessed.
She guessed something she couldn’t say to her mother, which she didn’t say to herself.
It was one of those things you know, but you can’t even say to yourself; it’s so scary and ashamed to be wrong.
She again and again recalled in her memory all her relationships with this family.
She remembered the naive joy expressed on the round gentle face of Anna Pavlovna during their meetings; she remembered their secret talks about the sick, the conspiracy that to withdraw him from the work that was forbidden to him, to bring him to walk; the attachment of a smaller boy who called her "my Kitty", who didn't want to sleep without her.
How everything was good!
Then she remembered the weak and bad figure of Petrov with his long neck, in his brown shirt; his rare shining hair, questionable, terrible in the first time for Kitty blue eyes and his painful efforts to look vibrant and vibrant in her presence.
She remembered her efforts in the first time to overcome the hatred she experienced to him, as well as to all the troubled, and the efforts she thought to say to him.
She remembered that stupid, humiliated look he looked at her, and the strange sense of compassion and discomfort, and then the consciousness of her virtue that she experienced at the same time.
How good was it all!
But all this was the first time.
Now, a few days ago, everything suddenly collapsed.
Anna Pavlovna met Kitty with compassion and continually observed her and her husband.
Was this touching joy of his approach the cause of the cooling of Anna Pavlovna?
“Yes,” she recalled, “was something unnatural in Anna Pavlovna and completely unlike her kindness, when she said on the third day with annoyance, “Hey, everything was waiting for you, I didn’t want to drink coffee without you, though weakened terribly.”
“Yes, maybe, and it was unpleasant to her when I gave him a blade.
It was so simple, but he was so uncomfortable to accept it, so long thanked that it was uncomfortable to me too.
And then this portrait that he made so well.
And the most important thing is that look, disturbed and gentle!
Yes, yes, it’s so! – Kitty repeated with horror. No, it cannot, it should not be!
He is so regretted!” She talked to herself after that.
This doubt poisoned the beauty of her new life.
Already before the end of the water course, the prince Scherbatsky, who travelled after Karlsbad to Baden and Kissingen to the Russian acquaintances to get the Russian spirit, as he said, returned to his own.
The views of the prince and the princess on foreign life were completely opposite.
The princess found everything beautiful and, despite her firm position in the Russian society, tried to go abroad for a European lady than she was, because she was a Russian barney, and therefore pretended that she was partially uncomfortable.
The prince, on the contrary, found all the evil abroad, attracted the European life, kept his Russian habits and intentionally tried to show himself abroad less European than he was in reality.
The prince returned weakened, with covered bags of skin on the shoulder, but in the most joyful position of the spirit.
His fun position increased even more when he saw Kitty completely recovering.
The news of Kitty's friendship with Mrs. Stall and Varenka and the princess's observation of some change that happened in Kitty, disturbed the prince and raised in him the usual sense of jealousy of everything that attracted his daughter besides him, and the fear that the daughter would not go out of his influence into any areas unavailable to him.
But these unpleasant news drowned into the sea of kindness and joy that was always in it, and especially strengthened by the Karlsbad waters.
On the other day after his arrival, the prince in his long jacket, with his Russian frogs and tightened frogs, underwrapped crushed frogs, in the most joyful location of the spirit went with his daughter to the water.
The morning was beautiful; the busy, joyful houses with gardens, the appearance of rednesses, rednesses, beer-filled and joyful German servants and the bright sun thrilled their hearts; but the closer they approached the waters, the more often they met the sick, and their appearance seemed even more angry among the usual conditions of the well-established German life.
Kitty was no longer impressed by this opposite.
The bright sun, the joyful glow of the green, the sound of music were for her the natural framework of all these acquaintances and the change to the deterioration or improvement she followed; but for the prince the light and glow of the June morning and the sound of the orchestra playing the fashionable joyful valse, and the appearance of healthy servants seemed somewhat unpleasant and ugly in conjunction with those gathered from all the ends of Europe, deceived by the moving dead.
Despite his feelings of pride and the return of youth, when his beloved daughter walked with him, he was now as if unpleasant and conscious for his strong walk, for his great, fat-filled members.
He experienced almost a sense of a person untouched in society.
“Imagine, introduce me to your new friends,” he said to his daughter, pressing her hand. “I and your foolish Soden loved you because he did you so.
Sad to you, sad to you.
Who is it?
Chita called him the acquainted and unknown faces they met.
At the entrance to the garden they met the blind m-me Berthe with the guide, and the prince was delighted with the pleasant expression of the old French woman when she heard the voice of Kitty.
She immediately talked to him with a French excess of kindness, praising him for having such a beautiful daughter, and in her eyes passed to the heavens of Kitty, calling her a treasure, a pearl, and an angel of comfort.
“Well, she’s the second angel,” said the prince smiling. She calls the angel number one Mademoiselle Varenka.
Oh oh! M-lle Varenka — it’s a real angel, alllez, — captured m-me Berthe.
In the gallery they encountered Varenka.
She quickly went to meet them, wearing an elegant red suitcase.
- Here's my dad! - said Kitty to her.
Varenka made a simple and natural move, like everything she did, the medium between worship and attendance, and immediately spoke to the prince, as she spoke to everyone, untouched and simple.
“Naturally, I know you, I know you very much,” the prince told her with a smile, after which Kitty was glad to know that her friend liked her father. Where are you so hurry?
“Mama is here,” she said, turning to Kitty. She didn’t sleep all night, and the doctor advised her to leave.
I bring her work.
— So this is the angel number one! — said the prince when Varenka left.
Kitty saw that he wanted to laugh at Varenka, but that he could not do that because Varenka liked him.
“Behold, we will see all your friends,” he added, “and Madame Stall, if she deserves to know me. The fire of a laughter burned in the eyes of the prince when he mentioned Madame Stall.
I knew her husband and her a little before she joined the piano.
What is a pianist, Daddy? She left Kitty, already afraid that what she so highly appreciated in Mrs. Stall had a name.
I myself do not know well.
I know only that she will thank God for everything, for every misfortune, and for the death of her husband, she will thank God.
It’s funny because they’ve lived badly. Who is this?
What a sad face! he asked, when he noticed a sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick.
The Lord lifted his slumed hat over his winging rare hair, opening up a high, painfully redheaded head from the hat.
“This is Peter, the painter,” Kitty answered, reddening. “And this is his wife,” she added, pointing to Anna Pavlovna, who, as if deliberately, at the same time they approached, went for the child who fled on the road.
“How sad, and how cute his face!” said the prince. What did you not come?
He wanted to tell you something?
“Well, let’s come,” Kitty said, turning strongly. How is your health today? She asked Peter.
Peter stood up, relying on the palm, and sleptly looked at the prince.
“This is my daughter,” said the prince. Let me be familiar.
The painter worshipped and smiled, opening out strangely bright white teeth.
“We’ve been waiting for you yesterday, Princess,” he told Kitty.
He swallowed, saying this, and, repeating this movement, he tried to show that he did it intentionally.
“I wanted to come, but Varenka said that Anna Pavlovna sent to say that you won’t go.
How do we not go? - Red and suddenly crazy, said Petrov, looking for his wife with his eyes. - Annette, Annette! - he spoke loudly, and on his thin white neck, like wheels, thick wheels were stretched.
Anna Pavlovna came.
How did you tell the prince that we will not go? After losing his voice, he shouted irritably.
Hello the princess! - said Anna Pavlovna with a narrow smile, so unlike her previous treatment. “It was a great pleasure to meet,” she addressed the prince. I’ve been waiting for you a long time, Prince.
How did you tell the prince that we will not go? The painter screamed again more anger, obviously angry even more by the fact that the voice changes him and he can’t give his speech the expression he wants.
Oh my God!
I thought we didn’t go — my wife answered boredly.
“When... he wiped up and pulled his hand. The prince lifted up his hat and left with his daughter.
Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh! He breathed hard, oh unhappy!
“Yes, Daddy,” Kitty answered. But you need to know that they have three children, no servants and almost no means.
He receives something from the Academy, — she lively talked, trying to hide the excitement raised in it as a result of Anna Pavlovna’s strange change to her.
“But here is Madame Stall,” Kitty said, pointing to the wheelchair, in which something, covered with pants, in something gray and blue, was lying under the wheelchair.
It was Mrs. Stall.
Behind her stood a dark, healthy German worker who caught her.
On the ground stood a white-course Swedish Count, whom she knew by the name of Kitty.
A few patients slowed around the wheel, looking at this lady as something unusual.
The prince came to her. And immediately in his eyes Kitty noticed her disturbing flame of laughter.
He approached Mrs. Stall and spoke in that great French language, in which so few people are speaking now, extremely gentle and gentle.
“I don’t know if you remember me, but I have to remember myself to thank you for your kindness to my daughter,” he said, taking the hat and not wearing it.
- Prince Alexander Scherbatsky, - said Mrs. Stall, lifting his heavenly eyes on him, in which Kitty noticed dissatisfaction. very pleased.
I loved your daughter so much.
Your health is bad?
“Yes, I’m accustomed,” said Mrs. Stall and met the prince with the Swedish Count.
“And you’ve changed very little,” the prince told her. I had no honor to see you for ten or eleven years.
God gives the cross and gives the power to carry it.
You are often wondering what this life is going to do...
From that side! - She turned to Varenka with boredness, not so turning her foot.
“To do good, probably,” said the prince, laughing with his eyes.
“It’s not to judge us,” said Mrs. Stall, seeing the shade of the expression on the prince’s face. Do you send me this book, dear Count?
Thank you very much, she addressed the young Swedish.
A! The prince screamed, saw the Moscow Colonel standing near, and, worshipping Mrs. Stall, went away with his daughter and with the Moscow Colonel who joined them.
This is our aristocracy, prince! - With the desire to be laughing, the Moscow Colonel, who was in claim against Mrs. Stall, said that she was not familiar with him.
“Everything is the same,” the prince replied.
And you knew her before she was sick, prince, that is, before she went down?
and yes. She came to me, said the prince.
She says she will not stand up for 10 years.
It doesn’t stand up because it’s short.
It is very badly composed.
Dad, it cannot be! She hotly opposed Kitty. Barry loves her.
And then she does so much good!
Who you want to ask!
She and Aline Stall all know.
“Maybe,” he said, pressing his hand. But it is better when they do what anyone asks, no one knows.
Kitty was silent not because she had nothing to say; but they and her father did not want to reveal their secret thoughts.
However, the strange thing, despite the fact that she was so prepared not to obey the father’s sight, not to give him access to her sanctuary, she felt that the divine image of Mrs. Stall, which she was wearing in her soul for a whole month, disappeared unreturnly, as the figure made up of the abandoned dress, disappears when you see how that dress lies.
There remains a short-country woman who lies because she’s badly shaped, and torts the irresponsible Varenka because she doesn’t so put her down.
And no effort of imagination could no longer have been able to return the former lady Stall.
XXXV
The prince passed his fun place of spirit both to his own, and to his acquaintances, and even to the German-host, with whom the Scherbits stood.
Returning from Kiti from the water and inviting to himself the coffee and the colonel, and Mary Evgenievna, and Varenka, the prince commanded to bring the table and the chairs to the garden, under the castle, and there to cover the breakfast.
And the master and the servant survived under the influence of his fun.
They knew his generosity, and over half an hour the sick Hamburg doctor, who lived upward, with jealousy looked into the window to this joyful Russian company of healthy people gathered under a castan.
Under the twisting circles of the shade of the leaves, covered with a white cottage and covered with coffee shops, bread, oil, cheese, cold wild table, the princess sat in a coat with lily stripes, distributing cups and tarts.
On the other end the prince sat, thickly eating and speaking loud and fun.
The prince dissolved his purchases, the cuts, the cuts, the cuts of all kinds, which he bought a lot on all waters, and gave them to everyone, including Lishen, the servant, and the master with whom he joked in his comic bad German language, convincing him that not the water healed Kitty, but his great cuts, especially the soup with black.
The princess laughed on her husband for his Russian habits, but she was so vibrant and joyful as she was not all the time of her life on the waters.
The Colonel, as always, smiled at the prince's jokes; but with regard to Europe, which he carefully studied, as he thought, he kept the princess' side.
The gentle Maria Evgenievna smiled with the laughter of everything the funny prince said, and Varenka, which Kitty had never seen yet, scattered from the weak, but communicating laughter, which the prince's jokes raised in her.
It all entertained Kitty, but she couldn’t be without worrying.
She couldn’t solve the task that her father involuntaryly asked her with a joyful look at her friends and the life she loved so much.
The task of this joined the change of her relationship with Petrov, which today was so obvious and unpleasant.
Everyone was fun, but Kitty couldn’t be fun, and it dared her even more.
She felt the feeling she felt in her childhood when she was punished in her room and listened to the funny laughter of sisters.
Why did you buy this foam? The princess said, smiling and giving her husband a cup of coffee.
– You’re going to walk, well, you’re going to the shop, they’re asked to buy: “Erlaucht, excellence, stuphlucht.”
Well, as they will say, “Durchlaucht,” I can’t: ten talers and no.
“It’s just for tired,” said the princess.
Of course from tiredness.
It’s so tired, mom, that you don’t know where to go.
How can I miss you, Prince?
So much interesting now in Germany,” said Maria Evgenievna.
I know all the interesting things: I know the soup with blackberry, I know the cabbage cabbage.
I know everything.
“No, but as you want, prince, their institutions are interesting,” said Colonel.
What is interesting?
They are all happy as copper money: they have all won.
What do I do to be satisfied?
I have not defeated anyone, but take the shoes yourself, and put them out for the door yourself.
Eat up in the morning, dress up now, go to the tea salon and drink.
It is a matter of home!
You will wake up, do not rush, do not rush, do not rush, do not rush, do not rush, do not rush, do not rush.
“Time is money, you forget it,” said the colonel.
What a time!
Another time is that you give a whole month for a half-time, and then you won’t get any money for a half-time.
So is it, Katynka?
What are you, how boring?
I am nothing.
Where are you?
Sitting again, he turned to Varenka.
“I have to go home,” said Varenka, standing up, and again laughed.
She said goodbye and went to the house to take a hat.
Kitty followed her. Even Warrenka was a different one now.
She was not worse, but she was different from the one she imagined herself before.
- Oh, I didn't laugh so long! - said Varenka, gathering a bag and a bag. How cute is your dad!
Kitty was silent.
When will we see? I asked Warren.
My mother wanted to go to Petrov.
Are you not there? - said Kitty, trying to Varenka.
“I’m going to be,” Varenka replied. They are going to leave, so I promised to help rest.
Well, and I will come.
No, what about you?
Why to? Why from? Why from? - widely opening her eyes, Kitty spoke, taking up in order not to release Varenka, for her sonic. Do not stand, why?
“Yes, your father has come, and then they are angry with you.
“No, you’re telling me why you don’t want me to be often with Petrov?
You don’t want?
Why?
“I didn’t say that,” Varenka calmly said.
No, please tell me!
Everything to talk? I asked Warren.
— All, all! — she caught Kitty.
"There's nothing special, but only that Mikhail Alekseevich (so called the painter) previously wanted to go earlier, and now doesn't want to go," Varenka said, smiling.
Well to! Well! She hurried Kitty, looking dark at Varenka.
“Well, and why Anna Pavlovna said he doesn’t want you to be here.
Of course, it was unfortunate, but because of that, because of you, a dispute came out.
And you know how irritable these patients are.
Kitty, more and more cloudy, was silent, and Varenka spoke alone, trying to calm and calm her, and seeing the explosion gathering, she didn’t know what — tears or words.
So it’s better not to go...
And you know you don’t get offended...
- And divide me, and divide me! - Kitty quickly spoke, catching the coat from the hands of Varenka and looking through the eyes of her friend.
Varenka wanted to smile, looking at her friend’s childhood anger, but she was afraid to offend her.
How to divide?
I don’t understand, she said.
Share that all of this was a fiction, because it was all invented, not from the heart.
What did I do with a stranger?
And it came out that I caused a dispute and that I did what no one asked me for.
Because all the affliction! The prison! The prison!
What purpose is to pretend? Warren said quietly.
Oh what stupid, stupid!
I had no need...
She said, opening and closing the soundtracks.
But with what purpose?
To look better in front of people, in front of yourself, in front of God, to cheat all.
No, I will not afford it anymore!
Be bad, but at least not a liar, not a deceiver!
Who is the deceiver? Warrantly said Warrant. You say as if...
But Kitty was in his attack of explosivity.
She did not give her to deal.
I am not about you, I am not about you.
You are perfection.
Yes, yes, I know that you are all perfection; but what do I do, that I am bad?
That would not be if I wasn’t bad.
Let me be what I am, but I will not pretend.
What about Anna Pavlovna!
Let them live as they want, and I live as they want.
I can’t be another...
And all this is not that, not that!
What is not that? In confusion, Warrenka said.
All is not that.
I cannot live otherwise than by the heart, and you live according to the rules.
I loved you simply, and you, right, only then to save me, to teach me!
“You are unjust,” said Varenka.
I’m not talking about others, I’m talking about myself.
- Kitty! - I heard the mother's voice, - go here, show the father his coral.
Kitty with a proud look, not agreeing with her friend, took the coral from the table in the box and went to her mother.
What about you?
Why are you red? Mother and father said in one voice.
“Nothing,” she answered, “I’m coming now, and I’m running back.
“She’s still here!” she thought. What will I say to her, my God! What I did, what I said!
Why did I hurt her?
What do I do?
What will I say to her?” Kitty thought and stopped at the door.
The baker in the hat and with a sunny in the hand sat next to the table, looking at the pipe that Kitty broke.
She raised her head.
Forgiv me, forgiv me, forgiv me! She spoke to Kitty and came to her. I don’t remember what I said. I...
“I, right, didn’t want to anger you,” said Varenka smiling.
The world was closed.
But with the arrival of her father for Kitty, the whole world she lived in changed.
She did not give up everything she learned, but realized that she was cheating herself, thinking that it might be what she wanted to be.
She seemed as if she was awake; she felt all the difficulty without captivity and chastisement to stand at the height she wanted to rise; in addition, she felt all the severity of this world of anger, the dying diseases in which she lived; she felt tortuous the efforts she spent on herself to love it, and soon sought in the fresh air, to Russia, to Ergušovo, where, as she learned from the letter, her sister Dolly and her children had moved.
But her love for Warrenka did not weaken.
Apologizing, Kitty urged her to come to them in Russia.
“I’ll come when you get married,” said Varenka.
I will never go out.
So I will never come.
That’s why I’m going to get married.
Remember the promise! Kitty said.
The doctor’s forecasts were justified.
Kitty returned home, to Russia, healed.
She wasn’t as careless and joyful as before, but she was quiet, and Moscow’s fears became her memory.
Part Third
Sergey Ivanovich Koznyšev wanted to relax from mental work and, instead of going, as usual, abroad, arrived at the end of May in the village to his brother.
According to him, the best life was the village. He came now to enjoy this life to his brother.
Constantine Levin was very happy, especially that he didn’t wait for his brother Nicholas this summer.
But despite his love and respect for Sergey Ivanovich, Constantine Levin was uncomfortable with his brother in the village.
He was unpleasant, even unpleasant to see his brother’s attitude towards the village. For Constantine Levin the village was a place of life, i.e. of joy, suffering, labor; for Sergei Ivanovich the village was, on the one hand, a rest from labor, and on the other hand, a useful anti-eating of corruption, which he received with pleasure and consciousness of his benefit.
For Constantine Levin, the village was so good that it represented a field of labor that was undoubtedly useful; for Sergey Ivanovich, the village was good that there can and should nothing be done.
Furthermore, Sergey Ivanovich’s attitude towards the people was somewhat corrupt by Constantine.
Sergey Ivanovich said that he loved and knew the people, and often talked with the men, that he knew how to do well, without pretending and not breaking, and from each such conversation he brought out the general data in favour of the people and as proof that this people knew. This attitude to the people did not like Constantine Levin.
For Constantine, the people were only the main participant in the general work, and, despite all respect and some equal love for the man, which he had sucked, as he himself said, probably with the milk of the grandmother, he, as a participant with him in the general affairs, who sometimes came in admiration of the strength, the cruelty, the righteousness of these people, very often, when in the general affairs other qualities were required, came in anger on the people for his insecurity, insecurity, drunkeness, lies.
Constantine Levin, if asked if he loved the people, would definitely not know how to answer it.
He loved and didn’t love the people as much as people at all.
Of course, as a good man, he loved more than he didn’t love people, and therefore the people. But to love or not to love the people, as something special, he could not, because not only he lived with the people, not only all his interests were connected with the people, but he considered himself part of the people, he did not see in himself and the people any special qualities and disadvantages, and he could not oppose himself to the people.
Furthermore, although he lived for a long time in the closest relationship to men as a master and mediator, and most importantly, as a counselor (the men believed in him and went for fourteen to advise him), he had no certain judgment about the people, and to the question whether he knows the people, he would be in the same difficulty to answer as to the question whether he loves the people.
To say that he knows the people would be the same for him to say that he knows the people.
He constantly observed and recognized all kinds of people, including men-men, whom he considered good and interesting people, and constantly noticed new features in them, changed their previous judgments and made new ones. Sergey Ivanovich is opposite.
Just as he loved and praised the rural life in the opposite of the one he did not love, just as he loved the people in the opposite of the class of people he did not love, and just as he knew the people as something opposite to the people at all.
In his methodical mind clearly formed certain forms of people's life, partly derived from the people's life itself, but primarily from the opposite.
He has never changed his opinion about the people and his sympathy to him.
In the disputes that occurred between the brothers during the judgment of the people, Sergei Ivanovich always defeated his brother precisely by the fact that Sergei Ivanovich had certain concepts of the people, its character, properties and tastes; but Constantine had no definite and unchanged concepts, so that in these disputes Constantine was always a stranger in contradiction with himself.
For Sergey Ivanovich, his younger brother was a glorious little, with a heart placed well (as he expressed in French), but with a mind though quite fast, but subjected to the impression of the minute and therefore fulfilled with contradictions.
With the humility of his older brother, he sometimes explained to him the importance of things, but he could not find the pleasure of disputing with him because he was too easy to break him.
Constantine Levin looked at his brother as a man of enormous mind and education, noble in the highest meaning of this word and gifted with the ability to work for the common good.
But in the depths of his soul, the older he became and the closer he knew his brother, the more and more he thought that this ability to work for the common good, which he felt completely deprived of, may be, and is not quality, but, on the contrary, the lack of something — not the lack of good, honest, noble desires and tastes, but the lack of the power of life, of what they call the heart of the desire that forces man from all the countless ways of life to choose one and to desire one.
The more he knew his brother, the more he noticed that Sergey Ivanovich and many other actors for the common good were not brought to this love for the common good with the heart, but they thought that doing this was good, and only for that reason they did it.
In this assumption, Levin also confirmed the note that his brother had no longer taken to his heart questions about the general good and the immortality of the soul than about the chess party or the intelligent arrangement of a new machine.
Furthermore, Constantine Levin was uncomfortable in the village with his brother even because in the village, especially in the summer, Levin was constantly occupied with farming, and he lacked a long summer day to make everything necessary, and Sergey Ivanovich rested.
But although he was resting now, that is, not working on his work, he was so accustomed to mental activity that he loved to express in a beautiful, compressed form the thoughts that came to him, and he loved to have someone to listen.
The most ordinary and natural listener was his brother. And therefore, despite the friendly simplicity of their relationships, Constantine was uncomfortable to leave him alone.
Sergey Ivanovich loved to lie in the grass on the sun and to lie so, hot, and lazy to bite.
“You’re not going to believe,” he said to his brother, “what’s a pleasure for me for this harsh lion. No thought in the head, even a ball of regret.
But Constantine Levin was tired of sitting and listening to him, especially because he knew that without him they would take the naval to the unresolved field and the invaded god knows how, if not to see; and the cracks in the plugs will not swing, but shoot and then say that the plugs the imagination is empty and whether it is the matter of the sausage of Andreev, etc.
“Let you walk by the heat,” Sergey Ivanovich told him.
“No, I’m just going to run for a minute,” said Levin and fled to the field.
In the first days of June it happened that the grandmother and economist Agaphya Mikhailovna carried a bottle in the basement with the newly embassy of her fungi, swallowed, fell and swallowed her hand in the cyst.
A young bullyer arrived, a student who just finished the course, a earth doctor. He examined his hand, said that it was not pulled out, imposed compresses and, leaving for lunch, apparently the conversation with the famous Sergei Ivanovich Koznyshev and told him to express his enlightened look at things, all the distant splets, complaining of the bad situation of the earth affairs.
Sergey Ivanovich listened carefully, asked and, excitated by a new listener, talked and stated a few narrow and vigorous remarks, respectfully appreciated by the young doctor, and came to his, familiar brother, vivid state of spirit, to which he usually came after a brilliant and vivid conversation.
After the departure, Dr. Sergey Ivanovich wanted to ride with a car on the river.
He loved hunting fish and as if he was proud that he could love such a stupid job.
Constantine Levin, who had to be on the hunt and on the hunt, called to bring his brother - in the cabriolet.
It was the time of the year, the passage of the summer, when the harvest of the present year has already been determined, when the care of the seed of the future year begins, and the falls have come, when the seed is all broken out, and, gray-green, not filled, still light column is worried by the wind, when the green sheep, with the grains of yellow grass broken over it, are disproportionate by the late seed, when the early grains are already broken, hiding the land, when the murdered in the stone of the sheep pair with the remaining roads, which do not take the seed, are breathed up to the half; when the dry-green, not filled, still light column is worried by the wind, when the green sheep, with the grains
It was the time when in rural work comes a short breath before the beginning of the yearly repeated and annually calling all the forces of the people of cleaning.
The fruit was beautiful, and there were clear, hot summer days with bright short nights.
The brothers had to go through the forest to go to the shores.
Sergey Ivanovich loved the beauty of the leaves of the forest all the time, indicating the brother to the dark side of the shadows, scattering with yellow clothes, preparing for the color of the old lip, then to the shadows of the young trees of this year.
Constantine Levin didn’t like talking and listening to the beauty of nature.
The words removed the beauty of what he saw.
He deceived his brother, but intentionally began to think about another.
When they walked through the forest, all his attention was absorbed by the sight of a steam field on the grass, where the yellowed grass, where the cells cut and cut, where the crowd dropped, and where the smelled.
The car was carried by the telegraph.
Levin counted the tells, remained pleased that everything needed was taken out, and his thoughts passed when he saw the lies on the question of rest.
He has always experienced something especially striking for living in the seed cleaning.
Arriving to the shore, Levin stopped the horse.
The morning rose was still left down on the thick seat of the grass, and Sergey Ivanovich, in order not to urinate his legs, asked to take himself through the shore in the cabriolet to the rocky cage, which took the eyelids.
No matter how sad it was for Constantine Levin to melt his grass, he entered the lake.
The high grass was softly curved around the wheels and legs of the horse, leaving its seeds on wet spots and legs.
The brother sat under the cage and broke the cage, and Levin took the horse, binding it, and entered the immense gray-green sea of the wind.
Silk-weight with singing seeds of the grass was almost on the belt on the boiling place.
Through the hole, Constantine Levin went out on the road and met the old man with a swollen eye, who carried the bees.
What? Have you captured, Fomic? He asked him.
What it was, Konstantin Mitrich!
Just to protect them.
This was the second time my friend left, thank you, the guys jumped.
You have a patch. They pulled the horse and jumped.
“Well, what do you say, Fomic, to cat or to wait?
Yes what! We have to wait until Peter’s day.
You’re always hairy before.
God will give the grass good.
There will be space.
And the weather, what do you think?
The work of God. Maybe the weather will be.
Levin came to his brother.
Nothing was caught, but Sergey Ivanovich didn’t miss and seemed in the most joyful position of the spirit.
Levin saw that, disappointed with the doctor, he wanted to talk.
Levin, on the contrary, wanted to go home more quickly, to order the calling of the coats to the end, and to resolve the doubt about the silence that greatly occupied him.
“Well, we’re going,” he said.
Where to rush?
We sit.
But you are a fool, though!
It doesn’t catch, but well. Every hunting is so good that you have to do with nature.
What a beauty is this steel water! He said. “These shores are loose,” he continued, “always remind me of a mystery, you know? The grass says water, and we shed, and we shed.
“I don’t know this mystery,” Levin replied.
“And you know, I thought of you,” said Sergey Ivanovich. “It doesn’t seem like you’re doing in the outskirts, as this doctor told me; he’s a very stupid boy.
And I have spoken to you, and I say, it is not good that you do not go to the gathering, and have gone away from the affairs of the earth.
If decent people will be removed, of course, everything will go God knows how.
We pay the money, they go to the complaint, and there are no schools, no fields, no clothes, no pharmacies, nothing.
- For I tried, - said Levin quietly and unwillingly, - I can't! What to do!
Why can you not?
I admit I don’t understand.
Paranoia, unchanges I do not allow; is it just a lie?
Not one, not the other, not the third.
I’ve tried and I see that I can’t do anything,” said Levin.
He was little confused with what his brother said.
Looking behind the river on the sheep, he distinguished something black, but not to understand, the horse is this or the speaker is the top.
Why can you not do anything?
You’ve tried, and you’ve failed, and you’re obedient.
How not have self-love?
“Self-love,” said Levin, stuck behind his brother’s living words, “I don’t understand.
When I was told at the university that others understand integral computing, and I don’t understand it, there’s self-love. But here you need to be convinced first that you need to have some abilities for these matters and, most importantly, that all these matters are very important.
So what! Is that not important? - said Sergey Ivanovich, engaged in living and that his brother found not important what he was doing, and especially that he obviously almost did not listen to him.
I don’t think it’s important, it doesn’t take me what you want. Levin answered, realizing that what he saw was a speaker, and that the speaker probably dropped the men out of the sheep. They turned the sausages.
“Do you have smelled?” He thought.
“Well, listen, yet,” the older brother said, “there are the boundaries of everything.
It is very good to be a strange and sincere man and not to love false, I know all this; but what you say is either meaningless, or is very bad.
How do you find irrelevant that the people you love, as you assure...
“I’ve never believed,” said Constantine Levin.
Do you die without help?
Dirty grandmothers blurry the children, and the people touch in ignorance and remain in the power of every writer, and you are given a means to help, and you don’t help, because, in your opinion, it doesn’t matter.
And Sergey Ivanovich put him a dilemma: either you’re so undeveloped that you can’t see everything you can do, or you don’t want to act with your tranquillity, glory, I don’t know what to do.
Constantine Levin felt that he only had to obey or acknowledge the lack of love for the general affair. And that insulted and angered him.
“Both of them,” he said strongly. I don’t see it to be possible...
Can you, well placed the money, provide medical care?
I can not, as I think...
On the four thousand square verts of our department, with our burns, metals, work sometimes, I don’t see the possibility of providing medical care everywhere.
I don’t believe in medicine at all.
Well, let me; it’s unfair.
I will call you thousands of examples.
What about schools?
Why the schools?
What do you say?
Can there be doubts about the benefits of education?
If it is good for you, then for everyone.
Constantine Levin felt morally attached to the wall and therefore burned up and unintentionally expressed the main reason for his indifference to the general matter.
“Maybe it’s all right; but why do I care about the establishment of medical facilities that I’m never using, and schools where I’m not going to send my children, where the peasants don’t want to send the children, and I don’t still firmly believe that they should be sent? He said.
Sergey Ivanovich for a minute surprised this unexpected view of the case; but he immediately made a new attack plan.
He silenced, pulled out one hole, turned over and, smiling, turned to his brother.
Well, let me...
First, the medical point was needed.
Here we sent to Agatha Mikhailovna to the Earth Doctor.
I think the hand will remain curved.
This is another question...
Then a skilled man, a worker you need more and more expensive.
“No, who you want to ask,” Constantine Levin strongly answered, “written as a worker is much worse.
And the roads cannot be refined; and the bridges will be put and stolen.
"Now," said Sergey Ivanovich, who didn't like the contradictions and especially those who constantly jumped from one foot to another and without any connection introduced new arguments, so that it was impossible to know what to answer, - however, not in that case.
permission.
Do you admit that education is good for the people?
“I admit,” said Levin desperately and immediately thought he didn’t say what he thought.
He felt that if he acknowledged it, he would be proven that he spoke empty words without any meaning.
How it would be proved to him, he didn’t know, but he knew that it would undoubtedly logically be proved to him, and he waited for that evidence.
The argument came much easier than Constantine Levin expected.
“If you acknowledge that is good,” said Sergey Ivanovich, “then you, as a honest person, cannot not love or sympathize with such a thing and therefore not want to work for it.
“But I still don’t admit this thing is good,” he reddened, said Constantine Levin.
You said now...
I do not recognize it as good or possible.
You can’t know this without making any effort.
“Well, let’s put,” said Levin, though he didn’t believe it at all, “but I don’t see why I’m going to take care of it.
That is how?
No, if we talked, then explain me from a philosophical point of view,” said Levin.
“I don’t understand what philosophy is,” Sergey Ivanovich said, as it seemed to Levin, as if he didn’t recognize his brother’s right to argue about philosophy.
And that irritated Levine.
Here is what! He was hot, he said. I think the engine of all our actions is personal happiness.
Now in the earth’s institutions I, as a noble, don’t see anything that contributes to my well-being.
The roads are not better and cannot be better; my horses lead me and the evil.
I don’t need a doctor and a point, I don’t need a world judge, I’m never addressing him and I’m never addressing him.
Schools are not only unnecessary to me, but also harmful, as I told you.
For me, the earth’s institutions are just a duty to pay eighteen copies from the ten, to go to the city, to sleep with the clopes and to listen to every temptation and foolishness, and personal interest does not encourage me.
“Let,” Sergey Ivanovich smiled, “the personal interest did not encourage us to work for the liberation of the peasants, but we worked.
No is! More and more hot, Constantine hit. The liberation of the peasants was another matter.
There was a personal interest.
I wanted to get rid of this yarm that pushed us, all the good people.
But to be loud, to argue about how many gold dollars I need and how tubes to spend in a city where I don’t live; to be sworn and to judge the man who stole the branch, and six hours to listen to every blow that blows the defenders and the prosecutors, and how the chairman asks to my old man Aleški-Duračka: “Do you, the accused, acknowledge the fact of the kidnapping of the branch?” “Yes?”
Constantine Levin was already withdrawn, he began to represent the chairman and the Alesco-the fool; he seemed that it was all going to the matter.
But Sergey Ivanovich caught his shoulders.
So what do you want to say?
I just want to say that the rights that affect me... my interest, I will always defend with all the strengths; that when we, students, were searching and reading our letters of the gendarmery, I am ready with all the strengths to defend these rights, to defend my rights of education, freedoms.
I understand the military duty that affects the fate of my children, my brothers, and myself; I am ready to discuss what concerns me; but to judge where to distribute forty thousand earth money, or to judge Aleshu the fool, I don’t understand and can’t.
Constantine Levin spoke as if it broke the density of his words.
Sergey Ivanovich smiled.
And tomorrow you’ll be judged, what would you like to be judged in the old court?
I will not be judged.
I will not shoot anyone, and I don’t need it.
Well! - he continued, again jumping to the completely unwilling thing, - our institutions and all of this - like the marks that we met, as in a three-day day, so that it would be like the forest that itself grew up in Europe, and I can't swallow and believe in these marks!
Sergey Ivanovich blamed only by his shoulders, expressing this gesture the surprise of where these martyrs now appeared in their dispute, although he immediately understood what his brother wanted to say.
“Let’s, because it’s not possible to argue, he noticed. But Constantine Levin wanted to justify himself in the deficiency he knew for himself, in the indifference to the general good, and he continued.
“I think,” said Constantine, “no activity can be solid, unless it has no foundation in personal interest.
“This is the common truth, philosophical,” he said, repeating with determination the word philosophical, as if he wanted to show that he also had the right, like everyone, to speak about philosophy.
Sergey Ivanovich smiled again.
“And he also has some of his philosophy there to serve his inclinations,” he thought.
“Well, you’re about philosophy,” he said. The main task of the philosophy of all ages is to find the necessary connection that exists between the personal interest and the common.
But it’s not to the case, but to the case that I just need to correct your comparison.
The bears are not touched, but that are planted, that are seated, and they should be treated more carefully.
Only those peoples have a future, only those peoples can be called historical, who have a little to what is important and significant in their institutions, and prevail them.
And Sergey Ivanovich moved the question into the philosophical-historical area, unavailable to Constantine Levin, and showed him all the injustice of his view.
"When it comes to the fact that you don't like it, apologize to me, it's our Russian lie and barry, and I'm sure you have this temporary mistake, and it's going to pass.
Constantine was silent.
He felt he was broken from all sides, but he felt together with the fact that what he wanted to say was not understood by his brother. He didn’t only know why it wasn’t understood: whether because he couldn’t say clearly what he wanted, whether because his brother didn’t want, or because he couldn’t understand him.
But he did not get deeper into these thoughts and, without objecting to his brother, thought about a completely different, his personal matter. Well, however, we will go.
Sergey Ivanovich melted the last coat, Constantine wrapped the horse, and they went.
The personal affairs that Levin had undertaken during his conversation with his brother were as follows: last year, when he came once for a break and was angry on the speaker, Levin used his means of calming – he took the man’s hair and started cutting.
He liked this work so much that he took the cushion several times; he cushed the whole lake in front of the house, and this year from the very spring he made himself a plan — to cushion with the men all the days.
Since the arrival of his brother, he was in question: to kiss or not?
He was conscious to leave his brother alone all day, and he feared that his brother would not laugh at him for it.
But, passing through the lake, remembering the impressions of the cushion, he has almost decided that he will cushion.
After an annoying conversation with his brother, he recalled that intention again.
“There is a physical movement, and then my character is decisively broken,” he thought and decided to catch how uncomfortable it would be to him in front of his brother and people.
From the evening, Konstantin Levin went to the countryside, made an order of work, and sent through the villages to call for tomorrow the cows, in order to catch the Kaline lake, the greatest and the best.
“Send my hair, please, to Titus, so that he beats and takes it out tomorrow; maybe I’m going to cut myself too,” he said, trying not to confuse.
The speaker smiled and said:
I listen to S.
The evening after the tea, Levin said to his brother.
“It seems the weather has settled,” he said. Tomorrow I start cutting.
“I love this work,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
I love terribly.
I cough myself sometimes with the men and tomorrow I want to cough the whole day.
Sergey Ivanovich raised his head and looked at his brother with curiosity. That is how?
Like men, a whole day.
“Yes, it’s very nice,” said Levin.
“It’s great, like a physical exercise, but you’re hardly able to endure it,” Sergey Ivanovich said without any laughter.
I tried it.
First it’s hard, then it’s hard.
I don’t think I will stop...
This is how!
But tell me how men look at it?
They should be laughing that the bar is wondering.
- No, I don't think; but it's so fun and hard work together that you can never think.
How will you eat with them?
It is uncomfortable to send you the laft and the indy burned.
No, I will only come home at one time with their rest.
On the other morning, Constantine Levin stood earlier than the usual, but the economic orders arrested him, and when he arrived in the post, the cows went in the second row.
Even from the mountain opened to him under the hill a tenist, already stumbled part of the hill, with stumbling rows and black hints of captains, drawn by the coats in the place from which they came the first rows.
As he entered, he was opened with a bright one-to-one stretched vein and different hairy men, who in the captains, who in the same clothes.
He counted thirty-two people.
They slowly moved along the uneven bottom of the hole, where there was an old hole.
Some of his Levin knew.
There was the old Ermile in a very long white shirt, swallowing his hair; there was a young little Vaska, who was with Levin in the dogs, taking each row. There was also Tite, on the edge of Uncle Levin, a small, poor man.
Levin took tears from the horse and, attaching it to the road, collided with Titus, who, bringing the second hair out of the cage, gave it.
“It’s ready, barin, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard, it’s hard.”
Levin took his hair and began to measure.
Finished their rows, sweating and joyful coats went out one after another on the road and, laughing, healed with the barin.
They all looked at him, but no one said anything until the high old man, who came out on the road with a swallowed and rough face, in a shepherd jacket, turned to him.
“Look, Barin, take the gush, don’t give up! He said, and Levin heard a blurred laughter between the hair.
“I’m trying not to go back,” he said, standing behind Titus and waiting for time to start.
“Motry,” the old man repeated.
Titus released the place, and Levin followed him.
The grass was low, steep, and Levin, long fainted and disturbed by the turning sights on himself, in the first minutes he grew badly, although he grew strongly.
A voice was heard behind him:
- Sitting badly, the handheld is high, whis, he swallow as, - said one.
“Five more,” another said.
“Nothing, it’s cool, it’s striking,” the old man continued. He went, he went...
A wide range you take, you get tired... The owner, you can’t, it’s trying for yourself!
Oh yeah, it is a order!
That’s why our brother on the gorge was.
The grass went milder, and Levin, listening but not answering and trying to cut as well as possible, followed Titus.
They took one hundred steps. Titus went all, not stopping, not showing any little tiredness; but Levin was terrified that he would not endure; so he was tired.
He felt that he was out of his last strength, and decided to ask Tita to stop.
But at that time, Tite himself stopped and, swallowing, took the grass, cut the hair and began to go.
Levin sparked and, breathing, looked.
A man walked behind him and, obviously, also tired, because now, when Levin did not come, he stopped and began to run.
Tite moisturized his hair and Levin's hair, and they went further.
The second reception was the same.
Tito walked after the macho, not stopping and not tired.
Levin followed him, trying not to stop, and it became more and more difficult for him: a minute came when, he felt, he had no more strength, but at that time Tite stopped and walked.
So they passed the first line.
And this long line seemed especially difficult to Levin; but when the line was arrived, and Tite, jumping on the shoulder of his hair, slowly went to follow the traces left by his cables on the proxy, and Levin just so went on his proxy, — despite the fact that the sweat cratched the city on his face and cratched from his nose, and his whole back was wet, as melted in water, he was very well.
Especially he was pleased with what he knew now, what he would endure.
His pleasure was poisoned only by the fact that his number was bad.
“I’m going to get less with my hand, more with all the bullshit,” he thought, comparing the ticked line of Titus to his broken and unrighteously sitting next to him.
The first line, as Levin noted, Tite went fast, probably wanting to try the bar, and the line was long.
The following rows were already easier, but Levin still had to push all his strength in order not to get away from the men.
He didn’t think of anything, he didn’t want anything but not to get away from the men and work as best as possible.
He only heard the lust of his hair, and he saw the distant straight figure of Titus, the half-circle of the procos, the slowly and volatile trees and the heads of flowers around the lust of his hair, and the end of the line in front of himself, which will be rested.
Unknowing what it was and where it came from, in the middle of the work, he suddenly felt a pleasant feeling of cold on the hot reminded shoulders.
He looked at the sky while he wrapped his hair.
There was a low, heavy rain, and there was a heavy rain.
Some men went to the captains and dressed them; others, just like Levin, only joyfully pressed their shoulders under pleasant refreshing.
And a number more passed.
They passed long, short, with good, with bad grass.
Levin lost all the consciousness of time and decided not to know, sooner or later now.
Now there is a change in his work, which gave him great pleasure.
In the middle of his work on him were minutes, during which he forgot what he did, it became easy for him, and in those very minutes the series of him came out almost as straight and good as with Titus.
But as soon as he remembered what he did, and began to try to do better, he immediately experienced all the hard work, and a number went out stupid.
After passing another line, he wanted to go back, but Tite stopped and, coming to the old man, said something quietly to him.
They both looked at the sun. “What do they say about it and why does it not come out?” - Levi's thought, not realizing that the men, without ceasing, have been hairing for at least four hours and they've got time for breakfast.
“Eat breakfast, barin,” said the old man.
Is it time?
Well to breakfast.
Levin gave the hair to Titus, and with the men who went to the captains for bread, he went to the horse through a slightly brushed rain of a series of long scattered spaces.
Here only he realized that he did not guess the weather and the rain urinated his seed.
“Take out the seed,” he said.
“Nothing, barin, in the rain of the hair, in the weather of the grape!” said the old man.
Levin pulled the horse and went home to drink coffee.
Sergey Ivanovich just got up. Drinking coffee, Levin left again for a break before Sergey Ivanovich was able to dress up and go out to the dining room.
After breakfast, Levin got in the line no longer on the previous place, but between the joke old man who invited him to the neighbor, and a young man, from autumn only married and gone to cushion the first summer.
The old man, standing straight, walked forward, straight and broadly moving the turned legs, and with a precise and straight movement, which apparently did not cost him more effort than machining his hands on the walk, as if he was playing, he placed the same, high line. Not he, but one sharp hair itself swallowed on the juice grass.
A young mouse walked behind Levina.
His gentle young face, binding over his hair with a grain of fresh grass, all worked out of effort; but as soon as they looked at him, he smiled.
He was apparently ready to die faster than to admit that it was hard for him.
Levin walked between them.
In the hotest, it seemed not so hard for him.
His sweat cooled him, and the sun, heating his back, his head, and his arm, gave strength and perseverance in the work; and more and more the minutes of unconsciousness came when you could not think about what you are doing.
The hair was cut by itself.
It was happy minutes.
Even more joyful were the minutes when the old man walked to the river, in which the rows stumbled, wrapped a wet thick grass hair, wrapped its steel in the fresh water of the river, wrapped the brush and wrapped Levin.
Oh my quasco!
And well? He said, humbling.
And, indeed, Levin never drank such a drink as this warm water with a floating green and rosy from a harsh brush taste.
And immediately after that came a blessed slow walk with the hand on the hair, during which it was possible to remove the lily sweat, to breathe the full chest, and to look at the whole stretching corner and what was done around, in the forest and in the field.
The lower Levin was throwing, the more and more he felt the minutes of forgiveness, in which the hands were no longer throwing the hair, but the hair itself moved all the self-conscious body, the full body of life, and, as if by magic, without thinking about it, the right and clear work was done by itself.
These were the most happy minutes.
It was difficult only when it was necessary to stop this unconscious movement and think when it was necessary to hang a cat or an untouched carpenter.
The old man did it easily.
The cat came, he changed the movement and where the foot, where the end of the hair hit the cat on both sides with short strikes.
And, doing this, he looked at everything and observed what was opened before him, then he broke the cage, eats it, or cushed Levin, then he throwed the branch with his hair, then he looked at the nest of the cage, from which the female was flying out of the hair itself, then he caught the cage that was on the way, and, as a whale lifting her hair, he showed Levin and throwed it out.
And for Levin and the young man behind him, these changes of movements were difficult.
Both of them, having made one stressful movement, were at work and were unable to change the movement and at the same time to observe what was before them.
Levin didn’t notice how time passed.
If they asked him how long he was spending, he would say that it was half an hour, and it was time for lunch.
The old man turned Levin's attention to the girls and boys, who from different sides, slightly visible, on the high grass and on the road went to the boys, carrying their handwheels with bread and tightened with thumbs of cookers with quas.
He said, pointing on them, and looked at the sun from under his hand.
Two more lines passed, the old man stopped.
“Well, barin, lunch!” he said strongly.
And when they came to the river, the cows went through the rows to the captains, where, waiting for them, the children sat and brought lunch.
The men gathered — the far under the telgae, the neighbors — under the rocky cage, on which the grass was thrown.
Levin sat down to them; he didn’t want to go.
Every shake in front of the barin has long been gone.
The men were preparing lunch.
Some washed, young boys swim in the river, others placed a place for rest, wrapped the bags with bread and found the cookers with quas.
The old man crushed in a cup of bread, melted it with a teaspoon of teaspoon, sinked water from the brush, cut the bread, and, sinking salt, began to pray to the east.
“No, barin, my prison,” he said, sitting on his knees before the cup.
The prison was so delicious that Levin thought to go home for lunch.
He lunched with the elder and talked to him about his domestic affairs, taking the living part in them, and told him all his affairs and all the circumstances that could interest the elder.
He felt closer to him than to his brother, and unwillingly smiled from the kindness he felt to that man. When the old man again stood up, prayed and slept right under the grass, put himself under the head of the grass, Levin did the same, and despite the licked, solely persistent mouths and cowboys, chewing his sweat face and body, he slept immediately and awoke, only when the sun came to the other side of the grass and began to deliver it.
The old man has long not been sleeping and sitting, throwing the hair of the young boys.
Levin looked around and didn’t know the place: so everything changed.
The enormous space of the lake was stumbled and glowed with a special, new glow, with its already smelling rows, on the night hairy rays of the sun.
And the crossing crossing at the river, and the river itself, before not seen, but now glowing with steel in its curves, and the moving and rising people, and the curved wall of the grass of the untouched place of the lake, and the crossing crossing over the naked lake, all this was completely new.
After waking up, Levin began to consider how hard it was, how much more can be done today.
A lot of work was done for 42 people.
The whole large hole, which was coughing for two days with a bark in thirty hair, was already cut off. The corner with short rows remained untouched.
But Levin wanted to jump as much as possible on that day, and it was boring at the sun that was so soon down.
He didn’t feel any tired; he just wanted to work even faster and as much as possible.
What do you think, the top, the top, the top? He told the old man.
As God gives, the sun is not high.
Something water for boys?
During the sunset, when the smokers smoked again, the old man announced to the boys that "Mashkin Up to jump - the vodka will be."
Oh yeah, don’t jump!
Go on, Tito
We smell live!
You are at night.
Go to! They heard the voices, and when they ate the bread, the cows went in.
— Well, guys, keep up! — said Tite, and almost rushed forward.
- Go, go! - said the old man, singing after him and easily pursuing him, - I cut off.
Be careful!
And the young and the old are as if they wandered.
But as much as they were hurry, they did not break the grass, and the rows were placed as clearly and clearly.
The corner left in the corner was melted in five minutes. Even the last hair came in rows, as the front captured the captains on their shoulders and went through the way to the Maskin Upper.
The sun was already down to the trees, when they, brushing the brushes, entered the woods of Maskin Upper.
The grass was on the belt in the middle of the grass, and soft and soft, lumpy, somewhere on the forest stumbling by Ivan-da-Maria.
After a short meeting—whether walking or walking—Prohor Hermillin, also a well-known cowboy, a huge black man, went forward.
He passed a line forward, turned back and broke down, and all began to rely after him, walking under the mountain on a hole and on the mountain under the hole of the forest. The sun went to the forest.
The rose has already fallen, and the hair only on the gorge was on the sun, and in the bottom on which the pair rose, and on that side went in a fresh, rosy shade.
The work was cooked.
Cuted with a juice sound and purely smelled grass was placed in high rows.
Through the short rows of hair from all sides, brushing with brushes and sounding with the collapse of hair, then brushing the brush on the pulled hair, then joyful screams, pursue each other.
Levin went the same between the young and the old.
The old man, wearing his sheep jacket, was as funny, jokeful and free in movement.
In the forest there were constantly berries, flooded in the juice grass, which were cut by hair.
But the old man, encountering the fungi, every time he swallowed, picked up and put for the pudding. “Another old hotel,” he said.
It was easy to cut a wet and weak grass, but it was difficult to go down and rise over the sharp hills of the oval.
But the old man is not a stess.
Mahaya all the same hair, he, with a small, hard step of his shoes in the big legs, slowly entered the circle, and, though trembling with the whole body and with the highs under the armbands, he did not miss a single grass or a single fungi on the way, and also joked with the men and Levin.
Levin followed him and often thought he would fall, climbing with his hair on such a sharp hole, where it was hard to enter without his hair; but he went up and did what he needed.
He felt that some external force moved him.
Maskin Upper jumped, made the last rows, dressed captains and went fun to the house.
Levin sat on the horse and, with regret to say goodbye to the men, went home.
He looked from the mountains; they were not seen in the cloud that was rising from the bottom; there were only joyful rough voices heard, the noise and the sound of the facing hair.
Sergey Ivanovich has long been eaten and drinking water with lemon and ice in his room, looking at the newspapers and journals just received from the mail, when Levin, with swallowed from the sweat to the forehead with swallowed hair and black, wet back and chest, with a joyful speech walked to him in the room.
And we worked the whole hole!
Oh, how good, it is amazing!
How did you live? - said Levin, completely forgotten yesterday's unpleasant conversation.
The grandchildren! Sergey Ivanovich said, in the first minute unfavourably looking at his brother. A door, a door, a door, a door, a door, a door! I put a dozen whole.
Sergey Ivanovich could not tolerate the muck and in his room he opened the windows only at night and carefully closed the doors.
Oh God, no one.
If I get in, I will catch it.
You won’t believe what pleasure!
How did you spend the day?
I am well.
Did you go on a whole day?
I think you are hungry like a wolf.
She has prepared everything for you.
No, I don’t want to eat. I ate there.
I’m going to get tired.
“Well, go, go, and I’m going to come to you now,” said Sergey Ivanovich, climbing his head, looking at his brother. He added, smiling, and, gathering his books, prepared to go. He suddenly got fun and didn’t want to break with his brother. When it was rain, where did you go?
What is the rain?
A little scratched.
So I will come now.
Have you spent the day well?
Well and great. Levin went out to dress up.
Five minutes later, the brothers gathered in the dining room.
Although Levin seemed not to want to eat, and he sat for lunch only to not hurt Kuzma, but when he began to eat, the lunch seemed to him extremely delicious.
Sergey Ivanovich, smiling, looked at him.
“Oh yeah, a letter to you,” he said. - Cuzma, please bring it down.
Look at the door closed.
The letter was from Oblonsky.
Levin read it loudly.
Oblonsky wrote from St. Petersburg: "I got a letter from Dolly, she is in Ergushov, and she's not going well.
Come, please, to her, help with advice, you know everything.
She will be so happy to see you. She is alone, poor.
Together with everyone else abroad.”
This is great!
I’m sure I’ll go to them,” said Levin. And then we go together.
She is so glorious.
isn’t it true?
Are they near here?
Verse is thirty. Maybe it will be forty.
A great way. We will go great.
- Very happy, - all smiled, said Sergey Ivanovich.
The appearance of the younger brother directly provided him for fun.
You have appetite! He said, looking at his bright-red-burned face and neck over the plate.
Great is!
You won’t believe what this regime is useful against any dwarf.
I want to enrich medicine with a new term: Arbeitscur.
You don’t need it, it seems.
- Yes, but different nerve patients.
Yes, it needs to be tried.
And I wanted to come and look at you, but the heat was so unbearable that I didn’t go further the forest.
I sat down and went through the forest to freedom, met with your pet and swept her to the eyes of the men on you.
As I realized, they do not approve it.
She said, “It’s not the Lord’s thing.”
In general, it seems to me that in the people’s concept, the requirements for the known, as they call, “host” activity are very strictly defined. And they do not allow the lords to come out of the framework defined in their concepts.
Maybe, but it’s a pleasure that I’ve never experienced in my life.
There is nothing bad.
isn’t it true? He answered Levin. What to do if they don’t like it?
On the other hand, I think nothing.
- In general, - continued Sergey Ivanovich, - you, as I see, are happy with your day.
very satisfied.
We broke the whole hole.
And what old man I was there!
You can’t imagine what beauty it is!
And I too. First, I resolved two chess tasks, and one very cute, - opened by foot.
I will show you.
Then I thought about my yesterday’s conversation.
What? About yesterday’s conversation? - said Levin, gladly swallowing and breathing after the lunch and firmly unable to remember what it was yesterday's conversation.
I say you are partially right.
Our discrepancy is that you put a personal interest in the engine, and I believe that the interest of general good should be in every person who stands at a certain degree of education.
Per you are right that the material activity would be more desirable. In general you are nature too prime-sautiere, as the French say; you want passionate, energetic activity or nothing.
Levin listened to his brother and firmly did not understand anything and did not want to understand.
He was just afraid that his brother would not ask him a question that would see that he had not heard anything.
“Yes, my friend,” said Sergey Ivanovich, touching him on his shoulder.
Yes of course.
So what!
“I don’t stand for my own,” Levin replied with a childish, guilty smile.
“What would I argue about? He thought. I’m right and he’s right, and it’s all good.
I just have to go to the office to arrange.”
He stood up, dragging and smiling.
Sergey Ivanovich also smiled.
“If you want to go, let’s go together,” he said, without wanting to break up with the brother, from whom there was freshness and vigorousness. We go and go to the office if you need it.
Oh my daddy! Levin screamed so loud that Sergey Ivanovich was scared.
What, what are you?
What is the hand of Ahafi Mikhailovny? - said Levin, striking himself to his head. I forgot about her.
Better a lot.
I am still escaping to her.
You can’t wear the hat, I’m going back.
And he, like a trembling, heated the cables, fleeing from the stairs.
While Stephan Arkadić came to St. Petersburg to perform the most natural, known to all the servants, although uncomprehensible to the unemployed, the most necessary duty, without which there is no possibility to serve, — remind of himself in the ministry, — and when he performed this duty, taking almost all the money out of the house, fun and pleasantly spending time both on the runs and on the daches, Dolly and the children moved to the village to reduce as much expenses as possible.
She moved to her granted village of Ergušovo, the same where the forest was sold in the spring and which was in fifty verts from the Pokrovsky Levin.
In Ergušov, the large old house was long broken, and the prince was separated and increased the flegel.
Flegel twenty years ago, when Dolly was a child, was placed and comfortable, although it stood, like all the flegel, on the side of the exit hall and south.
But now this fligel was old and angry.
When Stephan Arkadić was traveling in the spring to sell the forest, Dolly asked him to revise the house and tell him to repair what it needed.
Stepan Arkadić, like all the guilty husbands, who was very careful about the comforts of his wife, himself examined the house and made orders about everything, according to his concept, necessary.
According to his concept, it was necessary to cross the whole furniture with a creton, to hang the gardens, to clean the garden, to make a bridge at the grid and to plant flowers; but he forgot many other necessary things, the lack of which later tormented Darya Alexandrovna.
No matter how Stepan Arkadić tried to be a careful father and husband, he could not remember that he had a wife and children.
He had cool flavours, only he thought about them.
Returning to Moscow, he proudly announced to his wife that everything was prepared, that the house would be a toy and that he strongly advised her to go.
Stephan Arkadic's wife's departure to the village was very pleasant in all respects: both the children were healthy, and the expenses were less, and he was more free.
Darya Alexandrovna considered the move to the village for the summer necessary for the children, especially for a girl who couldn’t recover after the scarlatine, and, finally, to get rid of the little humiliation, the little debt to the drunken, the fisherman, the puppy who suffered her.
Furthermore, the departure was pleasant to her because she dreamed of bringing her sister Kitty to the village, who had to return from abroad in the middle of the summer, and she was prescribed a bathroom.
Kitty wrote from the water that nothing smiles her as much as spending the summer with Dolly in Ergushov, full of childhood memories for both of them.
The first time of rural life was very difficult for Dolly.
She lived in the village in her childhood, and she had the impression that the village is a rescue from all the urban troubles, that life there although not beautiful (with this Dolly was easily calmed), but cheap and comfortable: everything is, everything is cheap, everything can be reached, and the children are well.
But now, when the owner came to the village, she saw that it wasn’t all the way she thought.
On the other day after their arrival, the rain passed, and the night went in the corridor and in the children's room, so the beds were transferred to the living room.
There were no humans; of the nine cows, according to the sheep, some were bodily, others were the first cattle, the third old, the fourth dogs; neither oil nor milk were lacking even to children.
There was no eggs.
The chicken could not be reached; they cooked and cooked old, lily, lively pets.
It was not possible to get the grandmother to wash the floors - they were all on potatoes.
It was not possible to ride because one horse went away and crushed in the breath.
There was no place to swim, the whole shore of the river was overwhelmed by a sheep and opened from the road; even walking was not possible, because the sheep was entering the garden through a broken curtain, and there was one terrible bear, which was wiped and therefore, must be, wiped.
There was no closet for clothing. As they were, they were not closed and opened themselves when they passed through them.
There were no cushions and corchages; there was no cottage for the washing and even the smooth plate for the girl.
The first time, instead of quietness and resting at these terrible, from her point of view, disasters, Daria Alexandrovna was disappointed: she was troubled with all her strength, she felt the output of the situation, and every minute she kept the tears that turned to her eyes.
The Governor, the former Vachmister, whom Stephan Arkadić loved and determined from the Switzerland for his beautiful and respectful appearance, did not take any participation in the disasters of Darya Alexandrovna, said respectfully: "Not impossible, such a people is ugly," and did not help in anything.
The situation seemed outcomeless. But in the house of Oblonsky, as in all family houses, there was one invisible, but the most important and useful face - Matrina Filimonovna.
She calmed the barin, assured her that everything was formed (this was her word, and Matthew took him from her), and she herself, without hurry and without worries, acted.
She immediately met with the narrative and on the first day she drank tea with her and the narrative and discussed all the affairs.
Soon under the acasions the Maternity Club was founded, and here, through this club, consisting of the narrative, the old man and the counterman, the difficulties of life were gradually balanced, and a week later everything was formed.
The roof was destroyed, the cook, which was old, was delivered, the chicken was bought, the milk was delivered and the garden was buried by the sacrifices, the cottage was made a cottage, the shelves were made to the closets, and they began to open not arbitrarily, and the smooth plate, turned with a soldier’s dress, was lay from the hand of the chair to the comod, and in the girl’s smell it smelled.
Well here! “But you were disappointed,” said Matrina Filimonovna, pointing on the plate.
They even built a bathroom from slam shields.
Lily began to swim, and for Darya Alexandrovna fulfilled even in part her expectations, although not a quiet but comfortable rural life.
Silent with six children Daria Alexandrovna could not be. One was sick, the other could be sick, the third was lacking something, the fourth showed signs of bad nature, etc. etc.
Rarely, rarely, short calm periods were given.
But these troubles and concerns were the only possible happiness for Darya Alexandrovna.
Without that, she would remain alone with her thoughts about a man who didn’t love her.
But no matter how heavily the fear of illness, the most illness and evil were for the mother in terms of the signs of evil inclinations in the children, the children themselves had already paid her with little joy for her evil.
These joys were so small that they were invisible as gold in the sand, and in the bad moments she saw one sadness, one sand; but there were also good moments when she saw one joy, one gold.
Now, in the isolation of the village, she has become more and more aware of these joy.
Often, looking at them, she made every effort to convince herself that she was misleading, that she, as a mother, was addicted to her children; yet she couldn’t say to herself that she had beautiful children, all six, all in different generations, but those that are rare, and she was happy with them and proud of them.
At the end of May, when it was more or less organized, she received her husband’s response to her complaints about rural disorders.
He wrote to her, apologizing for not thinking about everything, and promised to come at the first chance.
This possibility was not presented, and until the beginning of June, Daria Alexandrovna lived alone in the village.
Petrovkami, on Sunday, Daria Alexandrovna travelled to lunch to share all her children.
Darya Alexandrovna in her thrilled, philosophical conversations with her sister, mother, friends very often surprised them with her freedom of thought about religion.
She had her own strange religion of methempsychosis, in which she firmly believed, little concerned about the dogmas of the church.
But in the family, she — and not only to show an example, but from all her soul — strictly fulfilled all the church requirements, and the fact that the children were not at the partition for about a year, very concerned her, and, with the full approval and sympathy of Matrena Filimonovna, she decided to do this now in the summer.
Daria Alexandrovna in a few days ahead thought about how to dress all the children.
Clothes were shed, rebuilt and washed out, rubbishes and rubbishes were released, rubbishes were shed and stripes were prepared.
One dress on Tanja, which took to shave an English woman, destroyed a lot of Darje Alexandrovne’s blood.
The English woman, crossing, made the outputs not on the place, too much pulled out her gloves and had completely broken her dress.
Tane hugged his shoulders so that it was painful to see. But Matrena Filimonovna thought to insert a clay and make a pelerin.
The case was fixed, but there was almost a dispute with the British.
In the morning, however, everything went well, and at nine o'clock - the time before which the grandmother was asked to wait with lunch - glowing joy, the broken children stood at the wing in front of the wheelchair, waiting for the mother.
In the wheelchair, instead of the departing Voron, stumbled, according to the protection of Matrina Filimonovny, the narrative of Burgo, and Daria Alexandrovna, detained with concerns about her toilet, dressed in a white cheese dress, went out to sit.
Daria Alexandrovna was dressed and dressed with care and enthusiasm.
Before she dressed for herself to be beautiful and to like; then, the older she became, the more unpleasant she became to dress; she saw how she swallowed. But now she was dressed again with pleasure and excitement.
Now she was dressed not for herself, not for her beauty, but so that she, as the mother of these beauty, did not break the general impression.
When she looked in the mirror for the last time, she was happy.
She was good. It’s not as good as she once wanted to be good on the ball, but it’s good for the goal she now meant.
There was no one in the church except the men and the palaces and their grandmother. But Darya Alexandrovna saw, or she seemed to have seen, the admiration excited by her children and her.
The children were not only beautiful in their charged dresses, but they were cute in how well they kept themselves.
Alisha, indeed, stood not quite well: he turned everything and wanted to see his jacket behind; but he was still unusually gentle.
She stood as big and looked at the little ones.
But the little girl, Lily, was beautiful with her naive surprise before everything, and it was hard not to smile when she said, “Please, some more.”
When they returned home, the kids felt that something celebrated was happening, and they were very calm.
Everything went well at home; but after breakfast Grisha began to sweat and, the worst, he did not listen to the British and was left without a sweet cake.
Darya Alexandrovna would not allow that day before punishment if she was here; but it was necessary to support the order of the English woman, and she confirmed her decision that Grisha would not have a sweet cake.
This destroyed a little general joy.
Grisha was crying, saying that Nicolanka was swallowed, but that he was not punished, and that he wasn't crying for the cake, he didn't care, but that he was unjust with him.
It was too sad, and Daria Alexandrovna decided, negotiating with the English woman, to forgive Grisha and went to her.
But here, passing through the hall, she saw a scene filling her heart with such joy that tears appeared on her eyes, and she forgived the criminal.
The punished was sitting in the hall on a corner window; under it was Tanya with a plate.
Under the form of the desire for lunch for dolls, she asked the British woman for permission to take her portion of cake to the children's room and instead brought her brother.
Continuing to cry about the injustice of the punishment he suffered, he ate the cake that he brought, and through the grief judged, “Eat alone, together we will eat... together.”
Tanja was first affected by grief for Grisha, then the consciousness of her virtue, and her tears were also in her eyes; but she, without rejecting, eaten her share.
When they saw the mother, they were scared, but when they looked into her face, they realized that they were doing well, they laughed, and with full cake mouths they began to tighten their smiling lips with their hands, and they smiled all their glowing faces with tears and cravings.
The Mother!The!
New white dress!
and Tania!
and grace! Mother spoke, trying to save her dress, but with tears on her eyes, smiling with a blessed, enthusiastic smile.
The new clothes were removed, they were told to wear the girls blues, and the boys old jackets and they were told to put the line — again, to the anger of the speaker, Burgo in the breath — to go for the fungi and to the bathroom.
The stone of the enthusiastic visg rose up in the children's room and didn't climb until the very departure to the bathroom.
The fungi picked up a whole basket, even Lily found a brass fungi.
Previously, Mrs. Gull was going to find and show her; but now she has found herself a big bridge, and there was a common enthusiastic scream: "Lily has found her bridge!"
Then they went up to the river, put the horses under the marks and went to the bathroom.
The dog of Terentius, attached to the tree of the horses removing from the vegetables, lie, primed the grass, in the shadow of the berry and smoked the tobacco, and from the bathroom to-- was carried to him the untouched children's fun whiskey.
Although it was troubling to look at all the children and stop their foolishness, although it was hard to remember and not to confuse all these pants, pants, pants with different legs and to link, stretch and bind pants and pants, Daria Alexandrovna, herself always loved the bathroom, considered it useful for the children, was not so pleased as this bathroom with all the children.
It was a great pleasure for her to take into her hands and catch these naked bodies and hear the joyful, the fearful screams; to see these breathing, with the open, the fearful, and the joyful eyes of the faces of these whispering hunters.
When half of the children were dressed, the bathroom came and the narrow grandmothers stopped and walked for the bedroom and the milk.
Matrena Filimonovna clicked one to let her dry the water-rushed shirt and shirt, and Daria Alexandrovna spoke with her grandmothers.
The grandmothers, who first laughed in the hand and didn’t understand the question, soon dared and talked, and immediately undercovered Darya Alexandrovna with the sincere love of the children they expressed.
“You’re a beautiful woman, white like sugar,” she said, loving the tanec and climbing her head. And the weak...
Yes, she was sick.
“That’s you, know you’re also bathing,” said the other woman on the breast.
“No, he’s only three months,” Daria Alexandrovna proudly replied.
And you go!
Do you have children?
There were four, two left: a boy and a girl.
I took the past meat.
And how much of her?
A different year.
What did you feed for so long?
Our habit: three positions.
And the conversation became the most interesting for Darya Alexandrovna: how was she born? What was sick? Where is my husband? Is it often?
Darie Alexandrovne didn’t want to leave the grandmother, so interesting she was talking with them, so completely one and the same were their interests.
The most pleasant thing to Darie Alexandrovne was that she clearly saw how all these women loved the most about how many children she had and how good they were.
The grandmothers smiled Darya Alexandrovna and insulted the English woman by the fact that she was the cause of this incomprehensible laughter for her.
One of the young grandmothers looked at the English girl who was dressed after all, and when she wore a third jacket, she couldn’t get rid of the comment: “You, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you.” She said, and everyone broke out.
Entoured by all the kidnapped, with wet heads, children, Daria Alexandrovna, with a plate on her head, had already come to the house when the dog said:
- Barin somewhat goes, it seems, covered, Daria Alexandrovna looked forward and rejoiced, seeing in a gray hat and a gray jacket the famous figure of Levin, who was going to meet them.
She was always happy to him, but now she was happy to see her in all her glory.
No one better than Lewin could understand her greatness.
When he saw her, he felt in front of one of the pictures of his imaginary future family life.
You are a insect, Daria Alexandrovna.
— Oh, how I’m glad! — she said, stretching her hand.
Glad, but not to know.
My brother lives.
I got a note from Steve that you are here.
From the poem? I was surprised to ask Daria Alexandrovna.
“Yes, he writes that you’ve moved, and he thinks that you’ll allow me to help you something,” said Levin and, saying this, suddenly disturbed and, interrupting the speech, silently continued to go under the line, breaking the lip flowers and cooking them.
He was confused by the assumption that Darie Alexandrovne would be unpleasant for the help of a third person in the case that her husband had to do.
Darje Alexandrovne really didn’t like this style of Stepan Arkadić to impose his family affairs on strangers. And she immediately realized that Levin understood it.
For this delicacy of understanding, for this delicacy and loved Levina Darya Alexandrovna.
“I realized, of course,” said Levin, “that’s just what you want to see me, and I’m very happy.
Of course, I imagine that you, the city owner, are here wild, and, if necessary, I am all to your services.
Oh no no! She said Dolly. “The first time was uncomfortable, and now everything was perfectly arranged thanks to my old grandmother,” she said, pointing to Matrenna Phillimonovna, who understood what they were talking about her, and to Levina, who smiled joyfully and friendly.
She knew him and knew that it was a good bride, and she wanted it to go well.
“Let me sit here, we’ll get here,” she said to him.
No, I will pass.
Children, who runs with me with horses?
The children knew Levin very little, they didn’t remember when they saw him, but they didn’t express to him that strange feeling of disgrace and disgrace that the children so often experience to adults who pretend to be people, and that they so often and painfully get.
Attraction in anything can deceive the most intelligent, insightful person; but the most limited child, no matter how skillfully it can be hidden, will recognize it and disregard it.
Whatever the disadvantages were in Levine, there was no sign in it and therefore the children expressed the same kindness to him as they found on the mother’s face.
At his invitation, the two elderly immediately jumped to him and fled with him as easily as if they fled with their grandmother, with Miss Gull or with their mother.
Lili also began to pray to him, and his mother gave her to him; he placed her on his shoulder and fled with her.
Don’t be afraid, don’t be afraid, Daria Alexandrovna! He said, gladly smiling to his mother, it is impossible for me to shake or ruin.
And, looking at his gentle, strong, carefully careful and too stressful movements, the mother calmed and joyfully and approvedly smiled, looking at him.
Here, in the village, with the children and with his sympathetic Darya Alexandrovna, Levin came to that, often found on him the children's fun location of the spirit, which Darya Alexandrovna loved in it.
Running with the children, he taught them gymnastics, mixed Miss Gull with his bad English language and told Dario Alexandrovne his lessons in the village.
After lunch, Daria Alexandrovna, sitting with him alone on the balcony, talked about Kitty.
Do you know? Kitty will come here and spend the summer with me.
The right? He said, exploding, and immediately, to change the conversation, he said, Do you send two cows?
If you want to count, please pay me five rubles a month if you don’t know.
No, thank you for it.
We have arranged.
Well, so I will look at your cows, and if you let, I will order how to feed them.
It’s all about food.
And Levin, to just distract the conversation, explained Darje Alexandrovne the theory of milk farming, which consists in the fact that cow is only a machine for processing food into milk, etc.
He said this and passionately wanted to hear the details about Kitty and feared it together.
He was frightened that he would be disappointed with such a difficult calm.
Yes, but all of this must be followed, and who will be? Daria Alexandrovna replied unwantedly.
She so now arranged her farming through Matrina Filimonovna that she didn’t want to change anything in it; and she didn’t believe the knowledge of Levin in agriculture.
The opinions that a cow is a machine to make milk were suspicious to her. She seemed that this kind of reasoning could only interfere with the economy.
She seemed all this much easier: that it was only necessary, as Matrena Filimonovna explained, to give Pestruhe and Belopachy more food and drink, and so that the cook did not take the mosaic from the kitchen for a dwarf cow.
It was clear.
And the discourse of milk and herb food was doubtful and unclear. Most importantly, she wanted to talk about Kitty.
“Kitty writes to me that she doesn’t want anything like loneliness and calm,” Dolly said after a silence.
Is her health better? He asked with enthusiasm Levin.
Thank God, it has been fine.
I never thought she had a breast disease.
Oh, I am very happy! - said Levin, and something touching, helpless appeared in Dolly's face while he said it and silently looked at her.
- Listen, Konstantin Dmitrych, - said Daria Alexandrovna, smiling with her good and a bit laughing smile, - why are you angry on Kitty?
“I’m not angry,” said Levin.
No, you are angry.
Why did you not come to us or to them when you were in Moscow?
“Daria Alexandrovna,” he said, red to the roots of the hair, “I’m even surprised that you, with your kindness, don’t feel that.
It’s not unfortunate for me when you know...
What do I know?
“You know that I made an offer and that I was rejected,” Levin spoke, and all that kindness he felt to Kitty a minute ago was replaced in his soul with the feeling of anger for insult.
Why do you think I know?
Because they all know it.
That’s what you’re wrong; I didn’t know it, though I guessed it.
A! So you know now.
I only knew that something was happening, that she was terribly suffering, and that she asked me never to talk about it.
And if she didn’t tell me, she didn’t tell anyone.
But what did you have?
Tell me.
I told you what was.
when?
When I was last with you.
“And you know what I’m going to tell you,” said Darya Alexandrovna, “it’s terrible, terribly sad for me.
You only suffer from pride.
“Maybe,” said Levin, “but...
She crossed him:
But she, poor girl, is terribly and terribly sad for me.
Now I understand everything.
“Well, Darya Alexandrovna, you apologize to me,” he said, standing up. Goodbye to me!
Daria Alexandrovna, to meet.
“No, stand,” she said, holding him in the hand. Stay and sit.
“Please, please, let’s not talk about it,” he said, sitting and while feeling that in his heart the hopes seemed to be buried.
“If I didn’t love you,” said Daria Alexandrovna, and her tears came to her eyes, “if I didn’t know you, how I know you...
The apparent feeling of the dead revived more and more, rising up and conquering the heart of Levin.
“Yes, I now understand everything,” continued Daria Alexandrovna. You can’t understand this; you, a man free and choosing, are always clear who you love.
But the girl in the position of expectation, with this female, the girl's shame, the girl who sees you, men, far away, takes everything to the word - the girl has and may have a feeling that she doesn't know what to say.
If the heart does not speak...
No, the heart says, but you think: you, men, have views of a girl, you go home, you approach, you look, you wait if you find what you love, and then when you are convinced that you love, you make an offer...
Well, it is not quite so.
Anyway, you make an offer when your love is mature or when you have a overwhelming between the two chosen ones.
The girl is not asked.
They want her to choose, and she can’t choose, and she only answers: yes and no.
“Yes, the choice between me and Vronsky,” Levin thought, and his dead man, who lived in his soul, died again and only painfully pushed his heart.
“Daria Alexandrovna,” he said, “so they choose clothes or I don’t know what to buy, not love.
The choice has been made, and the better... and repeat cannot be.
- Oh, pride and pride! - said Darya Alexandrovna, as if honoured him for the lowness of this feeling compared to the other feeling that some women know. “While you made Kitty’s proposal, she was in the position she couldn’t answer. There was a hesitation in it.
Variation: you or Vronsky. She saw him every day, she has not seen you for a long time.
Let’s put, if she was older, for me, for example, there could not be fluctuations in her place.
He was always opposed to me, and so it ended.
Levin remembered Kitty’s response.
She said, “No, it cannot be...
“Daria Alexandrovna,” he said dryly, “I appreciate your trust in me; I think you are wrong.
But, right or wrong, this pride that you so neglect makes it impossible for me any thought of Catherine Alexandrovna—you understand, it is absolutely impossible.
I will only say another thing: you understand that I am talking about the sister I love as my children.
I don’t say she would love you, but I just wanted to say that her refusal at that moment does not prove anything.
I don’t know! - jumping up, said Levin. If you knew how painful you were to me!
As if you had a child died, and they would say to you, but he would be such, such, and could live, and you would rejoice with him. And he died, died, died...
“How funny are you,” said Darya Aleksandrov with a sad smile, despite Levin’s excitement. “Yes, I now understand more and more,” she continued thoughtfully. Do you not come to us when Kitty is there?
No, I will not come.
Of course, I will not avoid Katarina Alexandrovna, but where I can, I will try to get her away from the trouble of my presence.
“You are very funny,” Darya Alexandrovna repeated, looking gently into his face. Well, well, as if we didn’t say anything about it. Why did you come, Tania? -Daria Alexandrovna told a French girl.
Where is my puppy, mom?
I speak French and you say the same.
The girl wanted to say, but she forgot how a puppy was in French; her mother told her and then in French she said where to find a puppy.
And that seemed unpleasant to Levine.
Everything now seemed to him in the house of Darya Alexandrovna and in her children is no longer as nice as before.
“And why does she speak French with children? He thought. How unnatural and false!
The children also feel that.
To learn in French and to learn from sincerity," he thought with himself, without knowing that Daria Alexandrovna has twenty times changed it, and yet, although to the damage of sincerity, found it necessary to teach this way to her children.
But where do you go?
and sit.
Levin stayed until the tea, but his fun disappeared, and he was unpleasant.
After the tea, he went out to the front veil to give horses, and when he returned, he stood up with Darya Alexandrovna excited, with a disturbed face and tears on his eyes.
While Levin went out, there was an event for Darya Alexandrovna, which suddenly destroyed all her today’s happiness and pride with the children.
Grisha and Tanya struggled for the ball.
Daria Alexandrovna, hearing a scream in the children's room, escaped and stopped them in a terrible form.
Tanya kept Grisha for her hair, and he, with an embraced evil face, was her curls where she got.
Something broke down in the heart of Darya Alexandrovna when she saw it.
As if the darkness had overcome her life: she realized that her children, whom she was so proud of, were not only the most ordinary, but even the bad, badly raised children, with brutal, wicked inclinations, evil children.
She couldn’t talk or think about anything else, and she couldn’t tell Levine her misfortune.
Levin saw that she was unhappy, and tried to comfort her, saying that this is nothing bad proves that all the children are treating; but, speaking this, in her heart Levin thought: "No, I won't break and speak French with my children, but I won't have such children: I just have to don't break, don't raise children, and they will be beautiful.
I won’t have such children.”
He forgived and went away, and she did not hold him.
In mid-July, the old man of the sister village, which was about twenty verts from Pokrovsky, appeared to Levin with a report on the course of the affairs and the rest.
The main income from the property of the sister was obtained for the golden lounges.
In the previous years, the damages were dealt with by men for twenty rubles for ten.
When Levin took the name to the management, he, examining the poses, found that they were more expensive, and set the price for a dozen twenty-five rubles.
The men did not give that price and, as Levin suspected, rejected other buyers.
Then Levin went there alone and ordered to remove the shelter with a part of the lease, a part of the shelter.
Their husbands prevented this innovation by all means, but the matter went, and in the first year for the loung was paid almost twice.
In the third and last year, the same opposition continued, and the cleaning went in the same order.
In this year the men took all the poses from the third part, and now the old man came to announce that the poses were removed and that he, afraid of the rain, invited the counterman, with him divided and counted already eleven master poses.
After uncertain answers to the question of how much the seed was on the main square, by the hurry of the old man who divided the seed without demand, over the whole tone of the man, Levin realized that there was something unclean in the seed, and decided to come and believe the matter.
After arriving at lunch in the village and leaving the horse to a friend of the old man, the husband of the brother, Levin went to the old man on a beekeeper, wanting to learn from him details about the cleaning of the seed.
The speaking gentle old man Parmenic joyfully accepted Levin, showed him all his business, told him all the details of his bees and the roughness of this year; but on the questions of Levin, he spoke uncertainly and unwantedly.
This further affirmed Levin in his assumptions.
He went down and looked at it. There could not be fifty trains in the stages, and in order to eradicate the men, Levin ordered now to call the riding seans of the submarines, to raise one stage and to move to the saray.
Only 32 trains came out.
Despite the old men’s confidence of the sena’s tumultuousness and how it was relieved in the stages, and of his divinity that everything was divine, Levin insisted on his own that the sena was divided without his order, and that he therefore did not accept this sena for fifty wagons in the stage.
After long disputes, the matter was decided to allow the men to accept these eleven stages, counting for fifty trains, for their share, and for the Lord's share to allocate again.
The negotiations and the division of Copen continued until midday.
When the last seed was divided, Levin, entrusting the rest of the observation to the counter, sat on the marked tail of the rainbow to the ground, loving the boiling of the people.
In front of him, in the fall of the river behind the bullshit, the threshold was joyful with the calling voices, the sandy vein was moving, and the broken seed was quickly pulled out by the bright-green oath of the grey bright valleys.
Following the grandmothers went men with villas, and from the valves grew widespread, high, swollen corners.
On the left side of the plain, the telgae greamed, and one after the other, submitted by the enormous navals, the landslides disappeared, and on their place the heavy trains of the suns were swallowed, swallowing on the back of the horses.
Remove the weather! Senna will be! - said the old man sitting under Levin. Tea is not Seno.
Just take the grain disappear, as they choose! he added, indicating the swallowed land. After lunch, half a good fresh.
The last, what is it? He screamed on the little one who, standing on the front of the body box and smashing the ends of the penny drives, walked away.
The last, my daddy! “The little boy screamed, holding the horse, and, smiling, looked at the joyful, smiling ruby grandmother, sitting in the body box, and went further.
Who is this?
The Son? He asked Levin.
“My little boy,” said the old man with a gentle smile.
What a young man!
Nothing is small.
Are you married?
I went to Phillip for the third year.
What, there are children?
What kind of children!
A whole year he didn’t understand anything, and he was ashamed,” the old man replied. Well the seno!
The tea is real! - he repeated, wanting to change the conversation.
Levin looked carefully at Vank Parmenov and his wife.
They wandered a land near him.
Ivan Parmenov stood on the train, receiving, balancing and tapping the enormous navals of the sen, which first with the clothes, and then with the villas, was gently given to him by his young beauty master.
The young grandmother worked easily, fun and comfortably.
The large, followed seno was not taken immediately to the villas. She first sprinkled it, sprinkled the villas; then, with a fast and fast movement, she drove on them with all the weight of her body, and immediately, sprinkled over the back stretched by a red piece, she spread out and, putting out the full chest from under the white curtain, with a gentle catch, she captured the villas with her hands and sprinkled the curtain high on the train.
Ivan quickly, apparently trying to get her away from every minute of excess work, captured, widespreadly opened his hands, gave the cap and sent her to the train.
Giving the last seed with the robbery, the grandmother scratched her sleeping pipe behind her neck and, repairing the white, unburned neck red plate, looked under the tape to bind the train.
Ivan taught her how to hang for the sheep, and something she told was loud.
In the expressions of both persons was seen a strong, young, recently awakened love.
The train was bound.
Ivan sprinkled and led for the occasion a good, saturated horse.
The grandmother jumped to the train of the grabble and with a steep step, stretching the hands, went to the gathered gorgeous grandmothers.
Ivan, leaving the road, entered the coast with other trains.
Babies with grabs on their shoulders, glowing with bright flowers and throwing with bells, funny voices, went behind the trains.
One brutal, wild grandmother’s voice stretched the song and touched it until it was repeated, and friendly, once again, half a hundred different, brutal and thin, healthy voices captured the same song from the beginning.
The grandmothers with the song approached Levin, and it seemed to him that the crowd of fun came over him.
The Tuchah went over, captured him, and the land on which he was lay, and the other land, and the train, and the whole lake with a distant field—all went into and fell under the size of this wild thrilled song with screams, switches, and cries.
Levina was jealous for this healthy fun, wanted to participate in the expression of this joy of life. But he couldn’t do anything and had to lie and look and listen.
When the people with the song escaped from the sight and hearing, the heavy feeling of trouble for their loneliness, for their body holiness, for their hostility to this world covered Levin.
Some of the most men who disputed with him for the sin, those whom he offended, or those who wanted to deceive him, these most men worshipped him joyfully and obviously had and could not have any evil or no mercy to him, but also memories that they wanted to deceive him.
It all drowned into the sea of joyful work. God gave day, God gave strength.
And the day and the strength are dedicated to work, and in it the reward itself. And for whom work?
What will be the fruit of labour? These considerations are strange and low.
Levin often loved this life, often felt a sense of jealousy to the people who lived this life, but today for the first time, especially under the impression of what he saw in the relationship of Ivan Parmenov to his young wife, Levin for the first time came clearly the idea that it depends on him to transform that so painful, vacant, artificial and personal life he lived into this labor, pure and common beautiful life.
The old man, who was sitting with him, has long gone home; the whole people have broken up.
The neighbors went home, and the distant gathered for dinner and night in the shore.
Levin, not noticed by the people, continued to lie on the ground and watch, listen and think.
The people who stayed for a night in the shore did not sleep almost all the short summer night.
First I heard a joyful conversation and a hobby for dinner, then again songs and laughter.
The whole long working day left no other trace in them except fun.
Before the morning, everything was silent.
Only nocturnal sounds were heard of the hostages and horses who flocked through the shore in the clouds that stood up before the morning.
Awakening, Levin stood up from the ground and, looking at the stars, realized that the night had passed.
“Well, what will I do?
How will I do that?” He said to himself, trying to express for himself all that he thought and felt in that short night.
Everything he thought and felt was divided into three separate moves of thought.
One—it was the rejection of his old life, of his useless knowledge, of his no-need education.
This denial gave him pleasure and was easy and easy for him.
Other thoughts and ideas were about the life he wanted to live now.
The simplicity, purity, legality of this life he clearly felt and was convinced that he would find in it that satisfaction, calmness and dignity, the absence of which he so painfully felt.
But the third series of thoughts turned on the question of how to make this transition from the old life to the new.
There was nothing clear to him.
Have a wife?
Have a job and need to work?
Leave the cover? Buying the land?
To join society? Marrying a peasant?
How will I do that? He asked himself again and found no answer. “But I didn’t sleep all night, and I can’t give myself a clear report,” he said to himself. I will explain afterwards.
This night decided my fate.
All of my previous dreams of family life are overwhelmed, not that, he said to himself. “It’s much easier and better...”
"How beautiful! - he thought, looking at a strange, precisely perlamutrous shell of white clouds, standing above his head in the middle of the sky. How beautiful it is in this beautiful night!
When did this corner form?
Recently I looked at the sky, and there was nothing on it—only two white stripes.
Yes, that’s how invisibly my views on life have changed!”
He went out of the lake and went on a long way to the village.
The wind rose, and it became gray, dark.
There was a dark minute preceding the ordinary light, the full victory of the light over the dark.
Rushing from the cold, Levin quickly walked, looking at the ground. “This is what? Someone goes,” he thought, hearing the bubbles, and lifted his head.
At forty steps from him, I will meet him, on the great road-muraque on which he walked, a fourth car was driving with weights.
The breathtaking horses complained of the wheels to the breathtaking, but the gentleman, sitting on the goats on the side, kept the breathtaking on the wheels, so that the wheels were running smoothly.
This was only what Levin noticed, and without thinking about who could drive it, he scratchedly looked into the car.
In the car, a old woman was sleeping in the corner, and at the window, apparently just awake, a young girl was sitting, holding with both hands behind the stripes of a white sheet.
Bright and thoughtful, all filled with the elegant and complex inner, strange Levin life, she looked through him at the hole of the rise.
At the moment that the vision had disappeared, the true eyes looked at him.
She recognized him, and surprising joy lighted her face.
He couldn’t be wrong.
Only one in the light was those eyes.
There was only one being in the light, capable of concentrating for him the whole light and meaning of life.
That was she.
It was Kitty. He realized that she was driving to Ergushovo from the railway station.
And all that worried Levin in that sleepless night, all the decisions he had made, all suddenly disappeared.
He with hatred remembered his dreams of marrying a peasant.
There only, in this rapidly removed and moving to the other side of the road car, there was only the possibility to solve the mystery of his life that so painfully engraved him in recent times.
She didn’t look any more.
The sound of the resor ceased to be heard, little stains were heard.
The dog showed that the car was going through the village, and they remained around the empty fields, the village ahead, and he alone, lonely and alien to everything, alone walking on the abandoned big road.
He looked at the sky, hoping to find there the roof that he loved and which represented for him the whole course of the thoughts and feelings of this night. There was nothing more like a rack in the sky.
There, in the unavailable height, a mysterious change has already occurred. There was no trace of the rope, and there was a flat, stretched over the whole half of the sky the cover of all the moisturizing and moisturizing bars.
The heavens glowed and glowed and with the same delicacy, but with the same inaccessibility responded to his questioning sight.
“No,” he said to himself, “no matter how good this life is, simple and working, I can’t return to it.
I love her.”
No one, except the closest people to Alexey Alexandrovich, knew that this in terms of the coldest and reasonable person had one, contrary to the general composition of his character, weakness.
Alexey Alexandrovich could not indifferently hear and see tears of a child or woman.
The kind of tears led him to a lost state, and he completely lost the ability to consider.
The governor of his office and the secretary knew this and warned the prayer that they shouldn’t cry if they don’t want to break their affairs.
“He will be angry and will not listen to you,” they said. And indeed, in these cases, the soul disorder, produced in Alexey Alexandrovich with tears, was expressed by hurrying anger.
“I can’t, I can’t do anything.
Let me go out!” He cried regularly in these cases.
When, returning from the jump, Anna announced to him about her relationship with Vronsky and immediately after that, closing her face with her hands, she cried, Alexey Alexandrovich, despite the anger caused in her, felt at the same time the flame of that mental disorder that always produced tears on him.
Knowing this and knowing that the expression in this moment of his feelings would be incompatible with the situation, he tried to hold in himself any manifestation of life and therefore did not walk and looked at it.
From this came that strange expression of mortality on his face, which so hit Anna.
When they came to the house, he put her out of the car and, having made an effort on himself, with the usual kindness forgiven her and said the words that did not commit him to anything; he said that tomorrow he will tell her his decision.
The words of his wife, which confirmed his worst doubts, caused cruel pain in the heart of Alexey Alexandrovich.
This pain was strengthened by the strange sense of physical regret to her, which her tears produced on her.
But, leaving alone in the car, Alexey Alexandrovich, to his surprise and joy, felt perfect liberation from this regret and from his last time suffering doubts and suffering of jealousy.
He experienced the feeling of a man who had a long sick tooth. After a terrible pain and a feeling of something huge, greater than the head, pulled out of the scalp, the sick suddenly, unbelieving his happiness, feels that there is no more that has so long poisoned his life, attracted all attention to himself, and that he can again live, think and be interested in no one of his teeth.
This feeling was experienced by Alexey Alexandrovich. The pain was strange and terrible, but now it has passed; he felt that he could live again and think not about one wife.
Without honor, without heart, without religion, a broken woman!
This I always knew and always saw, although I tried, regreting her, to deceive myself,” he said to himself.
And it really seemed to him that he had always seen it; he reminded the details of their past life, which before did not seem to him anything bad; now these details clearly showed that it was always broken.
“I made a mistake by linking my life with it; but there is nothing bad in my mistake, and therefore I can’t be unhappy.
The fault is not me, he said to himself, but she.
I have nothing to do with her.
It does not exist for me...”
Everything that reaches her and her son, to whom, just as to her, his feelings have changed, has ceased to occupy him.
One thing that occupied him now was the question of how the best, the most attractive, the most convenient for himself, and therefore the most righteous way to get rid of the dirt that she stumbled him in her fall, and to continue on her path of an active, honest and useful life.
“I can’t be unhappy that a neglected woman has committed a crime; I just have to find the best way out of the difficult situation in which she puts me.
“And I’ll find him,” he said to himself, “willing more and more. “I am not the first, I am not the last.” And, not to mention historical examples, starting with the refreshing in the memory of all the Beautiful Elena Menela, a whole number of cases of modern unbelief of wives to the men of the higher world arose in the imagination of Alexey Alexandrovich.
Darjalov, Poltavsky, Prince of the Caribbean, Count Pascudin, Dram...
Yes, and Dram... such an honest, business man...
Semenov, Chagin, Sigonin — reminded Alexey Alexandrovich. “Let’s put, some unreasonable ridicule falls on these people, but I’ve never seen anything but misfortune, and I’ve always sympathized with him,” Alexey Alexandrovich said to himself, although it was false, and he never sympathized with the misfortune of this kind, and the higher he appreciated himself, the more often there were examples of wives changing his husbands.
This is a misfortune that can be achieved by anyone. And that misfortune caught me.
The only thing is how to move this situation in the best way.”
And he began to review the details of the behavior of people who were in the same position as he.
“Darjalov walked on the duel...”
The duel in youth especially attracted the thoughts of Alexey Alexandrovich just because he was a physically slave person and knew it well.
Alexey Aleksandrovich could not think of the pistol directed on him without fear, and never used any weapons in his life.
This horror often forced him to think about a duel and compare himself to a position in which his life was to be in danger.
Having achieved success and a solid position in life, he has long forgotten this feeling; but the habit of feeling has taken its own, and the fear of its trouble and now has become so strong that Alexey Alexandrovich has long and from all sides thought about the question of the duel, although he had known that he would not fight in any way.
Without a doubt, our society is still so wild (not that in England), that very many – and among these many were those whose opinions Alexey Alexandrovich especially appreciated – will look at the duel from the good side; but what result will be achieved?
Let's put, I'll call for a duel, - continued Alexey Aleksandrovich about himself, and, lively imagining the night he'll spend after a call, and the pistol he's directed to him, he swallowed and realized that he'll never do it, - let's put, I'll call him for a duel.
Let's put, they'll teach me, - he continued to think, - they'll put, I'll throw the bag, - he said to himself, closing his eyes, - and it's going to be that I've killed him, - said Alexey Alexandrovich and shocked his head to remove these stupid thoughts. What is the meaning of killing a man in order to determine his attitude to the criminal wife and son?
I will also have to decide what to do with her.
But what is more likely and what will undoubtedly be, I will be killed or wounded.
I, an innocent man, a victim, either killed or wounded.
Even more meaningless.
But little of this; the challenge to a duel from my side will be an unfair act.
Do I not know that my friends will never allow me to do a duel – will they not allow the life of a state man, a need for Russia, to be in danger?
What will be?
It will be that I, knowing in advance that it will never come to danger, only wanted to give myself some false glow with this challenge.
It’s unfair, it’s false, it’s fraud to others and to yourself.
The duel is unthinkable, and no one expects it from me.
My goal is to ensure my reputation that I need to continue my activity without obstacles.”
The official activity, which was of great importance before in the eyes of Alexey Alexandrovich, was now significant to him.
Discussing and rejecting the duel, Alexey Aleksandrovich addressed the divorce — another exit chosen by some of the men he remembered.
Recalling all the known cases of divorces (these were very many in the highest, well-known society), Alexey Alexandrovich did not find any one where the purpose of the divorce was the one he meant.
In all these cases, the husband rejected or sold a false wife, and the same party, which was not responsible for the right to marry, entered into a fictitious, supposedly legalized relationship with the new husband.
In his case, Alexey Alexandrovich saw that the achievement of a legal, i.e. such a divorce, where only the guilty wife would be rejected, was impossible.
He saw that the complex conditions of life in which he was, prevented the possibility of the brutal evidence required by the law to disguise the crime of his wife; he saw that a certain subtility of this life would not allow the use of these evidence, if they were, that the use of these evidence would destroy him in the public opinion more than it was.
The attempt to divorce could only lead to a scandal process that would be a finding for enemies, for deceit, for humiliation of his high position in the light.
The main goal - to determine the situation with the least disorder - was not achieved by divorce.
In addition, during the divorce, even in the attempt to divorce, it was obvious that the wife broke the relationship with her husband and joined her lover.
And in the soul of Alexey Alexandrovich, despite the full now, as he seemed, negligent indifference to his wife, there remained one feeling to her — the desire that she could uninterruptedly connect with Vronsky, so that her crime would be beneficial to her.
One thought this so annoyed Alexey Alexandrovich that, just imagining it, he closed from inner pain and climbed and changed his place in the car and long after that, swallowed, covered his cabbage and bone legs with a smoke flame.
“In addition to the formal divorce, it was possible to act like the Caribbean, Pascudine and this good Dram, that is, to divorce with his wife,” he continued to think, calming; but this measure also represented the same discomfort of shame as in the divorce, and most importantly, it, just as the formal divorce, threw his wife in the arms of Vronsky.
“No, it is impossible, it is impossible! - Again to turn his pledge, he spoke loudly. “I can’t be unhappy, but she and he should not be happy.”
The sense of jealousy that suffered him during unknownness passed in the moment he was painfully pulled out his teeth with his wife’s words.
But this feeling was replaced by another: the desire that she not only did not celebrate, but received remuneration for her crime.
He did not recognize that feeling, but in the depth of his soul he wanted that she suffered for the violation of his peace and honour.
And, again recovering the conditions of the duel, divorce, divorce and again rejecting them, Alexey Alexandrovich convinced that the outcome was only one — to keep her with himself, hiding from the light what happened and used all the necessary measures to stop the connection and the most important — in what he himself did not acknowledge — to punish her.
"I have to announce my decision that, considering the difficult situation in which she put the family, all the other outcomes will be worse for both sides than the external status quo, and that such I agree to observe, but under a strict condition of the fulfilment from her side of my will, i.e. the cessation of the relationship with the lover," To confirm this decision, when it was already finally adopted, Alexey Alexandrovich - came another important consideration.
"Only with this decision I act and in accordance with the religion," he said to himself, "only with this decision I do not reject the criminal wife, but give her the opportunity to be corrected, and even - no matter how hard it will be for me - I devote part of my strength to the correction and salvation of her."
Although Alexey Alexandrovich knew that he could not have moral influence on his wife, that from all this attempt of correction nothing would come out except lies; although, experiencing these difficult moments, he had never thought about seeking guidance in religion—now, when his decision coincided with the demands, as he seemed, of religion, this religious sanction of his decision gave him full satisfaction and partial calm.
He was pleased to think that even in such an important life thing no one will be able to say that he did not act according to the rules of that religion whose flag he always held high among the general cooling and indifference.
Considering further details, Alexey Alexandrovich did not even see why his relationship with his wife could not remain almost the same as before.
Without a doubt, he will never be able to return her his respect; but there was and could not be any reason for him to disturb his life and suffer because she was a bad and false wife.
“Yes, the time will pass, all the time, and the relationships will recover from the past,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, “that is, they will recover to such a degree that I will not feel trouble throughout my life.
She must be unhappy, but I am not guilty and therefore I cannot be unhappy.”
Arriving to St. Petersburg, Alexey Alexandrovich not only completely stopped on this decision, but also made a letter in his head, which he would write to his wife.
In Switzerland, Alexey Aleksandrovich looked at the letters and papers brought from the ministry, and told him to bring for himself to the cabinet.
“To postpone and not to accept anyone,” he said at the question of the Swiss, with some pleasure, serving as a sign of his good mood, striking the word “not to accept”.
In the cabinet, Alexei Aleksandrovich walked twice and stopped at a huge written table, on which six candles had already been burned in front by the camardiner who had entered the cabinet, drowned with his fingers and sat down, searching for the written accessories.
When he put his locks on the table, he slept his head to the side, thought for a minute and began to write, without stopping for a second.
He wrote without reference to her and in French, using the place name "you", not having the character of the coolness it has in the Russian language.
“At our last conversation, I expressed my intention to inform you of my decision regarding the subject of this conversation.
After carefully considering everything, I write now in order to fulfill this promise.
My decision is as follows: no matter what your actions are, I do not consider myself entitled to break the nodes with which we are linked by power above.
The family cannot be destroyed by caprice, arbitrary or even by the crime of one of the spouses, and our life must go as it was before.
This is necessary for me, for you, for our son.
I am quite sure that you have regretted and regretted what serves the cause of this letter, and that you will help me to break out the cause of our dispute and forget what has passed.
Otherwise, you can assume yourself what awaits you and your son.
For all of this I hope to discuss more in detail at a personal date.
Since the day season is over, I would ask you to move to St. Petersburg as soon as possible, not later than Tuesday.
All necessary orders for your transfer will be made.
Please note that I attribute special importance to the fulfilment of this request.
A. Karenin
S. At the same time, you will write the money that you may need for your expenses.”
He read the letter and was pleased with them, especially that he remembered to add money; there was no cruel word or accusation, but there was no humiliation.
The main thing was the golden bridge to return.
By placing the letter and smoothing it with a large massive elephant knife and placing it in a container with money, he with the pleasure, which was always exciting in it by dealing with his well-established writings, called.
“You will send the courier to bring Anna Arkadievna to the house tomorrow,” he said and stood up.
- I listen, your superiority; do you order tea in the office?
Alexey Alexandrovich ordered to send the tea to the cabin and, playing with a massive knife, went to the chair with a lamp prepared and the beginning of the French book on evangelical inscriptions.
Over the chair was hanged an oval, in a golden frame, beautifully made by the famous artist the portrait of Anna. Alexey Alexandrovich looked at him.
The unprecedented eyes laughed and suddenly looked at him as in the last night of their explanations. Unbearably naked and exciting influenced Alexey Alexandrovich the look of the artist's perfectly made black circle on his head, black hair and white beautiful hand with an unknown finger covered by the rings.
Looking at the portrait from a minute, Alexey Alexandrovich swallowed so that his lips shaken and made the sound of "brr" and turned.
Suddenly sitting in the chair, he opened the book.
He tried to read, but he couldn’t restore in himself a very alive interest in the Evgubian inscriptions.
He looked at the book and thought about another.
He did not think of his wife, but of one of the recent complications in his state activities, which at that time was the main interest of his service.
He felt that he was deeper than ever, that he was now entering this complication, and that in his head was born – he could say without suffering himself – a capital thought, which must disrupt all this matter, raise it in his official career, destroy his enemies and thus bring the greatest benefit to the state.
As soon as the man, installing the tea, came out of the room, Alexey Alexandrovich stood up and went to the table.
Slowing the wallet to the middle of the current affairs, he with a slightly noticeable smile of self-satisfaction pulled out the pencil and drowned into the reading of the complex affairs he needed, relating to the upcoming complication. The complication was that.
The peculiarity of Alexey Alexandrovich, as a state man, that, to him one, the peculiar, characteristic feature that each emerging official has, that, along with his persistent ambition, retention, honesty and self-confidence, made his career, consisted in neglecting the paper officiality, in reducing the correspondence, as direct as possible, the attitude to the living matter and in economics.
It happened that in the famous commission on June 2 was presented a case on the irrigation of the fields of the Zaray Governorate, which was in the ministry of Alexey Aleksandrovich and presented a sharp example of the infertility of expenses and the paper relationship to the case.
Alexey Aleksandrovich knew that it was fair.
The case of irrigation of the fields of the Zaray Governorate was initiated by the predecessor Alexey Alexandrovich.
And indeed, this matter was spent and spent a lot of money and completely unproductive, and all this matter, obviously, could not lead to anything.
Alexey Alexandrovich, entering the position, immediately understood this and wanted to put his hands on that matter; but at the first time, when he felt still unbelievable, he knew that it touched too many interests and was unreasonable; then he, engaged in other matters, simply forgot about that matter.
It, like all things, went by itself, by the force of inertia.
(Many people were feeding by this work, especially a very moral and musical family: all the daughters played on string instruments.
Alexey Alexandrovich knew this family and was the father of one of his older daughters.)
The lifting of this case by the hostile ministry was, in the opinion of Alexey Aleksandrovich, unfair, because in each ministry there were and not such cases that no one, according to known official accuracy, had lifted up.
Now, if he had already been thrown this gloves, he boldly lifted it up and demanded the appointment of a special commission for the study and overthrow of the work of the commission for the irrigation of the fields of the Zaray Governorate; but he did not give any descent to those gentlemen.
He also demanded the appointment of a special commission on the arrangement of foreigners.
The case on the arrangement of foreigners was accidentally raised in the committee on June 2 and with energy supported by Alexey Aleksandrovich as unbearable delay on the pleasant state of foreigners.
In the committee, the case served as a reason for the dismissal of several ministries.
The ministry, hostile to Alexey Alexandrovich, proved that the situation of foreigners was very flourishing and that the alleged reorganization could destroy their prosperity, and if there is a bad thing, then this arises only from the failure of the ministry of Alexey Alexandrovich to comply with the measures prescribed by the law.
Now Alexey Alexandrovich was intended to demand: first, to form a new commission, to which it would be commissioned to investigate the state of foreigners on the site; second, if it turns out that the state of foreigners is actually the same as it is from the hands of the Committee of official data, then to be appointed another, new scientific commission to investigate the causes of this immune state of foreigners from the point of view: (a) political, (b) administrative, (c) economic, (d) ethnographic, (e) material and (e) religious; third, to be required by the hostile ministry information about the measures that were in the latter decade adopted by this ministry for the prevention of those conditions which are not in the current state of foreigners and in the current state of the state of the state of the state of the state of 18 and note to Article 36.
The color of revival covered the face of Alexey Alexandrovich when he quickly wrote the concept of these thoughts.
After writing the paper sheet, he stood up, called and sent a note to the governor of the office about delivering the necessary documents to him.
He stood up and walked through the room, he again looked at the portrait, swallowed and negligently smiled.
After reading a book about the Evgubian inscriptions and regaining interest in them, Alexey Aleksandrovich went to sleep at eleven, and when he, lying in bed, remembered the event with his wife, it seemed to him no longer in such a dark form.
Although Anna persistently and with anger opposed Wronsky, when he told her that her position was impossible, and promised her to open up all to her husband, in the depth of her soul she considered her position false, unfair, and with all her soul she wanted to change it.
Returning with her husband from the jump, in the moment of anxiety she told him everything; despite the pain she experienced at the same time, she was pleased with it.
After her husband left her, she told herself that she was happy that now everything will be decided, and at least there will be no lies and fraud.
She seemed undoubted that now her situation will be determined forever.
It may be bad, it is a new situation, but it will be certain, there will be no uncertainty and lies in it.
The pain she caused to herself and to her husband by saying these words will now be rewarded by the fact that everything will be determined, she thought.
That same evening she met Vronsky, but did not tell him what happened between her and her husband, though, in order to determine the situation, it was necessary to tell him.
When she woke up the next morning, the first thing she imagined was the words she said to her husband, and these words seemed so terrible to her that she couldn’t understand now how she could decide to say those strange brutal words, and couldn’t imagine what would come out of it.
But the words were said, and Alexey Alexandrovich left, said nothing.
“I saw Vronsky and didn’t tell him.
Even at the same moment he went away, I wanted to turn him and tell him, but I thought, because it was strange why I didn’t tell him in the first minute.
Why did I want and didn’t tell him?”
And in response to this question, a hot colour of shame flooded on her face.
She understood what kept her away from it; she understood that she was ashamed.
Her position, which seemed clear yesterday evening, suddenly appeared to her now not only unclear, but outgoing.
She was afraid of a shame she never thought about before.
When she just thought about what her husband would do, she had the worst thoughts.
She thought that now the ruler will come to throw her out of the house, that her shame will be proclaimed to the world.
She asked herself where she would go—when she was thrown out of the house, and she did not find the answer.
When she thought of Vronsky, she thought that he didn’t love her, that he’s already getting stuck with her, that she couldn’t offer herself to him, and felt hostile to him for it.
She seemed that the words she said to her husband and that she constantly repeated in her imagination, that she told them to everyone and that everyone heard them.
She couldn’t look in the eyes of the people with whom she lived.
She couldn’t decide to call the girl and even less to go down and see her son and governor.
The girl, who had been listening to her door for a long time, went into her room alone.
Anna looked questionably in her eyes and scaredly red.
The girl apologized for entering and said she seemed to have been called.
She brought her dress and a note.
The record was from Betty. Betty reminded her that this morning she will eat Lisa Merkel and the baroness Shgolz with her fans, Kalujsky and the old Stremov, for a croquet party.
“Come and see how to study patterns. I’m waiting for you,” she ended.
Anna read the note and breathed hard.
“Nothing, nothing is needed,” she said to Anushka, who restored the bottles and shorts on the cleaning table. I’m dressed and I’m going out.
Nothing, nothing is needed.
Anushka went out, but Anna didn’t get dressed, but she sat in the same position, leaving her head and her hands, and suddenly swallowed the whole body, wishing how to do some gesture, say something, and dying again.
She constantly repeated, “My God!
My God!”
But neither “God” nor “my” had any meaning for her.
The idea of seeking help for her position in religion was for her, despite the fact that she never doubted the religion in which she was raised, as strange as seeking help from Alexey Alexandrovich himself.
She knew in advance that the help of religion is possible only under the condition of rejection of what was the whole meaning of life for her.
She was not only hard, but she began to feel fear of a new, never experienced state of mind.
She felt that everything in her soul began to duplicate, as things sometimes duplicate in the tired eyes.
Sometimes she didn’t know what she was afraid of, what she wanted.
Whether she is afraid and wants what was, or what will be, and what she wants, she didn’t know.
“Oh what I’m doing!” She said to herself, suddenly feeling pain on both sides of her head.
When she remembered, she saw that she kept her hair with both hands around the whiskey and compressed them.
She jumped up and began to walk.
“The coffee is ready, and the mazeel and Sereza are waiting,” said Annuška, returning again and again put Anna in the same position.
The network?
What is the network? Suddenly reviving, Anna asked, remembering for the first time every morning the existence of her son.
- He apologized, it seems, - she answered, smiling, Annuška.
How did you blame?
The Persians were lying in the coal; yeah, they seemed to be lying one.
Remembrance of the son suddenly brought Anna out of the outgoing position in which she was.
She remembered the partly sincere, though very overwhelmed, role of the mother living for her son, which she took over in the last years, and with joy felt that in the state in which she was, she had a power independent of the position in which she became to her husband and to Wronsky.
This power was a son.
Whatever the situation she is, she cannot leave her son.
Let her husband be ashamed and throw her out, let Vronsky cool her and keep her independent life (she again with the yellow and guilt thought about it), she can’t leave her son. She has a purpose of life.
And she must act, act in order to ensure this situation with her son, so that he should not be taken from her.
Even as soon as possible, you must act as soon as possible until it is taken from her.
I have to take my son and leave. This is one thing she has to do now.
She had to calm and get out of this painful situation. The idea of the straight case, linked to the son, about to go somewhere with him now, gave her that calm.
She quickly dressed up, dropped down and with decisive steps entered the living room, where, as usual, she was waiting for coffee and Sereza with the governor.
Sereza, all in white, stood at the table under a mirror and, swallowing back and head, with an expression of the tension of attention that she knew in it and that he was like a father, something he did with the flowers he brought.
The governor was strict.
The network, as it often happened to him, screamed, “Oh, mom!” And he stopped in uncertainty: whether to go to the mother to heal and throw flowers, or to make a vineyard and go with the flowers.
The governor, having greeted, began to talk long and decisively about Sereza’s proceedings, but Anna did not listen to her; she thought about whether she would take her with her.
“No, I won’t take it,” she decided. I’m going to go alone with my son.”
“Yes, it’s very bad,” Anna said and, taking the son for the shoulder, not with a strict but slave look, disturbing and rejoicing the boy, looked at him and kissed him. “Let him be with me,” she said to the surprising governor and, without throwing out the hand of her son, sat behind a coffee-made table.
The mom!
I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m... I’m.
“Sea,” she said, as soon as the governor came out of the room, “it’s bad, but you’re not going to do that anymore?
Do you love me?
She felt that her tears appeared in her eyes. Can I not love him? She spoke to herself in her frightened and joyful look. Will he be with his father to kill me?
Will he not regret me?” The tears were already on her face, and to hide them, she stood up and almost escaped on the terrace.
After the terrible rain in the last days came a cold, clear weather. At the bright sun, flowing through the washed leaves, the air was cold.
She broke out from the cold and from the inner horror, with a new force that caught her in the clean air.
“Go, go to Mariette,” she said to Serezé, who came out behind her, and began to walk on the slumed coat of the terrace.
“Do they not forgive me, do they not understand how it could not be different?” She said to herself.
Standing down and looking at the wind-wrapping heights of the axis with washed, brightly glowing leaves on the cold sun, she realized that they will not forgive, that all and all to her will now be miserable, like this sky, like this green. And again she felt that her soul began to double.
“No need, no need to think,” she said to herself. We have to gather.
Where to?
when?
Who to take with me?
Yes, in Moscow, on the evening train. Annuška and Sereza, and only the most necessary things.
But first we have to write to them both.”
She quickly went to the house, to her office, sat to the table and wrote to her husband:
“After what happened, I can’t stay in your house anymore.
I go and take my son with me.
I do not know the laws, and therefore I do not know with whom of the parents the son should be; but I take him with me, because without him I cannot live.
Be generous, leave it to me.”
So far, she wrote quickly and naturally, but the call to his generosity, which she did not recognize in it, and the need to conclude a letter with something touching, stopped her.
“I can’t talk about my fault and regret because...”
She stopped again, found no connection in her thoughts.
“No,” she said to herself, “there is nothing to do,” and breaking the letter, she rewrite it, excluding the mention of generosity, and sealed it.
Another letter was to be written to Vronsky. “I announced my husband,” she wrote and sat for a long time, not being able to write further.
It was so brutal, so female.
“And then what can I write to him?” She said to herself.
Again, the colour of shame covered her face, her tranquillity was remembered, and the feeling of obsession for him forced her to break down on small pieces of sheets with a written phrase.
“Nothing is needed,” she said to herself and, putting a boulevard, went up, announced to the governor and the people that she is going to Moscow today, and immediately accepted the placement of things.
Thro the rooms of the house walked palaces, gardeners and lakes, carrying things.
The closets and the comodes were opened; they rushed twice into the shop for the beekeepers; a paper walked on the floor.
Two sandwiches, bags and attached plots were removed to the front.
The car and two carriers stood at the wing.
Anna, forgotten of the internal alarm, placed, standing in front of the table in her office, her road bag when Annuška turned her attention to the crash of the arriving crew.
Anna looked in the window and saw the wing of the courier Alexey Alexandrovich who called at the entrance door.
“Let’s know what it is,” she said, and with a quiet preparation for everything, placing her hands on her knees, sitting on a chair.
Lakey brought a thick package, written by the hand of Alexey Alexandrovich.
“The Kurier is ordered to bring an answer,” he said.
“Well,” she said, and as soon as the man came out, she broke the letter with the thick fingers.
A pack of untouched assignations sealed in the banderoll fell out of it.
She released the letter and began to read from the end.
“I made preparations for the transfer, I attribute importance to the fulfilment of my request,” she read.
She fled further, back, read everything, and again read the letter all first.
When she finished, she felt that she was cold and that there was a terrible misfortune that she did not expect.
She scared in the morning of what she said to her husband, and she wanted only one that these words were as if not said. And this letter acknowledged the words unspoken and gave her what she wanted.
“The right! Right to! She talked. Of course, he’s always right, he’s a Christian, he’s generous!
Yes, a low, ugly man!
And this no one, except me, understands and will not understand; and I cannot discern.
They say: religious, moral, honest, intelligent man; but they do not see what I have seen.
They don’t know how he breathed my life for eight years, breathed everything that was alive in me, that he never thought I was a living woman who needs love.
They don’t know how at every step he insulted me and remained pleased with himself.
Did I not try, with all my strength, to find the justification for my life?
Did I not try to love him, to love his son when he was no longer able to love his husband?
But the time came, I realized that I can’t cheat myself anymore, that I’m alive, that I’m not guilty, that God made me that I need to love and live.
And now what?
If he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me, if he killed me.
“How did I not imagine what he would do?
He will do what is characteristic of his low character.
He will remain right, and me, the dead, even worse, even lower will be destroyed...” “You can assume what awaits you and your son,” she recalled the words from the letter.
“It is a threat that he will take his son away, and probably according to their stupid law it is possible.
But I don’t know why he says that?
He does not believe in my love for the son or negate (as he always laughed), he negates this feeling, but he knows that I will not leave the son, I can't leave the son, that without the son there can't be life for me even with the one I love, but that by leaving the son and escaping from him, I will act as the most shameful, ugly woman - that he knows and knows that I will not be able to do it."
“Our life must go as before,” she recalled another phrase of the letter.
"This life has been painful before, it has been terrible in recent times.
And he knows all this, he knows that I can’t regret that I breathe, that I love; he knows that nothing will come from it except lies and fraud; but he must continue to torture me.
I know him, I know that he is like a fish in the water, swimming and enjoying lies.
But no, I will not give him this pleasure; I will break down his palm of lies in which he wants to confuse me; let it be.
Everything is better than lies and fraud.”
“But how?
My God! My God!
Has a woman ever been as miserable as me?
— No, break up, break up! — she screamed, jumping and holding tears.
And she came to the table to write another letter to him. But in the depths of her soul she has already felt that she will not be able to break down anything, will not be able to get out of this former situation, as it is neither false nor unfair.
She sat to the writing table, but instead of writing, put her hands on the table, put her head on them and cried, swallowing and swallowing all the chest as the children cry.
She was crying that her dream of understanding, determining her position was destroyed forever.
She knew that everything would remain as old, and even much worse than the old.
She felt that the position in the light she used and that in the morning seemed so low to her, that it was so expensive to her, that she would not be able to transform it into the shameful position of a woman who left her husband and son and joined her lover; that no matter how much she tried, she would not be stronger than herself.
She will never experience the freedom of love, and will forever remain a criminal wife, under the threat of a minute of clothing, cheating her husband for a shameful connection with a stranger, independent man with whom she can’t live a single life.
She knew it would be so, and at the same time it was so terrible that she could not even imagine how it would end.
And she was crying, not standing as the punished children were crying.
Lake's heard steps forced her to wake up, and, hiding her face from him, she concealed what she wrote.
- The courier asks for an answer, - said Lakey.
The answer?
Yes, — said Anna, — let me wait. I will call.
“What can I write? She thought. What can I decide alone?
What do I know?
What do I want?
What do I love?”
She once again felt that her soul began to double. She was scared again of that feeling and captured the first proof of activity that could distract her from thinking about herself.
“I have to see Alexey (so she thoughtly called Vronsky), he alone can tell me what I have to do.
I’ll go to Betty; maybe there I’ll see him,” she said to herself, completely forgotten that yesterday, when she told him that he would not go to the princess of Tversky, he said that therefore he would not go.
She came to the table and wrote to her husband, "I got your letter. “A.” After calling, I gave a lacky.
“We’re not going to go,” she said to Annuška.
We’re not eating?
– No, don’t break until tomorrow, and leave the car.
I go to the princess.
What dress to prepare?
The croquet party society, to which the princess Tverskaya invited Anna, had to consist of two ladies with their fans.
These two ladies were the main representatives of the newly elected St. Petersburg circles, which were called, in the imitation of something, les sept merveilles du monde.
These ladies belonged to the circle, indeed, the highest, but completely hostile to what Anna visited.
In addition, the old Stremov, one of the influential people of St. Petersburg, a fan of Lisa Merkel, was in service the enemy of Alexey Alexandrovich.
For all these reasons, Anna didn’t want to go, and to this her refusal were the clues of the notes of the princess of Tversky.
And now, Anna, hoping to see Vronsky, wanted to go.
Anna came to the princess of Tverska before other guests.
While she was entering, the Lakey of Vronsky with scattered backenbards, similar to the camera-yunker, was also entering.
He stopped at the door and, removing the food, missed it.
Anna knew him and here she just remembered that Vronsky said yesterday that he would not come.
He probably sent a note about it.
She heard, drawing up the upper dress in the front, like a lacky, speaking even r, like a camera-yunker, saying "from the Count to the Princess" and sent the note.
He asked where his barin was. She wanted to go back and send him a letter for him to come to her, or to go to him.
But none of that, none of the other, none of the third could not be done: the calls were already heard in front of the announcement of her arrival, and the princess Tverskaya was already in the middle of the open door, waiting for her passing into the inner rooms.
The princess is in the garden.
Would you like to go to the garden? I put another lacky in another room.
The situation of insolvency, uncertainty was all the same as at home; even worse, because it was not possible to do anything, it was not possible to see Vronsky, but it was necessary to stay here, in a strange and so opposite mood of her society; but she was in the toilet, which, she knew, went to her; she was not alone, around was this usual festive atmosphere of celebration, and it was easier for her than at home; she shouldn’t have to imagine what to do.
Everything was done by itself.
When she met her sexy Betty in white, shocking her with her elegance, toilet, Anna smiled to her as always.
Princess Tverskaya went with Tushkiewicz and her family, to the great pleasure of the provincial parents who spent the summer with the famous princess.
Probably there was something special in Anna because Betty immediately noticed it.
“I slept badly,” Anna noticed, looking into the lake that was going to meet them and, for her reason, noted the note of Vronsky.
“How I’m glad you’ve come,” said Betty. I was tired and just wanted to drink a cup of tea until they came. And you would go, - she turned to Tushkevich, - with Masha would try the crocott ground where they cut.We and you will be able to talk about the tea, we'll have a cosy chat, isn't it? She turned to Anne with a smile, pressing her hand, putting her sonic.
Moreover that I can’t stay with you for a long time, I need to go to the old Fault. I promised for a hundred years, — said Anna, for whom a lie, alien to her nature, has not only become simple and natural in society, but even brought pleasure.
Why she said what she didn’t think in a second, she couldn’t explain.
She said this only for the reason that as Vronsky will not be, she must ensure her freedom and try to see him somehow.
But why she just said about the old freelin Vrede, which she needed, like many others, she’t know how to explain, and along with what later turned out, she, inventing the smartest means to meet with Vronsky, couldn’t find anything better.
“No, I don’t want you to do anything,” Betty replied, looking at Anna’s face carefully. I would hurt myself if I didn’t love you.
It’s just you’re afraid that my society can compromise you.
Please give us a tea in a small living room,” she said, as always, touching her eyes when addressing the lake.
Having taken a note from him, she read it. “Alexey made us a false jump,” she said in French, “he writes that it can’t be,” she added a natural, simple tone as if she could never come to her mind, so that Vronsky would have an other meaning for Anna than a croquet player.
Anna knew that Betty knew everything, but when she heard her talk about Wronsky, she always convinced for a minute that she didn’t know anything.
A! Anna said indifferently, how little she was interested in it, and continued to smile: How can your society compromise someone? This game of words, it’s hiding the secret, as for all women, was great for Anna.
And not the need to hide, not the purpose for which it was hidden, but the process of hiding itself attracted it. “I can’t be more Catholic than the Pope,” she said. Stremov and Lisa Merkel are the slides of society.
Then they were accepted everywhere, and I — she especially hit me — was never strict and intolerant. I just once.
– No, you don’t want, maybe, to meet with Stremov?
Let them and Alexey Alexandrovich break the copies in the committee, it doesn’t matter to us.
But in the light, he is the most kind person I know, a passionate player in the crackets.
Here you will see.
And, despite his funny position of the old lover in Lisa, you have to see how he gets out of this funny position!
He is very gentle.
Safo Coulz, do you know?
This is a new, completely new tone.
Betty said all this, and in the meantime, by her fun and intelligent look, Anna felt that she partially understood her position and something was tightening.
They were in a small office.
But you have to write to Alexey, and Betty sat at the table, wrote a few lines, put it in the cover. I tell him to come for lunch.
I have one lady for lunch without a man.
Look, is it convincing?
I will leave you for a minute.
You, please, seal and send away, she said from the door, and I have to make orders.
No minute without thinking, Anna sat with Betty's letter to the table and, without reading, wrote down: "I need to see you.
Come to the garden.
I will be there at 6 p.m.”
She sealed, and Betty, returning, gave her a letter.
Indeed, after the tea they brought on the table in a cool small living room, a cosy chat was connected between the two women, as the princess Tverskaya promised before the arrival of the guests.
They persecuted those they expected, and the conversation stopped at Lisa Merkel.
“She’s very cute and she’s always been nice to me,” Anna said.
You must love her. She will hurt you.
Yesterday she came to me after the leap and was desperate that she didn’t stop you.
She says that you are the real heroine of the novel and that if she was a man, she would do a thousand stupidities for you.
Strems tell her that she is doing it.
“But say, please, I could never understand,” Anna said, “being silent for a while and in a ton that clearly showed that she did not make a vacant question, but that what she asked was more important to her than it should be. Tell me, please, what is her attitude to Prince Kalujsky, the so-called Mishka?
I met them very little.
What is it?
Betty smiled with her eyes and looked at Anna carefully.
“A new way,” she said. They all chose this way.
They dropped the cheeks for the mills.
But there is a way and a way to leave them.
-Yes, but what is your relationship with Kalujsky?
Betty suddenly funny and unbearably laughed that rarely happened to her.
- This is you capture the area of Princess Soft.
It’s a question of a terrible child, and Betty, apparently, wanted, but couldn’t stand up and broke out of the infectious laughter that rarely laughing people laughed. “You have to ask them,” she spoke through tears of laughter.
“No, you’re laughing,” said Anna, also accidentally infected with laughter, “but I couldn’t understand it.
I don’t understand the role of my husband.
The husband?
Her husband, Lisa Merkel, is always ready for service.
And what there is further in reality, no one wants to know.
You know, in a good society they don’t talk or even think about some details of the toilet.
So and that.
Are you going to celebrate Rolandas? She asked Anna to change the conversation.
“I don’t think,” Betty answered, and without looking at her girlfriend, she was cautiously filling a little transparent cup of warm tea.
Throwing the cup to Anne, she got a pachitosque and, putting it in a silver hand, smoked it.
“Hey, you see, I’m in a happy position,” she started without laughter, taking a cup in her hand. I understand you and I understand Lisa.
Lisa is one of those naive natures who, like children, don’t understand what’s good and what’s bad.
At least she didn’t understand when she was very young.
And now she knows that this misunderstanding goes to her.
Now she may not deliberately understand, — said Betty with a thin smile. But it still goes for her.
You see, you can look at the same thing tragically and make it painful, and look simple and even fun.
You may have a tendency to look at things too tragically.
“How much I would like to know others as I know myself,” Anna said seriously and thoughtfully. I am worse than others, or better? I think worse. “A terrible child, a terrible child,” Betty repeated. But here are they too.
The steps and the male voice were heard, then the female voice and the laughter, and then the expected guests entered: Safo Tholz and the glowing health surplus young man, the so-called Vaska.
It was apparent that he was eaten with blood beef, truffles and bourgeois.
Vaska worshipped the ladies and looked at them, but only for a second.
He entered Saphos into the living room, and went through the living room, as if he was bound to her, and did not drop the bright eyes from her, as if he wanted to eat her.
Safo Coulz was a blonde with black eyes.
She entered small, boyfriendly, on rough pants shoes, steps and strongly, male-shaped the ladies' hands.
Anna never met this new celebrity and was surprised by her beauty and the extreme to which her toilet was brought, and the courage of her style.
On her head of its own and other gentle-gold-light hair was made such a shadow of hair that her head was equal to the size of a thin-broken and very open in front of the chest.
The aspiration toward was such that in every movement the shapes of the knees and the upper leg were marked under the dress, and the question of where behind, in this mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous.
Betty quickly met her with Anna.
“You can imagine, we’ve just divided two soldiers,” she immediately began to tell, smiling, smiling, and rejecting her tail, which she suddenly overwhelmed to one side. I was driving with Vasco.
Oh yeah, you are unknown. And she, calling his name, introduced the young man and, red, laughed loudly to her mistake, that is, to the fact that she called him the unknown Vasco.
Vaska worshipped Anna again, but said nothing to her.
He turned to Safo: “The money is lost. We came before.
Pay off, he said with a smile.
Safo laughed even more fun.
“Not now,” she said.
Anyway, I will get it later.
Well, well and well.
Oh yeah! Suddenly she turned to the master, and I was good.
I have forgotten...
I brought you a guest.
Here is he...
The unexpected young guest to whom Safo brought and whom she forgot was, however, such an important guest that, despite his youth, both ladies stood up meeting him.
It was the new fan of Saphos. He now, like Vasa, followed her on the fifth.
Soon came the prince Kalujsky and Lisa Merkalova with Stremov.
Lisa Merkel was a weak brunette with an east-line face type and beautiful, unclear, as everybody said, eyes.
The character of her dark toilet (Anna immediately noticed and appreciated it) was perfectly matching her beauty.
So hard as Safo was, so soft as Lisa was, so soft as she was.
But Lisa, to the taste of Anna, was much more attractive. Betty told Anna that she took the tone of an unknown child, but when Anna saw her, she felt that it was false.
She was an unknown, broken, but cute and irresponsible woman.
Indeed, the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos, and the tone of Saphos was the same as the tone of Saphos. This brightness glowed out of her beautiful, truly unclear eyes.
The tired and together passionate look of those surrounded by a narrow circle of eyes shocked with their perfect sincerity.
Looking in these eyes, it seemed to everyone that he knew it all and, when he realized, he couldn’t do not love it. When she saw Anna, all her face suddenly illuminated with a joyful smile.
— Oh, how glad I’m seeing you! — she said, I’m coming to her. I just wanted to get to you on the racing yesterday, and you left. I wanted to see you yesterday. Isn’t it true, it was terrible? She said, looking at Anna with her eyes, which seemed to open up the whole soul.
“Yes, I didn’t expect it to be so worried,” said Anna, red.
The community came up at that time to go to the garden.
“I’m not going,” said Lisa, smiling and sitting to Anne. Would you not go too? What a hunt to play the crocott!
“No, I love it,” Anna said.
How do you do that you don’t get bored?
I’ll look at you – fun.
You live and I miss you.
How do you miss?
“You are the most fun society in St. Petersburg,” Anna said.
Per those who are not in our society are even more boring; but we are probably not fun, but terribly, terribly boring.
Safo, smoking the papyrus, went to the garden with two young people.
Betty and Stretch remained behind the tea.
How is it boring? She said Betty. Safo says they’ve been very fun with you yesterday.
Oh, that was a toss! She said Lisa Merkel. We went all to me after the leap.
All the same, and all the same.
All the same.
We went on the sofa all night.
What is fun here?
How do you do so that you don’t get bored? She turned to Anna again. “It’s worth looking at you, and you see, here’s a woman who can be happy, unhappy, but doesn’t miss.
Learn how you do it? “I don’t do anything,” Anna answered, red from these attaching questions.
“This is the best way,” he interfered with Stretch’s conversation.
Stremov was a man of fifty years old, half seated, still fresh, very unpleasant, but with a characteristic and smart face.
Lisa Merkel was the grandmother of his wife, and he spent all his free hours with her.
Meeting Anna Karenina, he, in the service of the enemy Alexey Alexandrovich, as a secular and intelligent man, tried to be with her, the wife of his enemy, especially kind. “No way,” he captured, smiling thinly, it’s the best way.
I have been telling you for a long time, - he addressed Lisa Merkel, - that in order not to be boring, you should not think it will be boring. It’s like not to be afraid that you won’t fall asleep if you’re afraid of insomnia.
That’s what Anna Arkadievna said to you.
“I would be very happy if I said this because it’s not just smart, it’s true,” Anna said, smiling.
Don’t you say why you can’t sleep and don’t miss it?
To sleep, you have to work, and to have fun, you have to work too.
Why do I work when no one needs my job?
I do not know and do not want to pretend intentionally.
“You are incorrect,” Stremov said, without looking at her, and again turned to Anna.
He rarely met Anna, he couldn’t say anything to her except passages, but he talked these passages, about when she’s moving to St. Petersburg, about how she’s loved by Count Lydia Ivanovna, with such an expression that showed that he from all his heart wants to be pleasant to her and to show her respect and even more.
Tushkiewicz entered, announcing that the whole society is waiting for players in the step.
“No, don’t leave, please,” asked Lisa Merkel when she learned that Anna is leaving.
Stretch joined her.
“It’s too big contrast,” he said, “to go after this society to the old Vrede.
And then for her you will be an opportunity to blame, and here you will only raise other, the best and the opposite of the evil feelings,” he said to her.
Anna thought for a moment of insolvency.
The steep speeches of this intelligent man, the naive, childish sympathy that Lisa Merkel expressed to her, and all this usual world-situation—this was so easy, and it was so difficult to expect her, that she was unresolved for a minute, whether to stay or not to give another difficult minute of explanation.
But remembering that she is waiting for her one home, if she does not make any decision, remembering that terrible for her and in remembrance of the gesture when she took her both hands for her hair, she forgived and left.
Wronsky, despite his lightly thoughtful world life, was a man who hated disorder.
Still, when he was in the body, he experienced the humiliation of rejection, when he, confused, asked for money loans and since then he has never put himself in such a position.
In order to always conduct his affairs in order, he, despite the circumstances, often or rarely, five times a year, isolated and clarified all his affairs.
He called it counting, or doing the lessive.
Wake up late on the other day after the leap, Vronsky, not swallowing and not swimming, dressed in a cottage and, putting money, bills, letters on the table, took the job.
Petritsky, knowing that in such a position he was angry, awakened and saw the companion behind the writing table, silently dressed and went out, not disturbing him.
Each person, knowing to the smallest details all the complexity of the circumstances surrounding him, involuntaryly assumes that the complexity of these conditions and the difficulty of their understanding is only his personal, random characteristic, and does not think that others are surrounded by the same complexity of his personal conditions as he himself.
So it seemed to Vronsky.
And he did not without inner pride and without reason think that any other would long be confused and forced to do bad if he was in the same difficult conditions.
But Vronsky felt that it was now he needs to take into account and clarify his position in order not to get confused.
The first thing for which, as the easiest, Wronsky took was money.
Writing his small post on the mail sheet all that he ought to do, he summarized and found that he ought to pay twelve thousand with the hundreds he gave out for clarity.
Having counted the money and the bank account, he found that he had a thousand eight hundred rubles left, and the receipt before the New Year will not be predicted.
Listing the list of debts, Vronsky rewrite it, dividing it into three divisions.
The first class included debts that had to be paid right now or, in any case, for the payment of which had to have finished money, so that there could not be minutes of delay when requested.
Such debts were about four thousand: a thousand five hundred for a horse and two thousand five hundred for the young companion of Venevsky, who at Vronsky lost the money to the shuller.
Wronsky then wanted to give the money (they were with him), but Venevsky and Yashvin insisted that they would pay, not Wronsky, who didn’t play.
All this was great, but Vronsky knew that in this dirty case, in which he even took part only by taking a lunch for Venevsky, he had to have these two thousand five hundred to throw them out to the fraud and not have any more conversations with him.
So, on this first important section had to have four thousand.
In the second section, eight thousand, there were less important debts. These were debts mainly on the jumping canyon, the supplier of sheep and seed, the English, shornik, etc.
For these debts it was also necessary to distribute a thousand two, in order to be completely calm.
The last debt department — in shops, hotels and ports — were those of which there was nothing to think about.
So it needed at least six thousand for current expenses, and it was only a thousand eight hundred.
For a man with a hundred thousand income, as all the states of Vronsky were determined, such debts could not seem to be difficult; but the matter is that he was far from having those hundred thousand.
The enormous father’s status, bringing one to two hundred thousand annual revenue, was inseparable among the brothers.
While the elder brother married, having a lot of debt, to the princess Vare Chirkova, the daughter of the Decabrist, without any condition, Alexey gave the elder brother all the income from his father's possessions, telling himself only twenty-five thousand a year.
Alexey then told his brother that this money would be enough for him until he married, which probably will never be.
And the brother, commanding one of the most expensive regiments and just married, could not fail to accept this gift.
The mother, having her separate status, in addition to the twenty-five thousand spoken, gave Alexey a thousand twenty more each year, and Alexey lived all of them.
Recently, his mother, struggling with him for his connection and the departure from Moscow, stopped sending money to him.
And as a result, Vronsky, having already made a habit of life for forty-five thousand and having only received twenty-five thousand this year, was now in trouble.
To get out of this difficulty, he couldn’t ask for money from his mother.
Her last letter, which they received the day before, especially irritated him that it contained indications that she was ready to help him to succeed in the light and in the service, and not to a life that scandalized all the good society.
The desire of his mother to buy him offended him to the depths of his soul and even more cooled to her.
But he could not give up the generous word, though he felt now, confusingly predicting some of the coincidences of his relationship with Karenina, that this generous word was said easily and that he, unmarried, might need all a hundred thousand revenue.
But we could not deny.
He was just worth remembering his brother's wife, remembering how this sweet, glorious Varia in every convenient case reminded him that she remembered his generosity and appreciated him to understand the impossibility of taking it back.
It was as impossible as to catch a woman, steal or lie.
It was possible and should one thing that Vronsky decided without a minute of hesitation: to take the money from the rooster, ten thousand, in which there can be no difficulties, to cut their expenses at all and to sell jumping horses.
After resolving this, he immediately wrote a note to Rolandaki, sent to him several times with a proposal to buy horses from him.
Then he sent to the Englishman and to the grower and dissolved the money he had on his accounts.
After completing these affairs, he wrote a cold and sharp response to the mother's letter.
Then, delivering from the paper three notes of Anna, he read them, burned and, remembering his yesterday's conversation with her, thought.
Wronsky's life was happy that he had a set of rules that definitely determined everything that should and should not be done.
The composition of these rules covered a very small circle of conditions, but the rules were undoubted, and Vronsky, never out of this circle, never hesitated for a minute in fulfilling what should be.
These rules have undoubtedly defined—that you have to pay to the shuller, and that you don’t have to pay to the port, that you don’t have to lie to men, but women can, that you can’t lie to anyone, but your husband can, that you can’t forgive offenses, and that you can offend, and so on.
All these rules could be unreasonable, bad, but they were undoubted, and, fulfilling them, Vronsky felt that he was calm and could hold his head high.
Only recently, about his relationships with Anne, Vronsky began to feel that the summary of his rules did not fully determine all the conditions, and in the future there were difficulties and doubts in which Vronsky no longer found a guiding thread.
His current attitude to Anne and her husband was simple and clear to him.
It was clearly and accurately defined in the summary of the rules that he guided.
She was a decent woman who gave him her love, and he loved her, and therefore she was for him a woman worthy of the same and even more respect than the lawful wife.
He would give himself a hand before allowing himself a word, suggesting not only to offend her, but not to show her the respect that a woman can only count on.
The relationship with society was also clear.
Everyone could know, suspect it, but no one had to dare to speak. Otherwise, he was ready to force the speakers to silence and respect the unexisting honor of the woman he loved.
The relationship with my husband was clear.
From the moment Anna loved Vronsky, he considered one of his rights to her unnecessary.
The husband was only an inexpensive and disturbing face.
Without a doubt, he was in a bad situation, but what should I do?
One thing the husband had the right to, it was to demand satisfaction with the weapon in his hands, and for that Wronsky was ready from the first minute.
But recently there have been new, internal relations between him and her, which scared Vronsky with his uncertainty.
She only told him that she was pregnant. And he felt that this news and what she expected from him demanded something that was not fully defined by the code of the rules that he was guided in life.
And indeed, he was taken shocked, and at the first minute she announced her position, his heart told him the demand to leave his husband.
He said this, but now, considering, he saw clearly that it would be better to do without it, and at the same time, saying it to himself, he was afraid — is it not bad?
“If I said to leave my husband, it means to join me.
Are I ready for that?
How can I bring it now when I don’t have money?
Let’s put it, I could arrange it... But how can I bring it when I’m in service?
If I said this, then you have to be ready for it, that is, have money and resign.”
And he thought.
The question of going out or not to resign, led him to another, secret, one known to him, hardly the main, although hidden interest of his whole life.
Honesty was the old dream of his childhood and youth, a dream in which he did not recognize himself, but which was so strong that still this passion fought with his love.
His first steps in the light and in service were successful, but two years ago he made a grave mistake.
He, wishing to express his independence and to move, renounced the position proposed to him, hoping that this rejection would give him a great price; but it turned out that he was too brave and left him; and, unwillingly making himself the position of a man independent, he carried him, very thin and intelligently keeping himself, as if he was not angry on anyone, he did not consider himself as anybody harassed, and desires only that he should be left in peace because he was pleased.
In fact, since last year, when he left Moscow, he has ceased to be fun.
He felt that this is the independent position of a person who could all but doesn’t want anything, already begins to smooth, that many begin to think that he could nothing but how to be honest and good little.
Making so much noise and paying general attention to his relationship with Karenina, it gave him a new glow, calmed his temptation at the time of his worm, but a week ago this worm woke up with a new force.
His companion from childhood, one circle, one society and a corpus companion, Serpukhovskaya, one with him, with whom he competed both in class, and in gymnastics, and in tricks, and in the dreams of courtesy, in days returned from Central Asia, receiving there two acts and a distinction that is rarely given to such young generals.
As soon as he arrived in St. Petersburg, they talked about him as a newly rising star of first magnitude. He was a general and expected a appointment that could have an influence on the course of state affairs, and Wronsky was even independent, and brilliant, and loving a beautiful woman, but he was only a rothmist who was granted to be independent as much as he wanted.
“Naturally, I’m not jealous and I can’t jealous Serpukhovsky, but his rise shows me that it’s worth waiting, and a person like me’s career can be done very soon.
Three years ago he was in the same position as me.
When I resign, I will burn my ships.
Staying in service, I don’t lose anything.
She said she didn’t want to change her position. And I, with her love, can’t jealous Serpukhovsky.”
And, turning in the slow movement of the ear, he stood up from the table and walked through the room, his Eyes glowed brightly, and he felt that solid, quiet and joyful state of spirit that was on him always after his position was clarified.
Everything was, like the previous accounts, clear and clear.
He clothed, took a cold bath and went out.
I am behind you. Your washing lasted for a long time today,” said Petritsky. What has ended?
“It ended,” Wronsky answered, smiling with one eye and turning the ends of the wings so cautiously as if after the order to which his actions were brought, any too bold and fast movement could destroy him.
“You’re always right out of the bath,” said Petritsky. I am from Gritsky (so they called the army commander), they are waiting for you.
Wronsky, without answering, looked at his friend, thinking about another.
Is it his music? He said, listening to the sounds of tube bases, polls and vals that came to him. What is a celebration?
Serpukhovsky has arrived.
Ah Ah! “Wronsky said, I didn’t know.
The smile of his eyes glowed even brighter.
Once he decided with himself that he was happy with his love, sacrificed to her with his ambition, — taking at least on himself this role, — Vronsky could no longer feel neither jealousy to Serpukhovsky nor suspicion to him for the fact that he, coming to the regiment, came not to him first.
Serpukhovsky was a good friend, and he was happy to him.
Oh, I am very happy.
Commander Demin occupied a large housing house. The whole community was on a spacious lower balcony.
On the courtyard the first thing that was thrown into the eyes of Vronsky was the singers in the hills standing under a bottle with vodka, and a healthy fun figure of the army commander surrounded by officers; when he went out to the first stage of the balcony, he, loudly screaming the music playing the offfenbach cadry, something commanded and masched the soldiers standing on the side.
A handful of soldiers, the officer and a few underofficers came along with Vronsky to the balcony.
Back to the table, the army commander again went out with a glass on the wing and proclaimed the toast: "For the health of our former companion and courageous general Prince Serpukhovsky.
The hour!”
Following the army commander, with a bottle in the hand, smiling, went out and Serpukhovskaya.
“You are all young, Bondarenko,” he turned to the second servant who stood right in front of him.
Vronsky has not seen Serpukhovsky for three years.
He was married by releasing the baccarat, but he was as fine, not so impressed by the beauty, but by the delicacy and nobleness of the face and composition.
One change that Vronsky noticed in it was that quiet, constant lighting that is placed on the faces of people who are successful and confident in the recognition of this success by all.
Vronsky knew that brightness and immediately noticed it at Serpukhovsky.
Down from the stairs, Serpukhovsky saw Vronsky.
The smile of joy illuminated the face of Serpukhovsky.
He swallowed to the top with his head, lifted the bottle, with the wing of Vronsky and showing with this gesture that he could not before reach the washmister, who, pulling out, had already put his lips to kiss.
— Well, this is he! — screamed the commander of the army. Yashvin told me that you are in your dark spirit.
Serpukhovsky kissed in the wet and fresh lips of the young Wachmister and, washing his mouth with a plate, approached Vronsky.
How I am happy! He said, throwing his hand and pulling him to the side.
Take care of them! The commander of the army called Yashvina, indicating Vronsky, and went down to the soldiers.
Why did you not run yesterday?
I thought I would see you there,” said Vronsky, looking at Serpukhovsky.
I came, but late.
Vinoat, - he added and addressed the adjuvant, - please tell me to distribute how much it will come out on a person.
And he quickly got out of the paper three rubber papers and red.
The Wronsky! Eating or drinking? Asked by Yashvin. Let the Count eat!
This is singing.
The command of the commander lasted a long time.
I drank a lot.
They climbed and subdued Serpukhovsky.
Then came the commander.
Then, in front of the singers, the commander of the army himself flattered with Petritsky.
Then the army commander, already slightly weakened, sat on the courtyard on the lawn and began to prove Yashwin the advantage of Russia over Prussia, especially in the cavalry attack, and a minute of silence.
Serpukhovsky entered the house, the cleaning room, to wash his hands, and found there Vronsky; Vronsky was swallowed with water.
He, removing the coat, put the red neck that was broken with hair under the washer's flow, stretched it and its head with his hands.
After cleaning, Vronsky settled to Serpukhovsky. They both immediately sat on the sofa, and the conversation between them began, very interesting for both.
“I knew everything about you through my wife,” Serpukhovsky said. I'm glad you've seen her often.
“She’s friendly with Varey, and they’re the only women of St. Petersburg with whom I’m pleased to see,” Vronsky answered with a smile.
He smiled that he predicted the topic to be addressed, and it was pleasant for him.
The only? Smiling, he asked Serpukhovskaya.
“Yes, I knew about you, but not only through your wife, with a strict expression of the face prohibiting this clue,” Wronsky said. I was very happy with your success, and I was not surprised.
I expected more...
Serpukhovsky smiled.
He was obviously pleased with this opinion about him, and he did not find it necessary to hide it.
I, on the contrary, acknowledged honestly, expected less.
But I am happy, very happy. I freed, this is my weakness, and I admit in it.
“Maybe you’t admit if you didn’t succeed,” Wronsky said.
“I don’t think,” he smiled again, said Serpukhovsky. I will not say it would not be worth living without it, but it would be boring.
Of course, I may be wrong, but it seems to me that I have some abilities to the field of activity that I have chosen, and that in my hands the power, whatever it is, if it is, will be better than in the hands of many I know, — said Serpukhovsky with a bright consciousness of success. And because the closer to this, the more I am satisfied.
Maybe it’s so for you, but not for everyone.
I thought the same, but I live, and I find that it is not worth living for that alone,” Wronsky said.
This is it!
This is it! I laughed, said Serpukhovsky. I started with what I heard about you, about your rejection.
Of course I approved you.
But there is a mode for everything. And I think the best act is good, but you did it not as you should.
What has been done is done, and you know, I will never deny what I have done.
And then I am wonderful.
Beautiful for time.
But you won’t be satisfied with it. I don’t speak to your brother.
This is a lovely child, just as this is our master.
He is out! - he added, listening to the scream of "ur", - and he was fun, and you didn't satisfy it.
I don’t say to satisfy.
Yes, it is not one.
People like you are needed.
to whom?
to whom?
to society.
Russia needs people, it needs a party, otherwise everything goes and goes to dogs.
The Party of Bernabeu against the Russian Communists?
- No, - turning out of the assumption that he is suspected of such stupidity, Serpukhovsky said. Everything is a joke.
It has always been and will be.
There are no communists.
But always people intrigues need to invent a harmful, dangerous party.
This is an old thing.
No, we need the power party of independent people like you and me.
But why? - Vronsky named several people with power. Why are they not independent people?
Only because they had or had no independence from birth, there was no name, there was no proximity to the sun in which we were born.
They can be purchased either with money or with charity. And in order to keep them, they need to invent a direction.
And they lead some thought, a direction in which they do not believe themselves, which does evil; and all this direction is only a means of having a house of custody, and so much of complaint.
Cela n'est pas plus fin que ca when you look at their maps.
Maybe I’m worse than they, but I don’t see why I should be worse than they.
But I’m probably already having one important advantage, that we’re harder to buy.
Those people are needed more than ever.
Vronsky listened carefully, but not as much as the content of the words occupied him, as much as the attitude to the matter of Serpukhovsky, who already thought to fight with power and who had his sympathies and antipathies in it, while for him were in service only the interests of the squadron.
Vronsky also understood how Serpukhovsky could be strong with his undoubted ability to think, understand things, with his mind and the gift of the word, so rare in the environment in which he lived.
And no matter how aware it was to him, he was jealous.
“I still lack one major thing for this,” he replied, “there is a lack of the desire for power.
It was, but it has passed.
“I’m sorry, it’s not true,” Serpukhovsky said with a smile.
No, it is true! Now, to be honest, Vronsky added.
Yes, it’s a different thing now, but it’s not always.
“Maybe,” Wronsky replied.
“You say, maybe,” continued Serpukhovsky, as if I guessed his thoughts, “and I tell you probably.
And that’s why I wanted to see you.You did the way you should.
I know, but you don’t have to persuade.
I just ask you for a carte blanche.
I am not protecting you.
Why should I not protect you?
You have protected me so many times.
I hope our friendship is above that.
“Yes,” he said gently, like a woman, smiling to him. Give me a carte blanche, go out of the regiment, and I will draw you invisibly.
“But you understand, I don’t need anything,” Wronsky said, “just that everything should be as it was.
Serpukhovsky stood up and stood against him.
You said that everything should be as it was.
I understand what that means.
But listen, we are roves; you knew more women than I did. The smile and gestures of Serpukhovsky said that Vronsky should not be afraid, that he will gently and carefully touch the sick place. But I’m married, and believe that if you know one of your wife (as someone wrote) you love, you’ll know all the women better than if you know thousands of them.
- Now we're coming! - screamed Vronsky to the officer who looked in the room and called them to the police commander.
Vronsky wanted to hear and know what he would say to him.
Here is my opinion for you.
Women are the main stone of interference in human activity.
It’s hard to love a woman and do something.
For this, there is one means with comfort without interference in loving – it is marriage.
How would I tell you what I think, - said Serpukhovsky, who loved comparisons, - stand, stand!
Yes, how to wear a fardeau and do something with your hands can only be when a fardeau is bound on your back, and it is a marriage.
I felt that when I was married.
Suddenly I got my hands.
But without marriage to stick this fardeau - the hands will be so full that nothing can be done.
Look at Mazankova, Krupova.
They lost their career because of women.
What women! - said Vronsky, reminding the French woman and the actress, with whom two people were named in connection.
The worse the stronger the position of a woman in the light, the worse.
It’s like not to throw fardeau with your hands, but to break it out of another.
“You’ve never loved,” Wronsky said quietly, looking before him and thinking about Anna.
Maybe is.
Remember what I told you.
Women are more material than men. We make love something great, and they are always terré-a-terre.
— Now, now! — he turned to the entering lake.
But Laki didn’t come to call them again as he thought.
Lakey brought the Wron's note.
The man brought you from the princess of Tverska.
Vronsky printed the letter and exploded.
“My head is sick, I’m going home,” he said to Serpukhovsky.
Well so goodbye.
Do you get a carte blanche?
Then I will find you in St. Petersburg.
It was already the sixth hour, and because in order to sing in time and at the same time not to ride on his horses, whom everyone knew, Vronsky sat in the carrier of Yashvina and ordered to ride as soon as possible.
The old four-place car was spacious. He sat in the corner, stretched his feet to the front place and thought.
The disturbed consciousness of the clarity to which his affairs were brought, the disturbed memory of the friendship and fate of Serpukhovsky, who considered him a desirable person, and, most importantly, the expectation of a meeting, all combined in the general impression of the joyful sense of life.
The feeling was so strong that he unwillingly smiled.
He dropped his legs, placed one on the knees of the other, and, taking it in his hand, he felt the stretched ick of his leg that fell yesterday when he fell, and, turning back, he breathed several times with the whole chest.
“Good, very good!” He said to himself.
He had often experienced the joyful consciousness of his body before, but he never loved himself, his body as much as he is now.
He was pleasant to feel this light pain in the strong leg, pleasant to feel the muscle movements of his chest while breathing.
That clear and cold August day, which so hopelessly acted on Anna, seemed exciting to him and refreshed his burned face and neck.
The smell of brilliant from his ears seemed pleasant to him in this fresh air.
Everything he saw in the window of the car, all in this cold, clean air, in this bright light, the shade was as fresh, joyful and strong as he himself: and the roofs of the houses glowing in the rays of the falling sun, and the sharp drawings of the hills and angles of the buildings, and the figures of occasionally encountered pedestrians and crew, and the stable green of trees and herbs, and the fields with properly cutting potatoes, and the hair shadows falling from the houses and from the trees, and from the shadows, and from the most potatoes. Everything was beautiful, like a beautiful landscape, just finished and covered with lakes.
- Go, go! - he said to the puppy, moving to the window, and, bringing a three-ruble paper out of the pocket, throwed it to the puppy looking.
The carrier's hand felt something at the lighthouse, the sound of the knut was heard, and the car quickly dropped on the straight road.
“Nothing, nothing I need, except this happiness,” he thought, looking at the bone bottle of the call in the middle of the windows and imagining Anna as she saw her the last time. And the further, the more I love her.
Here is the garden of the castle.
Where is she here?
Where is?
How?
Why did she appoint a date here and write in the letter of Betty?" He thought only now; but thought was once.
He stopped the cushion, not coming to the alley, and when he opened the door, he jumped out of the car and went to the alley leading to the house.
There was no one in the hall; but when he looked right, he saw it.
Her face was closed with a wave, but he captured with a joyful look a special, her one-specific movement of walking, the shoulder and the position of the head, and instantly as if the electric current was running through his body. He felt himself with a new strength, from the tight movements of his feet to the movement of his lungs while breathing, and something stumbled his lips.
When she came to him, she grew his hand strongly.
Do you not be angry because I called you?
“I needed to see you,” she said, “and that serious and strict layer of lips he saw from under the wall immediately changed his mental mood.
I, to be angry!
How did you come, where?
— Anyway, — said she, putting her hand on him, — let’s go, I have to negotiate.
He realized that something happened and that the date would not be pleasant.
In her presence he had no will: without knowing the causes of her anxiety, he felt already that the same anxiety was unintentionally communicated to him.
What is? What? He asked, pressing her hand and trying to read her thoughts in her face.
She passed quietly a few steps, gathering with the spirit, and suddenly stopped.
“I didn’t tell you yesterday,” she started, quickly breathing hard, “that when I returned home with Alexey Alexandrovich, I told him everything... she said I can’t be his wife, that... and she said everything.
He listened to her, unwillingly tending to all things, as he wanted to mitigate the severity of her position for her.
But as soon as she said this, he suddenly turned out, his face took a proud and strict expression. Yes, it’s better, a thousand times better! I understand how hard it was, he said.
But she did not listen to his words, she read his thoughts on the expression of his face.
She couldn’t know that the expression of his face related to the first Vronsky thought — about the inevitability of the duel now.
She never thought of a duel, and therefore she explained this past expression of rigidity differently.
Having received the letter from her husband, she knew in the depths of the soul that everything would remain old, that she would not be able to ignore her position, leave her son and join her lover.
The morning spent with the princess of Tverska, even more affirmed her in this.
But that date was extremely important to her.
She hoped that this date would change their position and save her.
If he informs the news resolutely, passionately, without a minute of hesitation, he will say to her, "Take it all and run with me!" She leaves her son and goes with him.
But this news did not make in him what she expected: he was just something as if he was offended.
It wasn’t hard for me. It was done by itself, — she said irritably, — and here... — she got her husband’s letter from the gloves.
- I understand, I understand, - he broke it, taking the letter, but not reading it and trying to calm it, - I wished one, I asked one - to break this position to dedicate my life to your happiness.
Why do you tell me this? She said. Can I doubt that?
If I doubted...
Who is it going? - said suddenly Vronsky, indicating the sixth encounter of two women. - Maybe, they know us, - and he quickly turned, pulling her behind, on the side path.
“I don’t care!” she said.
Her lips shaken. And it seemed to him that her eyes with a strange evil looked at him from under the wall. So I say that not in this matter, I can’t doubt it; but that’s what he writes to me.
to read. She stopped again.
Again, as in the first minute, with the news of her break with her husband, Vronsky, reading the letter, unintentionally gave himself to that natural impression that caused in him the attitude to the offended husband.
Now that he kept his letter in his hands, he accidentally imagined the challenge that he probably will find today or tomorrow, and the same duel during which he with the same cold and proud expression that he was still on his face, shooting into the air, will stand under the shooting of the offended husband.
And right in his head was the thought that he just talked to Serpukhovsky and that he himself thought in the morning—that it was better not to bind himself—and he knew that this thought he could not transmit to her.
After reading the letter, he raised his eyes on her, and in his sight there was no firmness.
She immediately realized that he had already thought about it with himself before. She knew that whatever he said to her, he would not say everything he thought.
And she realized that her last hope was deceived. It was not what she was expecting.
“You see what it is for a man,” she said with a loud voice, “he...
“Forgive me, but I’m glad of it,” Wronsky beat. “For the sake of God, let me agree,” he added, asking her to give him time to explain his words. I’m glad because it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t, it can’t.
Why can’t it? - keeping tears, Anna spoke, obviously no longer attributing any meaning to what he will say.
She felt that her fate was decided.
Wronsky wanted to say that after the inevitable, in his opinion, the duel could not continue, but said another.
cannot continue.
I hope you will leave him now.
I hope - he was confused and reddened, that you will allow me to arrange and think about our life tomorrow... - he started.
She did not give him a deal.
And the son? She screamed. Do you see what he writes? I have to leave it, and I can and don’t want to do it.
For the sake of God, what is better?
Leave a son or continue this humiliating situation?
For whom is the humiliating situation?
For everyone and most for you.
You say humiliating, don’t say that. “These words have no meaning for me,” she said with a sharp voice.
She didn’t want him to say the truth now.
She remained his only love, and she wanted to love him. You understand that for me, since the day she loved you, everything has changed.
For me, one thing is your love.
If it is mine, then I feel so high, so firm that nothing can be humiliating to me.
I’m proud of my position because... I’m proud of it... I’m proud of it... She didn’t agree what he was proud of.
The tears of shame and disappointment drowned her voice Om stopped and swallowed.
He also felt that something climbed to his throat, scratched in his nose, and for the first time in his life he felt ready to cry.
He could not say that it was exactly how it touched him; he was sad about her, he felt that he could not help her, and at the same time he knew that he was guilty of her misfortune, that he did something bad.
Is divorce impossible? He said weakly.
She, without answering, climbed her head. Can we not take a son and still leave him?
Yes, but it all depends on him.
Now I have to go to him, she said dry.
Her feeling that everything will remain old, did not deceive her.
“I’m going to St. Petersburg on Tuesday and everything will be resolved.
“Yes,” she said. But let’s not talk about it anymore.
The caret of Anna, which she sent and ordered to come to the castle of Vrede Garden, came.
Anna said goodbye to him and went home.
The ordinary meeting of the committee was held on Monday, June 2.
Alexey Aleksandrovich entered the meeting hall, greeted the members and the chairman, as usual, and sat on his place, put his hand on the paper prepared before him.
Among these papers were unnecessary evidence to him and the embedded conspect of the statement he intended to make.
He did not need any certificates.
He remembered everything and did not think it was necessary to repeat in his memory what he would say.
He knew that when the time came, and when he saw the face of the enemy, foolishly trying to give himself an indifferent expression, his speech would go out by itself better than he could now prepare.
He felt that the content of his speech was so great that every word would have meaning.
Meanwhile, with the usual report, he had the most innocent, harmless appearance.
No one thought, when he looked at his white hands with tightened wings, so gently lengthy fingers featuring the two edges of the white paper lies in front of him, and his head with the expression of fatigue on the side, that now from his mouth will flow such words that will produce a terrible storm, will force the members to cry, breaking one another, and the chairman to demand the observance of order.
When the report ended, Alexey Aleksandrovich announced with his silent thin voice that he had to report some of his considerations on the case about the arrangement of foreigners. Attention turned to him.
Aleksei Aleksandrovich disappointed and, not looking at his enemy, but choosing, as he always did when speaking, the first face sitting before him - a little smarter old woman, who had never had any opinion in the commission, began to expose his considerations.
When it came to the original and organic law, the enemy jumped up and began to object.
Stremov, also a member of the commission and also dedicated to the living, began to justify, — and in general there was a stormy meeting; but Alexey Alexandrovich was enthusiastic, and his proposal was accepted; three new committees were appointed, and on the other day in the famous St. Petersburg circle there was only a speech that was about this meeting.
Alexey Alexandrovich’s success was even greater than he expected.
On the other morning, on Tuesday, Alexey Alexandrovich, awake, with pleasure remembered yesterday’s victory and could not smile, although he wanted to look indifferent when the governor of the chancellor, wishing to help him, the hearing that came to him, about what happened in the commission.
Dealing with the governor of the cabinet, Alexey Alexandrovich completely forgot that today was Tuesday, the day he appointed for the arrival of Anna Arkadievna, and was surprised and unpleasantly surprised when the man came to report him about her arrival.
Anna arrived in St. Petersburg early in the morning; a car was sent to her by her telegram, and therefore Alexey Alexandrovich could know about her arrival.
But when she came, he didn’t see her.
She was told that he has not yet gone out and is working with the chief of office.
She told her husband she came, went to her office and worked out her things, waiting for him to come to her.
But an hour passed, he didn’t come.
She went out to the dining room under orders and intentionally spoke loudly, waiting for him to come here; but he didn’t go out, although she heard that he went out to the doors of the cabinet, provoking the governor of the cabinet.
She knew that he, as usual, would soon go to the service, and she wanted to see him before that, so that their relationship would be determined.
She went through the hall and turned to him with determination.
When she entered his office, he was in a wickmunder, obviously ready to leave, sitting at a small table on which he wrapped his hands, and suddenly looked in front of himself.
She saw him before he had her, and she realized that he thought about her.
When he saw her, he wanted to stand up, thought, then his face exploded, which Anna had never seen before, and he quickly stood up and went to her, looking not in her eyes, but above, on her forehead and hair.
He approached her, took her hand and asked her to sit.
“I’m very happy that you’ve come,” he said, sitting under her, and, obviously, wanting to say something, he stopped.
He wanted to talk a few times, but he stopped.
Despite the fact that, preparing for this date, she taught herself to neglect and blame him, she didn’t know what to say to him, and she was sorry for him.
The silence lasted a long time. The network is healthy? He said, and without waiting for the answer, he added, I will not eat at home today, and now I have to go.
“I wanted to go to Moscow,” she said.
“No, you’ve done very much, very well that you’ve come,” he said and again.
Seeing that he was unable to start speaking, she started herself.
“Alexey Aleksandrovich,” she said, looking at him and not leaving her eyes under his haircut look, “I’m a criminal woman, I’m a bad woman, but I’m the same as I was that I told you then, and came to tell you that I can’t change anything.
“I didn’t ask you about it,” he said, suddenly resolutely and with hatred looking directly into her eyes, “I guessed that. Under the influence of anger, he apparently mastered all his abilities again. But as I told you then and wrote, he spoke with a sharp, thin voice, now I repeat that I do not have to know it.
I ignore that. Not all wives are as good as you, so hurry to communicate such a pleasant news to your husband. He especially hit the word “ pleasant.” I will ignore it until the light knows it, until my name is shameful.
And that is why I only warn you that our relationships should be the same as they have always been, and that only if you compromise yourself, I will have to take measures to protect your honor.
“But our relationships can’t be as usual,” Anna spoke with a slave voice, scared to look at him.
When she saw these quiet gestures again, she heard that penetrating, childish and laughing voice, the hatred to him destroyed her former sorrow, and she was only afraid, but in whatever way she wanted to understand her position.
I can’t be your wife when I started.
He laughed with evil and cold laughter.
The kind of life you have chosen has influenced your concepts.
I respect or deny both... I respect your past and deny the present... that I was far from the interpretation you gave to my words.
Anna breathed and lowered her head.
“But I don’t understand how, having so much independence as you, — continued he, burning up, — declaring to your husband directly about your unbelief and not finding in it anything prejudicable, you seem to find prejudicable execution in relation to the husband of the wife’s duties?
Alexey Alexandrovich! What do you need from me?
I need that I don’t meet this man here and that you behave so that neither the light nor the servant can blame you... so that you don’t see him.
It seems not much.
And for this you will enjoy the rights of an honest wife without fulfilling her duties.
This is all I have to tell you.
Now I have time to drive.
I don’t eat at home.
He stood up and turned to the door.
Anna also stood up He, silently worshipped, missed her.
The night that Levin spent on the ground was not a gift for him; the farming that he managed repented him and lost all interest for him. Despite the excellent harvest, he never had or at least never seemed to have so many failures and so many hostile relationships between him and the men as this year, and the cause of failures and this hostility was now fully understood to him.
The beauty he experienced in his own work, the proximity to the men, the jealousy he experienced to them, to their lives, the desire to move into this life, which this night was for him no longer a sword, but an intention, the details of the performance he was considering, all this so changed his view of the economy he had introduced, that he could no longer find in it any previous interest, and could not miss that unpleasant attitude to the workers, which was the foundation of the whole matter. The sheep of improved cows, the same as the Pava, the whole fertilized, smelled land, nine flat fields, saturated with lotions, nine hundred dozen deeply smelled cows, regular seals, etc. All this was great if it was done only by themselves or by their companions, people who are sympathic to him.
But he clearly saw now (his work on the book about agriculture, in which the main element of the economy was to be the worker, greatly helped him in this), -- he clearly saw now that the economy he managed was only a cruel and persistent struggle between him and the workers, in which on the one hand, on the other hand, there was a constant intense desire to transform everything into the best model, and on the other hand, the natural order of things. And in this struggle he saw that, with the greatest tension of the forces from his side and without any effort and even intention from the other, it was only achieved that the farming went into no one and the wonderful instruments, the beautiful sheep and the land were completely wasted.
The main thing was not only that the energy aimed at this matter was completely missing, but he could not fail to feel now, when the meaning of his economy became naked for him, that the purpose of his energy was the most unworthy. In fact, what was the struggle?
He stood for each of his money (and he couldn't not stand because he was worth weakening his energy, and he would not have the money to pay with the workers), and they only stood for working quietly and pleasantly, that is, as they used to. In his interest it was that every worker worked as much as possible, and that he did not forget, that he did not try to break the veil, the horse grapes, the mole, so that he thought about what he did; the worker wanted to work as pleasant as possible, with rest, and, most importantly, without care and forgotten, without thinking.
This summer, at every step, Levin saw it. He sent to throw the clerk on the seed, and picked out the wicked decades that were grew up with the grass and the field, and the wicked on the seed; the best decades of the seed were throwed to him in a row, justified by the commandment of the commander, and comforted him by the fact that the seed would be excellent; but he knew that this was because the decades were easier to throw.
He sent the seafood to throw the seafood, and it was broken in the first rows, because it was boring for the man to sit on the cows under the wings that stumble over him. And they said to him, "Don't be worried, the grandmothers will be shaken."
The plugs were disgraceful, because the worker did not come to throw down the lifted cut in his head, and with force he tortured the horses and destroyed the land; and they asked him to die. The horses were thrown into the wheat because none of the workers wanted to be a night guard, and despite the order not to do so, the workers wandered to waste the night, and Vanka, working the whole day, slept and repented in his sin, saying, “Your will.”
Three of the best bodies were crushed, because they were thrown out on the clay without water, and they did not want to believe that they were divided by clay, but they told in comfort how the neighbor had a hundred twelve heads falling in three days.
All this was done not because someone wanted evil to Levin or his ownership; on the contrary, he knew that he was loved, considered a simple barin (that is the highest praise); but it was done only because he wanted to work fun and carelessly, and his interests were not only strange and incomprehensible to them, but fatally opposed to their most just interests.
For a long time, Levin was dissatisfied with his attitude towards the economy. He saw the boat flowing him, but he didn’t find and didn’t look for the flow, he might be deliberately cheating himself.
But he couldn’t cheat himself anymore. The economy he managed became not only uninteresting to him, but disgusting, and he could not deal with them anymore.
This was also accompanied by the presence in thirty verses from him by Kitty Scherbatskaya, which he wanted and could not see.
Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya, when he was with her, called him to come: to come to renew the offer of her sister, who, as she gave it to feel, will now accept it.
Levin himself, seeing Kitty Scherbatskaya, realized that he didn’t stop loving her; but he couldn’t go to Oblonsky, knowing that she was there.
The fact that he made a proposal to her and she rejected him placed an unbeatable barrier between them and her.
“I can’t ask her to be my wife because she can’t be the wife of the one she wanted,” he said to himself.
The thought of this made him cold and hostile to her.
"I will not be able to talk to her without a sense of guilt, look at her without evil, and she will only hate me even more as it should be.
And then, how can I now, after what Darya Alexandrovna told me, go to them?
Can I not show that I know what she told me?
And I will come with generosity – to forgive, to forgive her.
I am before her in the role of a forgiver and honouring her for my love.
Why did Daria Alexandrovna tell me this?
I could accidentally see her, and then everything would be done by myself, but now it is impossible, it is impossible!”
Darya Alexandrovna sent him a note, asking him for a female seat for Kitty.
“I was told you had a seat,” she wrote to him. I hope you’ll bring it yourself.”
He could not bear it anymore.
How smart, delicate woman could so humiliate her sister!
He wrote ten notes and broke all and sent a seat without any answer.
To write that he will come is not possible because he can’t come; to write that he can’t come because he can’t or leaves is even worse.
He sent the seat without a reply and with the consciousness that he did something shameful, on the other day, passing all the afflicted business to the narrative, went to a remote train to his friend Swiazhsky, near whom were the beautiful dupe plots and who recently wrote to him, asking to fulfill the oldest intention to visit him.
The bullets in the Surovsk district have long tempted Levin, but he has all postponed this trip for economic affairs.
Now he was pleased to leave the neighborhood of Scherbatsky and, most importantly, the farm, for the hunt, which in all the fears served him as the best comfort.
There was neither a rail nor a postal road to Surovsky, and Levin was on his own in the tarantass.
In the middle of the road, he stopped feeding a wealthy man.
A crazy fresh old man, with a wide red beard, sitting at the shark, opened the door, pressing to the faith to miss the trio.
Giving the dog a place under a curtain on a large, clean and decorated new garden with burned seals, the old man asked Levin to go to the mountain.
A cleverly dressed young woman, in clothes on the boss's foot, swallowed, tightened the floor in new shades.
She was afraid of the dog who fled for the Lewin and screamed, but immediately laughed to her fear, realizing that the dog didn’t touch.
When she showed Levine with a hand stuck on the door to the mountain, she hid, again swallowed, her beautiful face and continued to wash.
The selfie, what is it? She asked.
Yes please.
The mountain was large, with a Dutch oven and a hill.
Under the images stood a painted table, a shop and two chairs.
At the entrance there was a closet with a dish.
The clothes were closed, the mice was little, and so clean that Levin took care that Laska, running the road and swimming in the slopes, did not swim the floor, and indicated her a place in the corner of the door.
Looking at the mountain, Levin went out to the rear yard.
A good-looking young woman in the cushions, climbing with empty wheels on the cushion, fled before him for the water to the cushion.
The old man graciously screamed on her and came to Levin. What do you eat to Nikolai Ivanovich Swiazhsky?
Then they come to us, and he began with a speech, clocking on the pencil of the wing.
In the middle of the story of the old man about his acquaintance with Swiazhsky gate again was hidden, and workers from the field with sausages and beans entered the courtyard.
The horses stuck in sauces and bears were saturated and large.
Workers, obviously, were family: two were young, in silk shorts and cartoons, the other two were rented, in silk shorts, one old, the other young. After leaving the wing, the old man approached the horses and began to spread.
What is the smell? He asked Levin.
The cards suffered.
We also hold the earth.
You, Fedot, don’t let a merina, but put it to the coal, another to the coal.
What, Daddy, I ordered to take, what did you bring? - asked with great growth, a healthy little, obviously the son of the old man.
- In the sand, - replied the old man, throwing the burns round and throwing them on the ground. Generations are eating lunch.
A good-looking young woman with full, pulling her shoulders with wheels passed through the seed.
There appeared somewhere more grandmothers — young beautiful, middle and old unpleasant, with children and without children.
The self-career was drowned in the tube; the workers and the family, taking away with the horses, went to dinner.
Levin, bringing his provision out of the wheel, invited the old man to drink tea with him.
“Yes, it’s already drunk today,” said the old man, obviously receiving this offer with pleasure. Something for the company.
After the tea, Levin learned the entire history of the old farm.
The old man scored a hundred twenty-two ten years ago from the house, and last year he bought them and scored another three hundred from the neighboring house.
The small part of the land, the worst, he distributed in the land, and thirty-four in the field he fell himself with his family and two wage workers.
The old man complained that it was bad.
But Levin realized that he complained only for mercy, and that his farming prospered.
If it were bad, he would not buy a hundred and five rubles of land, he would not marry three sons and grandson, he would not build twice after the fires, and everything would be better and better.
Despite the old man’s complaints, it was clear that he was fairly proud of his well-being, proud of his sons, uncle, brides, horses, cows and especially of holding all this farming.
From the conversation with the old man, Levin learned that he was and was not away from the innovations.
He grew a lot of potatoes, and his potatoes, which Levin saw, when he came, had already flowered and been bound, while Levin had only flowered.
He swallowed under the potato with a plug, as he called the plug taken from the locker.
He planted wheat.
A little detail about the fact that, missing the roast, the old man feeding the horses with the propelled roast, especially hit Levina.
How many times Levin, seeing this disappearing wonderful food, wanted to gather it; but it was always impossible.
The man did that, and he couldn’t take that food.
What do babies do?
They will take the puppets on the road, and the telga will come.
“But we, the warehouses, are all wrong with the workers,” said Levin, giving him a glass of tea.
“Thank you,” the old man answered, taking a glass, but gave up the sugar, indicating the remaining cabbage. Where do you deal with the workers? He said. Smooth one.
That’s a swallow.
We know what land, mac, and also not painfully praise the harvest.
All of ignorance!
Do you deal with the workers?
Our business is male.
We are all alone.
We run out, and we run out.
“My grandmother, Finogen told me to get it,” said the grandmother in the clothes.
The old man said, standing up, crossed for a long time, thanked Levin and went out.
When Levin went into the black hole to call his puppy, he saw the whole family of men behind the table.
The grandmother served standing.
A young healthy son, with a full mouth of cushion, was telling something funny, and everybody was hungry, and especially the grandmother was fun in the cushions, swallowing a shell into a cup.
It is very likely that the gentle face of the grandmother in the clothes contributed greatly to the impression of the well-being that this peasant house made on Levin, but the impression was so strong that Levin could not separate from it at all.
And all the way from the old man to Swiazhsky was not and again remembered this economy, as if something in this impression demanded his special attention.
Swiazhsky was the leader in his departure.
He was five years older than Levin and long married.
In his house lived a young son, a very sympathetic Levi girl.
Levin knew that Swiazhsky and his wife were very desirable to give this girl for him.
He knew it undoubtedly, how it is always known by young people, so-called brides, although no one would ever decide to tell this, and he also knew that, despite the fact that he wanted to marry, despite the fact that according to all the data this very attractive girl had to be a beautiful wife, he could not even marry her, even if he was not in love with Kitty Scherbatskaya, as to fly to heaven.
And this knowledge poisoned him the pleasure he hoped to have from his trip to Swiazhsky.
Having received Sviazhsky's letter with an invitation to hunt, Levin immediately thought about it, but, despite this, decided that such species on him Sviazhsky is only his unfounded assumption, and therefore he will still go.
In addition, in the depth of his soul, he wanted to experience himself, to look at this girl again.
The domestic life of Swiazhsky was very pleasant, and Swiazhsky himself, the best type of earth figure, which only Levin knew, was always extremely interesting for Levin.
Swiazhsky was one of those people, always surprising for Levin, whose reasoning, very consistent, although never independent, goes by itself, and life, extremely determined and firm in its direction, goes by itself, completely independent and almost always contrary to reasoning.
Swiazhsky was an extremely liberal man.
He denied nobleship and considered the majority of nobles secret, from the slaves only not expressed themselves, fortress.
He considered Russia a dead country, like Turkey, and the government of Russia so bad that he never allowed himself to even seriously criticize the actions of the government, and at the same time he served and was an exemplary noble leader, and on the way he always wore with a cockard and a red coat.
He believed that human life is possible only abroad, where he went to live at the first opportunity, and at the same time conducted a very complex and improved economy in Russia and with extraordinary interest observed everything and knew everything that was done in Russia.
He considered the Russian man standing in development at the transitional stage from the monkey to the man, and at the same time on the earth's elections he was more willing to push the hand to the men and listen to their opinions.
He did not believe in the Church or in the death, but was very concerned with the question of improving the life of the priesthood and reducing the parishes, and was concerned that the church would remain in his village.
In the women's matter, he was on the side of the extreme supporters of women's full freedom and in particular their right to work, but he lived with his wife in such a way that everyone loved their friendly childless family life, and arranged his wife's life in such a way that she couldn't do anything and could not do anything but shared with her husband's care, as better and more fun to spend the time.
If Levin did not have the ability to explain to himself people from the best side, the character of Swiazhsky would not represent any difficulty or question for him; he would say to himself: stupid or stupid, and everything would be clear.
But he could not say a fool, because Swiazhsky was undoubtedly not only a very intelligent, but a very educated and unusually simply carrying his education man.
There was no subject he did not know; but he showed his knowledge only when we were forced to do so.
Even less, Levin could say that he was wicked, because Swiazhsky was undoubtedly an honest, good, intelligent man, who was joyful, lively, constantly doing a thing highly appreciated by all his surroundings, and probably never consciously did and could do nothing bad.
Levin tried to understand and not to understand and always, as a living mystery, looked at him and his life.
They were friendly with Levin, and therefore Levin allowed himself to question Swiazhsky, to get to the very foundation of his view of life; but it was always foolish.
Every time Levin tried to penetrate the open to all doors reception rooms of Swiazhsky's mind, he noticed that Swiazhsky was slightly disturbed; a slightly noticeable fear was expressed in his sight, as if he was afraid that Levin would understand him, and he gave a kind and joyful resistance.
Now, after his disappointment in the farm, Levin was pleased to visit Swiazhsky.
Not to mention that he was pleased with the appearance of these happy, satisfied with himself and all the bubbles, their well-established nest, he wanted now, feeling so dissatisfied with his life, to reach the secret that gave him such clarity, certainty and joy in life.
In addition, Levin knew that he would see Swiazhsky's neighbors, and he was now interested in talking, listening to the same talks about the harvest, the hiring of workers, etc., which, Levin knew, used to be considered something very low, but which now seemed important to Levin.
“It may not matter in the fortress law or it may not matter in England.
In both cases, the same conditions are determined; but we now, when all of this has turned and is only placed, the question of how these conditions will be placed, is only one important question in Russia,” Levin thought.
The hunting was worse than Levin expected.
The pain was dry and there was no hole at all.
He spent the whole day and brought only three things, but he brought, as always from hunting, excellent appetite, excellent mood and that exciting mental state that was always accompanied by a strong physical movement.
And in the hunt, in the time when he seemed not thinking about anything, no-no, and again he remembered the old man with his family, and this impression as if it demanded to himself not only attention, but also the solution of something related to him.
In the evening, after the tea, in the presence of two custodians who came for some custody affairs, the most interesting conversation caused as Levin expected.
Levin was sitting at the housewife at the tea table and had to talk to her and to the girl who was sitting against him.
The owner was a round, white and low woman, all glowing with shells and smiles.
Levin tried through her to find a solution to the mystery that her husband had for him; but he did not have full freedom of thought, because he was sadly uncomfortable.
He was sadly unpleasant because he was sitting against him in a special, for him, he seemed, wearing a dress, with a special in the form of a trapeze cut on the white chest; this four-angle cut, despite the fact that the chest was very white, or especially because it was very white, deprived Levine of the freedom of thought.
He probably mistakenly imagined that this cut was made on his account, and he considered himself not entitled to look at it and tried not to look at it; but he felt that he was guilty of just one thing that the cut was made.
Levin seemed that he was cheating someone, that he should explain something, but that it is not possible to explain it at all, and that's why he was constantly reddened, worried and troubled.
The discomfort was by a good man. But the owner seemed not to notice this and intentionally attracted her into the conversation.
- You say, - continued the master began the conversation, - that the husband cannot be interested in all the Russian.
On the contrary, it’s fun to be abroad, but never as here.
He feels in his sphere.
He has so many things, and he has a gift to interest everyone.
Are you not in our school?
I saw...
Is this a house covered?
“Yes, it’s really a matter,” she said, indicating her sister.
Do you teach yourself? He asked Levin, trying to look through the cut, but feeling that wherever he looked to the other side, he would see the cut.
Yes, I’ve taught and taught myself, but we have a great teacher.
We introduced gymnastics.
“No, I’m grateful, I don’t want more tea,” said Levin and, feeling he’s doing dishonest, but not more able to continue this conversation, red, stood up. “I hear a very interesting conversation,” he added and approached the other end of the table, where the owner was sitting with two houses.
Swiazhsky sat on the side of the table, covered with a hand turning the cup, leaving the other as a smell.
With his bright black eyes, he looked straight to the hot shelter with sitting ears and apparently found fun in his speeches.
The officer complained to the people.
Levin was clear that Sviazhsky knows such a response to the complaints of the locker, who will immediately destroy the whole meaning of his speech, but that according to his position he can’t say this answer and hears not without pleasure the comic speech of the locker.
The room with seated ears was obviously a rooted fortress and a village old man, a passionate village owner.
These signs Levin saw both in the clothes—a old-fashioned, lost surtuck, apparently unusual, and in his intelligent, dark eyes, and in the complex Russian speech, and in the skilled, apparently, long-experienced orderly tone, and in the decisive movements of large, beautiful, burned hands with one old wedding ring on the nonsense.
“Only if it wasn’t unfortunate to give up what’s done... there’s a lot of work... I’d put on all the hands, I’d sell, I’d go like Nikolai Ivanić... I’d listen to Elena,” he said with a pleasant smile in the lighting of his smart old face.
“Yes, you don’t throw away,” said Nikolai Ivanovich Sviazhsky, “it has become, the calculations are.
- Calculate one that you live at home, unacquired, unacquired.
We all hope that people will be formed.
And then, do you believe, it is drunkeness, discouragement!
They all divided, neither horses nor cowboys.
He will be hungry, and take him to the workers, and hire him to the world’s judge.
“But you will also complain to the world judge,” Swiazhsky said.
Do I complain?
For nothing in the world!
Talks will go so that they are not pleased with complaints!
Here at the factory – they took taxes, they left.
What is a world judge?
It is justified, but it is held by the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court.
This reminds him of the ancient.
And don’t be that – throw it all away! Run to the end of the world!
Obviously, the locker irritated Swiazhsky, but Swiazhsky not only did not be angry, but apparently had fun with it.
“Behold, we are doing our business without these measures,” he said with a smile, “I, Levin, they.” He indicated another locker.
- Yes, Michael Petrovich is going, and ask how?
Is this a rational economy? - said the locker, obviously pronounced by the word "rational."
“I have a simple business,” said Mikhail Petrovich. Thanks to God.
My business is all so that the money for autumn taxes is ready.
My dad, my dad, my dad, my dad, my dad!
Well, all of your neighbors, sorry. Well, you’ll give the first third, you’ll only say, remember, guys, I’ve helped you, and you’ll help when it’s necessary – if the seed of the grain, the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed.
And there are those who are unconscious, that’s true.
Levin, knowing these patriarchal receipts for a long time, looked over with Sviazhsky and beat Mikhail Petrovich, turning back to the host with seven ears.
So what do you think? He asked, “How do we do the business now?”
"Yes the same thing to do as Mikhail Petrovich: either give up, or give up to men; it is possible, but only by this the general wealth of the state is destroyed.
Where the earth for me, with fortress work and good farming, brought nine and nine of them, it will bring nine and nine of them.
The emancipation destroyed Russia.
Swiazhsky looked at Levin with a smiling eye and even made him a slightly noticeable laughing sign; but Levin did not find the spectator's words funny; he understood them more than he understood Swiazhsky.
Much of what the messenger said to prove why Russia was lost by emancipation seemed to him even very faithful, new and irrevocable to him.
The messenger obviously spoke his own thought, which is so rare, and the thought to which he was brought was not the desire to occupy something empty mind, but the thought that emerged from the conditions of his life, which he sat out in his village isolation and thought from all sides.
“The thing, let’s see, is that every progress is made only by power,” he said, clearly wanting to show that he is not a stranger to education. - Take the reforms of Peter, Catherine, Alexander.
Take the European history.
Moreover, progress in agriculture.
Even the potato - and that was put into force with us.
Soothie doesn’t always smell.
They’ve also entered it,, on the part, but they’ve probably entered it with force.
Now, in our time, we, the houses, under the law of the fortress, govern our land with improvements; and the dryers, and the wheels, and the wheels, and all the instruments, we all put in our power, and the men first resisted, and then imitated us.
Now, with the destruction of the fortress law, we have taken power, and our economy, where it is raised to a high level, must go down to the very wild, primitive state.
So I understand...
– So why not?
If it is rational, then you can hire it," Sviazhsky said.
The authorities do not.
To whom will I lead him? Let me ask.
“This is the labour force, the main element of the economy,” Levin thought.
The workers.
Workers don’t want to work well and work with good tools.
Our worker knows only one thing: to be drunk like a pig, drunk, and to destroy everything you give him.
The horses swallow, I gather a good cover, the wheel swallowed, it swallowed, the slurry leaves to break it.
He’s angry to see everything that’s not for him.
This has led to the decline of the economy.
The land was abandoned, grown in the fields or divided to men, and where they produced a million, they produced hundreds of thousands of quarters; the total wealth decreased.
If they did the same, yes with the calculation.
And he began to develop his plan of liberation, which would eliminate these inconveniences.
Levin was not interested in this, but when he ended, Levin returned to his first position and said, addressing Swiazhsky and trying to invite him to express his serious opinion:
“The fact that the level of economy is down and that in our relations with the workers there is no possibility of conducting profitable rational economy is quite fair,” he said.
“I don’t find, I just see that we don’t know how to conduct the economy and that, on the contrary, the economy that we conduct under the fortress law is not too high, but too low.
We don’t have any machines, no good working livestock, no real management, we don’t know how to count.
Ask the owner, he doesn’t know what’s beneficial to him or what’s not beneficial to him.
- The Italian accounting company, - said the locker ironically. No matter how you get, there will be no bars.
Why are they transferred?
The dirty silk, the Russian silk yours, is broken, and my steam is not broken.
The Russian Horse, what about it? The Tuscany races, which for the tail to throw, will destroy you, and bring the pearls or even the bityugs, they will not destroy.
And so all. We need to raise the economy.
What would it be, Nikolai Ivanić!
You’re well, and I’m a son in the university content, children in high school educate, so I don’t buy pearls.
And that is the banks.
To sell the last from the milk?
No, I thank you!
“I do not agree that it is necessary and possible to raise the level of economy even higher,” Levin said. I’m doing this, and I have the funds, and I couldn’t do anything.
Banks don’t know to whom they are useful.
I at least spent money on anything in the farming, all with loss: the pet is a loss, the car is a loss.
- That's true, - laughing even for pleasure, confirmed the locker with seven ears.
“And I am not alone,” continued Levin, “I agree with all the masters who do the rational thing; all, with rare exceptions, do the thing to the loss.
Would you say that your economy is profitable? - said Levin, and immediately in the sight of Sviazhsky Levin noticed that passing expression of fear he noticed when he wanted to penetrate further the reception rooms of Sviazhsky's mind.
In addition, this question from the side of Levin was not quite well-conscious.
The tea owner just told him that they today in the summer invited from Moscow a German, a accountant who for five hundred rubles of remuneration studied their economy and found that it caused a loss of three thousand rubles.
She didn’t remember exactly how much, but it seems that the German counted up to a quarter of the cup.
The officer, when he mentioned the benefits of the Swiazhsky economy, smiled, obviously, knowing what the barish could be with the neighbor and the leader.
“Maybe it’s not beneficial,” Swiazhsky replied. This only proves, either, that I am a bad owner, or that I spend my capital on the rental increase.
Oh the rental! Levin shouted with horror. “Maybe there is a rent in Europe, where the land has become better than the labour placed on it, but in us the whole land becomes worse than the labour placed, that is, it will fall out, it has become, there is no rent.
Why no rent?
This is the law.
We are outside the law: the rent will not explain anything to us, but, on the contrary, confuses.
No, you’ll tell me how rental learning can be...
Do you want simple?
Masha, we came here with simple cows or malines, and he turned to his wife. Little little little little little little little little little little little little.
And in the most pleasant position of the spirit, Swiazhsky stood and left, apparently assuming that the conversation ended in the same place where Levin seemed he was just starting.
Having lost the interlocutor, Levin continued the conversation with the locker, trying to prove to him that all the difficulties arise from the fact that we don’t want to know the properties, the habits of our worker; but the locker was, like all the people, self-minded and isolated, tending to understanding the thought of others and addicted to his own.
He insisted on the fact that the Russian man is a pig and loves the pig, and to bring him out of the pig, it needs power, and it doesn’t, it needs a palm, and we became so liberal that we suddenly replaced the thousand-year palm with some lawyers and conclusions, in which bad smellful men feed good soup and count the cubic feet of air.
“Why do you think,” said Levin, trying to get back to the question, “that you can’t find such a relationship with the labour force in which work would be productive?
This will never happen to the Russian people.
There is no authority, the officer replied.
How can new conditions be found? - said Swiazhsky, singing simply, smoking papyrus and coming back to the controversial. “All possible relationships with the labour force are defined and studied,” he said. The rest of barbarism - the primitive community with a circular command itself is broken down, the fortress right is destroyed, only free labour remains, and its forms are defined and ready, and they must be taken.
The battery, the elevator, the farmer – and you won’t get out of it.
But Europe is unhappy with these forms.
He is unhappy and is looking for new ones.
He will probably find.
“I’m just talking about it,” Levin replied. Why don’t we look for ourselves?
- Because it's still the same as reinventing receipts for the construction of railways.
They are ready, invented.
But if they don’t come to us, if they’re stupid? He said Levin.
And again he noticed the expression of fear in the eyes of Swiazhsky.
“Yes, that’s: we throw the hat, we found what Europe is looking for!
All of this I know, but, apologize to me, do you know everything that is done in Europe with regard to the equipment of workers?
No, it is bad.
This question is now concerned by the best minds in Europe.
Shulce-Delichevsky direction...
Then all this enormous literature of the labour issue, of the most liberal Lassale direction...
The Milgausen device is a fact, you really know.
I have an idea, but very confusing.
No, you just say; you know all this is not worse than me.
I am, of course, not a social professor, but I was interested in it, and, right, if you are interested, you will take care of it.
But what did they come to?
The guilt...
The hosts stood up, and Swiazhsky, once again stopped Levin in his unpleasant habit to look at what behind the reception rooms of his mind, went to drive his guests.
Levin was unbearably bored this evening with the ladies: he, as never before, was worried about the thought that the dissatisfaction with the economy that he now experienced is not his exclusive situation, but the general condition in which it is the case in Russia, that the arrangement of any such relationship of the workers, wherever they would work, like a man on the middle of the road, is not a dream, but a task that must be solved.
And he seemed that this task could be solved and should be tried to do it.
After apologizing to the ladies and promising to stay tomorrow another whole day in order to go to the top together to explore an interesting failure in the treasure forest, Levin before sleep went to the owner's office to take the books on the work issue that Swiazhsky proposed to him.
The Cabinet of Swiazhsky was a huge room, covered with closets with books and two tables - one massive written, standing in the middle of the room, and another round, placed, star around the lamp, in different languages with the latest numbers of newspapers and magazines.
The writing table had a stand with divided golden labels with boxes of different kinds of things.
Swiazhsky got the books and sat on a climbing chair.
What is that you look at? He told Levine, who, standing at a round table, looked at the magazines.
“Oh yeah, this is a very interesting article,” Sviazhsky said about the magazine that Levin kept in his hands. - It turns out, - he added with joy, - that the main guilty of the division of Poland was not Friedrich at all.
It appears...
And he with his own clarity briefly explained these new, very important and interesting discoveries.
Despite the fact that Levina was now most concerned with the economy, he, listening to the owner, asked himself, “What is there in it?
And why, why is he interested in the division of Poland?"
When Swiazhsky ended, Levin undoubtedly asked, “Well, what?” But there was nothing.
It was only interesting what was “proved”.
But Swiazhsky did not explain and found it necessary to explain why it was interesting to him.
“Yes, but I was very interested in the angry keeper,” said Levin, breathing up. He was wise and said a lot of truth.
Oh, let’s go!
A secret fortress, like all of them. He said Swiazhsky.
Who you are the leader...
- Yes, only I lead them to the other side, - laughing, Swiazhsky said.
“I’m very interested in this,” said Levin. He is right that our business, that is, the rational economy, does not, that only the growing economy is going, like this quiet, or the simplest.
Who is guilty of this?
Of course, we are ourselves. And then, it is not true that it will not come.
Vasilchikov is going.
The factory...
I don’t know what surprises you.
The people stand at such a low level of material and moral development that, obviously, they must counteract everything that is strange to them.
In Europe, rational economy goes because the people are educated; we have to form the people, and that’s all.
How do we form the people?
To form the people, three things are needed: schools, schools and schools.
But you have said that the people are at a low level of material development. What will schools help?
- You know, you remind me of a joke about the advice to the patient: "You would try the weakening." “They said it was worse.” “Test the drunk.” “I tried, it was worse.” “Well, just pray to God.” “I tried, it was worse.”
So are we with you.
I’m talking about political savings, you’re saying – worse.
Socialism is worse.
Education is worse.
What will schools help?
They will give him other needs.
“I never understood that,” Levin warned with warmth. How will schools help people improve their material status?
You say, schools, education will give him new needs.
Worse, because he will not be able to satisfy them.
And how the knowledge of composition and reading and catechism will help him improve his material state, I could never understand.
On the third day in the evening I met my grandmother with the breast baby and asked her where she was going.
She says, “I went to my grandmother, Chris attacked the boy, so she was treated.”
I asked how my grandmother treats cryx.
“The baby to the cows in the village sows and condemns something.”
Well, you speak yourself!
So that she didn’t wear to treat the cryx on the settlement, it’s necessary... – funny smiling, Sviažsky said.
Oh no no! Levin said, “This treatment for me is just a similarity to the treatment of people by schools.
People are poor and uneducated – we see it as true as a grandmother sees a cry because the child is crying.
But why from this misery — poverty and uneducation — schools will help, it is as uncomprehensible as it is uncomprehensible why from crics cows will help.
We need to help those who are poor.
Well, in this you at least agree with Spencer, whom you don’t like so much; he also says that education can be the result of greater well-being and convenience of life, frequent disturbances, as he says, but not the ability to read and count.
“Well, I’m very happy or, on the contrary, I’m not very happy that I’ve got a deal with Spencer; that’s only what I know for a long time.
Schools will not help, but will help such an economic system in which the people will be richer, there will be more abundance, and then there will be schools.
Now schools are mandatory throughout Europe.
How do you agree with Spencer? He asked Levin.
But in the eyes of Swiazhsky the expression of fear was mild, and he, smiling, said:
No, this crystal is great!
Have you heard it yourself?
Levin saw that he would never find the connection of this man’s life with his thoughts.
Obviously, he was absolutely no matter what his reasoning would lead to; he needed only the process of reasoning. And he was unpleasant when the process of consideration led him to a foolish passage.
This only he didn’t like and avoided, translating the conversation into something pleasant and fun.
All the impressions of this day, starting with the impression of the man on the half of the road, which served as the main basis of all the present impressions and thoughts, greatly excited Levin.
This sweet Swiazhsky, holding his thoughts only for public use and, obviously, having some other, secret to Levin, the foundations of life, and at the same time he is with the crowd, whose name is the legion, guiding the public opinion with his strange thoughts; this angry locker, perfectly right in his thoughts, tortured by life, but wrong with his anger to the whole class, and to the best class of Russia; his own dissatisfaction with his activity and confused hope of finding a repair of all this — all this merged into the feeling of internal anxiety and the expectation of close resolution.
Staying in a shattered room, lying on a brushed thief that suddenly swallowed with every movement of his hands and legs, Levin didn’t sleep for a long time.
None of the conversations with Swiazhsky, though a lot of intelligent was told to them, did not interest Levin; but the arguments of the locker required discussions.
Levin deliberately remembered all his words and corrected in his imagination what he replied to him.
“Yes, I had to say to him, you say that our economy does not go because the man hates all improvements and that they must be put into power; but if the economy did not go without these improvements, you would be right; but it goes, and goes only where the worker acts according to his habits, as the old man is in the middle of the road.
Your and our general dissatisfaction with the economy proves that we or the workers are guilty.
We have long been broken in our own way, in Europe, without asking about the properties of the labour force.
We will try to recognize the labour force not as the ideal labour force, but as the Russian man with his instincts, and we will organize the economy in accordance with this.
Imagine, — I should have told him, — that your business is running like the old man, that you have found a means to interest the workers in the success of work and have found the same medium in the improvements they recognize — and you, without exhausting the soil, will get two, three against the previous one.
Divide in half, give half the workforce; the difference that remains to you will be greater, and the workforce will be greater.
And to do this, we need to lower the level of the economy and interest workers in the success of the economy.
How to do this is a matter of details, but it is undoubted that it is possible.
This thought brought Levin into a strong excitement.
He didn’t sleep half a night, considering the details to bring the thought into execution.
He didn’t want to go for another day, but now he decided that he would go home early in the morning.
In addition, this character with a cutting in the dress produced in it a sense like shame and regret in a perfect evil act.
The main thing, he had to go without delay: he had to be able to offer the men a new project before the ozyme was sowed, in order to sow it on new grounds.
He decided to turn all the former farm.
The fulfillment of Levin's plan was a lot of difficulty; but he fought, as much as he was strong, and achieved, though not what he wanted, but what he could, without deceiving himself, believe that it was worth work.
One of the main difficulties was that the economy was already going, that it was not possible to stop everything and start everything first, and it was necessary to move the car.
When he, the same evening as he came home, told the speaker his plans, the speaker with apparent pleasure agreed to that part of the speech that showed that everything that was done so far was unprofitable and unprofitable.
The speaker said he said this for a long time, but he didn’t want to listen to it.
As for the proposal made by Levin, to take part, as a pitcher, together with the workers in the entire economic enterprise, the speaker expressed only a great disappointment and no certain opinion, and immediately talked about the need tomorrow to brush the rest of the rope and send the two, so that Levin felt that it was not before that.
Talking with the men about the same and making them proposals to give on new conditions of land, he also faced the main difficulty that they were so busy with the current day of work that they had never had to consider the advantages and disadvantages of the enterprise.
The naive man Ivan-skotnik seemed to have fully understood the proposal of Levin — to take part with his family in the benefits of the livestock — and quite sympathized with this enterprise. But when Levin gave him the future benefits, there was an anxiety and regret on the face of Ivan that he could not hear everything, and he quickly found himself some unbearable delay: or he was seeking for the villas to throw the seed out of the denic, or to throw water, or to purify the tail.
Another difficulty was in the unbeatable uncertainty of the peasants that the goal of the locker could be in something other than the desire to pick them up as much as possible.
They were firmly convinced that his true purpose (what he is telling them) will always be in what he will not tell them.
And they themselves, speaking, said a lot, but never said what their true goal was.
Furthermore (Levin felt that the gallestone was right), the peasants put the first and unchanged condition of any agreement that they were not forced to any new approaches of farming and to the use of new tools.
They agreed that the pudding was better, that the pudding was more successful, but they found thousands of reasons why they could not use either one or another, and although he was convinced that the level of economy should be lowered, it was unfortunate for him to give up improvements whose benefits were so obvious.
But despite all these difficulties, he achieved his own, and by autumn the thing went, or at least he seemed so.
In the beginning, Levin thought to give all the economy, as it was, to the men, the workers, and the speaker on new friendship conditions, but very soon he convinced that it was impossible, and decided to divide the economy.
The Scottish courtyard, garden, gardens, houses, fields, divided into several sections, had to be composed of separate articles.
The naive Ivan-skotnik, the best of all, seemed to Levin, who understood the case, picking up an artel, mostly from his family, became a member of the livestock garden.
The latter field, which stood eight years in the stairs, was taken with the help of the smart fountain of Fedor Rezunov by six men's families on new social bases, and the man Shuraev removed all the gardens under the same conditions.
The rest was old, but these three articles were the beginning of a new device and quite occupied Levin.
The truth is that the case was still not better than before, and Ivan strongly opposed the warm room of cows and butter oil, claiming that the cows would need less feed for the cold and that the smoked oil was more disputed, and demanded complaint, as it was in the old, and was not much interested in the fact that the money they received was not a complaint, but the delivery forward of the share of the barsh.
It is true that the company of Fedor Rezunov did not move under the seed of plugs, as agreed, justified by the fact that the time was short.
Indeed, the men of this company, though agreed to conduct this matter on new grounds, called this land not a common, but a fulfillment, and many times the men of this artel and Rezunov himself said to Levin: "They would get money for the land, and you would die and we would divorce."
Furthermore, these men all placed under various predictions the building conditioned with them on this land of livestock and regains and pulled up to the winter.
Indeed, Shuraev wanted to distribute the gardens taken to them by small men. He obviously completely transformed and seemed to be deliberately transformed to understand the conditions on which the earth was given to him.
Indeed, often, talking to the men and explaining them all the benefits of the business, Levin felt that the men only listen to the song of his voice and know firmly that whatever he said, they will not be deceived to him.
Especially he felt that when he spoke. With the smartest of the men, Reznov, and noticed that game in the eyes of Reznov, which clearly showed the laughter of Levin and the firm confidence that if there is someone to be deceived, then not he, Reznov.
But despite all this, Levin thought that the matter was going and that, strictly accounting and insisting on his own, he would prove them the benefits of such a device in the future and that then the matter will go by itself.
These affairs, along with the rest of the farm left on his hands, along with the office work on his book, took Levin so much of the summer that he almost did not go on hunting.
He learned at the end of August that the Oblonsky had gone to Moscow, from their man who brought the seat back.
He felt that without answering the letter of Darya Alexandrovna, his ignorance, which he could not remember without a paint of shame, he burned his ships and would never go to them.
The same thing he did with Swiazhsky, leaving without forgiveness.
He will never go to them either.
Now it was no matter to him.
The work of the new device of his farm took him as nothing ever in his life.
He read the books given to him by Sviazhsky, and, having written what he did not have, he read the political-economic and socialist books on this subject, and, as he expected, he did not find anything that would relate to the case he did.
In the political and economic books, in Miles, for example, which he studied first with great heat, hoping every minute to find a solution to his questions, he found the laws taken out of the situation of the European economy; but he did not see why these laws, which are not applicable to Russia, should be common.
The same he saw in socialist books: either they were beautiful, but unapplicable fantasies which he was fascinated, as a former student, or the amendments, the repairs of the situation in which Europe was placed and with which the agricultural affairs in Russia had nothing to do.
The political economy said that the laws by which the wealth of Europe was developed and developed, the laws are universal and undoubted.
The socialist doctrine said that the development under these laws leads to death.
And no one and no other gave not only the answer, but the smallest clue to what he, Levin, and all the Russian men and landowners do with their millions of hands and tens, so that they were the most productive for the general well-being.
Once he took the case, he read all that related to his subject in good faith, and intended to go abroad in the autumn to study the case on the site, so that no more happens to him on this issue of what happened to him so often on various matters.
He just begins, once, to understand the thought of the interlocutor and to expose his own, as suddenly they say to him: "A Coffman, and John, and Duba, and Mitchell?
You did not read them.
Read; they have developed this question.”
He saw now clearly that Kaufman and Mitchell had nothing to say to him.
He knew what he wanted.
He saw that Russia has beautiful lands, beautiful workers, and that in some cases, like the man on the middle of the road, the workers and the land produce a lot, in most cases, when capital is applied in Europe, they produce little, and that this happens only from that that the workers want to work and work well in one of their own ways, and that this opposition is not accidental, but permanent, based in the spirit of the people.
He thought that the Russian people, called to settle and process the enormous unemployed spaces consciously, until all the lands were occupied, kept the necessary approaches for this and that these approaches were not as bad as they usually think.
And he wanted to prove this in theory in the book and in practice in his business.
At the end of September there was a fresh forest for the construction of a courtyard on the given artery of the land and the oil was sold from the crop and the barsh was divided.
In the economy in practice, the thing went well or at least so seemed to Levin.
In order to theoretically clarify the whole matter and complete the work which, in accordance with the dreams of Levin, was not only to make a revolution in the political economy, but to completely destroy this science and to set the beginning of a new science — about the relations of the people to the earth — it was only necessary to go abroad and to study on the site all that was done there in this direction, and to find convincing evidence that all that was done there is not what is needed.
Levin only waited for the supply of wheat to get money and travel abroad.
But the rain began, which failed to remove the remaining bread and potatoes in the field, and stopped all the work and even the supply of wheat.
There was untouchable dirt on the roads; two mills fell down by the flood, and the weather became worse and worse.
On the 30th of September the sun appeared in the morning, and, hoping for the weather, Levin began to prepare for the departure.
He ordered to sink the wheat, sent a narrator to the buyer. to take the money, and himself went to the farm to make the last orders before leaving.
Nevertheless, having done all the things, wet from the rocks, which were swallowed on his leather to his neck, to his neck, but in the most vigorous and exciting state of spirit, Levin returned home to the evening.
The weather to the evening broke even worse, the grape so painfully stretched all the moist, trembling by the ears and the head of the horse that it walked side by side; but Levin under the bulk was good, and he was pleased to look around himself on the mute hands running by the wheels, and on the drops hanging on each naked shell, and on the white spots of the ungrown grape on the bridge plates, and on the juice, still meat sheet of the wheat, which broke down with a thick layer around the divided tree.
Despite the darkness of the surrounding nature, he felt excited.
Talks with the men in the remote village showed that they began to get used to their relationships.
The castle-stapick, to which he went to discuss, obviously approved Levin's plan and himself proposed to join the company for the purchase of the livestock.
“It’s only hard to go to my goal, and I’m getting my one,” Levi’s thought, “and working and working is because of what.
This is not a matter of personality, but a matter of general good.
All the economy, most importantly the state of the whole people, must completely change. Instead of poverty - common wealth, pleasure; instead of hostility - consensus and connection of interests.
In one word, the revolution is immaculate, but the greatest revolution, first in the small circle of our department, then of the province, of Russia, of the whole world. A fair thought cannot not be fruitful.
This is the purpose for which it is worth working.
And that it is I, Kosta Levin, the only one who came to the ball in a black cloth and whom Scherbatskaya refused and who is so regretful and unnecessary for himself, it does not prove anything.
I am confident that Franklin felt as low as he didn’t trust himself, remembering everything.
This does not mean anything.
And he had his own Agaphya Mikhailovna, to whom he believed his plans.”
In such thoughts, Levin has already entered the house in the darkness.
The narrator, who went to the buyer, came and brought some of the money for the wheat.
The condition with the palace was made, and on the way the narrative learned that the bread everywhere stood in the field, so the uncolored of its hundred and sixty copies was nothing compared to what the others had.
After lunch, Levin sat, as usual, with a book on a chair and, reading, continued to think about his upcoming trip in connection with the book.
He was especially clear about all the meaning of his work, and the whole periods that expressed the essence of his thoughts were composed in his mind.
“It should be recorded,” he thought. “This should be a short introduction that I previously considered unnecessary.”
He stood up to go to the writing table, and Lasa, who was lying at his feet, pulling up, also stood up and looked at him, as if he asked where to go.
But it was a time to record, because the chiefs came to the board, and Levin went out to them in front.
After the orders, that is, the orders on tomorrow’s work, and the reception of all the men who had before him, Levin went to the office and sat for work.
Lasa lie under the table; Agaphya Mikhailovna sits on her place.
After writing some time, Levin suddenly with an unusual anger remembered Kitty, her rejection and her last meeting.
He stood up and began to walk in the room.
“There’s nothing to miss,” said Agatha Mikhailovna. Why are you sitting at home?
They would go to warm water, well gathered.
“I’m going to go after tomorrow, Agaphya Mikhailovna. It has to end.
What your business!
So little you have rewarded the men!
And they say, your barin will receive grace from the king.
What do you care about men?
I don’t care about them, I do for myself.
Agaphya Mikhailovna knew all the details of Levin's economic plans.
Levin often with all the subtleties exposed her his thoughts and often disputed with her and disagreeed with her explanations.
But now she completely differently understood what he said to her.
“About her soul, a thing known, the best thing to think about,” she said with a breath. “Won Parmen Denisich, by the gift that he was unwritten, and so died, that give God to everyone,” she said about the recently dead courtman. Participated and specialized.
“I’m not talking about it,” he said. I say I do for my benefit.
It is better for me if the men work better.
Whatever you do, he whenever stripes, so everything will be rolled through the pen of the cold.
If there is conscience, it will work, and no, you will do nothing.
“Well, you say, Ivan was better to walk for the sheep.
- I say one thing, - said Agaphya Mikhailovna, obviously not by chance, but with a strict consistency of thought, - you have to marry, that's what!
The memory of Agaphya Mikhailovna about what he just thought about, angered and insulted him.
Levin swallowed and, not answering her, sat again for his work, repeating to himself all that he thought about the meaning of this work.
Sometimes only he was listening in silence to the sound of the spits of Agaphya Mikhailovna and, remembering what he didn’t want to remember, again melted.
At nine a.m. I heard a bell and a dirty vibration of the body on the dirt.
“Well, you and the guests have come, it won’t be boring,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna, standing up and going to the door.
But Levin crossed her.
His work didn’t go now, and he was happy to be any guest.
Escaping to the half of the staircase, Levin heard in the front of his acquaintance the sound of tightening; but he heard it unclearly because of the sound of his steps and hoped that he would be wrong; then he saw all the long, castle, well-known figure, and it seemed no longer possible to be deceived, but still hoped that he was wrong and that this long man, taking the shell and deceiving, was not brother Nicholas.
Levin loved his brother, but being with him was always a sad thing.
Now that Levin, under the influence of his thoughts and reminders of Agaphya Mikhailovna, was in an unclear, confused state, his upcoming encounter with his brother seemed difficult to him.
Instead of the guest of a pleasant, healthy, stranger, who, he hoped, will entertain him in his spiritual uncertainty, he had to see a brother who understands his narrowness, who will raise in him all the deepest thoughts, will make him speak well.
And that he didn’t want.
Serious to himself for this ugly feeling, Levin fled to the front. As soon as he saw his brother nearby, this feeling of personal disappointment immediately disappeared and was replaced by regret.
No matter how frightened his brother Nicholas was with his foolishness and pain before, now he’s still weakened, he’s still weakened.
It was a skeleton covered with skin.
He stood in the front, holding a long, thin neck and breaking the shark from it, and strangely sadly smiled.
Seeing that smile, humble and obedient, Levin felt that the cramps compressed his throat.
“Hey, I’ve come to you,” said Nicholas with a dull voice, not to drop his eye from his brother’s face for a moment. I’ve long wanted everything to be bad.
Now I’ve been very well,” he said, washing my beard with big weak hands.
Yes yes! He answered Levin.
And he became even more scary when he, kissing, felt the dryness of his brother’s body with his lips and saw his large, strange eyes bright nearby.
A few weeks before this, Levin wrote to his brother that for the sale of the small part that remained in the house, his brother had to get his share now, about two thousand rubles.
Nicholas said he came now to get that money and, most importantly, to stay in his nest, to touch the earth, to gather, as wealthy, forces for the upcoming activity.
Despite the increased subtility, despite the stunning with its growth, its movements, as usual, were fast and permeable.
Levin took him to the office.
Brother dressed up especially carefully, what had not happened before, scratched his rare straight hair and, smiling, went up.
He was in the most loving and joyful spirit that Levin often remembered in his childhood. He even mentioned Sergey Ivanovich without evil.
When he saw Agaphua Mikhailovna, he fooled with her and asked about the old servants. The news of Parman Denisich's death affected him unpleasantly.
His face was scared; but he immediately recovered.
“He was old,” he said and changed the conversation. “Yes, you’ll live a month, two, and then in Moscow.
You know, Mykov has promised me a place, and I am going to the service.
Now I will set my life completely differently, he continued. You know, I removed that woman.
And Mary Nicholas?
How, for what?
Oh, she’s a ugly woman!
A lot of trouble made me. But he didn’t tell me what the trouble was.
He could not say that he caught Mary Nikolaevna because the tea was weak, most importantly because she cared for him as a sick. Now I want to completely change my life.
I, of course, like everyone, did stupidity, but the state is the last thing, I do not regret it.
There would be health, and health, thanks to God, would be improved.
Levin listened and invented and could not figure out what to say.
Probably Nicholas felt the same; he began to ask his brother about his affairs; and Levin was pleased to speak about himself, because he could speak without guessing. He told his brother his plans and actions.
My brother listened, but obviously was not interested in it.
These two people were so familiar and close to each other that the smallest movement, the tone of the voice spoke for the common more than all that can be said by words.
Now they both had one thought—the illness and the proximity of the death of Nicholas, which suppressed the rest.
But neither the one nor the other had the courage to speak about her, and therefore, whatever they said, without expressing what one took them, all was a lie.
Levin never was so happy that the night was over and we had to go to bed.
Never with any stranger or on any official visit he was as unnatural and false as he was today.
And consciousness and regret in this unnaturality made it even more unnatural.
He wanted to cry over his dying beloved brother, and he had to listen and maintain the conversation about how he would live.
Since the house was cheese and only one room was heated, Levin placed his brother to sleep in his own bedroom behind the corner.
Brother was lying and sleeping or not sleeping, but as a sick, he swallowed, coughed, and when he could not swallow, he swallowed something.
Sometimes, when he was heavily breathing, he said, “Oh my God!”
Sometimes, when the scratch swallowed him, he was bored with saying, “A! The line!”
Levin didn’t sleep for a long time, listening to him.
Levin’s thoughts were very diverse, but the end of all thoughts was one: death.
Death, the inevitable end of everything, was presented to him for the first time with irreversible strength.
And this death, which here, in this beloved brother, asks, standing and indifferently according to the habit of calling the god, that character, was not as far as he thought before.
She was in him and he felt it.
Not today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not thirty years later.
And what this inevitable death was, he not only did not know, not only never thought about it, but he did not know and did not dare to think about it.
“I’m working, I want to do something, and I’m forgotten that everything is over, that’s death.”
He sat on the bed in darkness, swallowed and lifted his knees, and, stopping the breath from the tension of thought, thought.
But the more he stressed his thought, the more it became clear to him that it was undoubtedly so that he really forgot, that he saw in life one small circumstance—that death will come and everything will end, that nothing is worth starting and that it is not possible to help.
“I am still alive.
Now what to do, what to do?” He spoke with despair.
He burned the candle and stood carefully and went to the mirror and began to look at his face and his hair.
Yes, the whiskey had seated hair. He opened his mouth.
The back teeth began to break.
He naked his muscular hands.
The strength is a lot.
But Nicolanka, who breathed the remains of the lungs there, also had a healthy body. And suddenly he remembered how they slept together with the children and waited only for Fedor Bogdanic to come out for the door to throw into each other with his knives and throw, throw unbearable, so that even the fear of Fedor Bogdanic could not stop this through the end of the former and throwing consciousness of happiness of life.
“And now this hidden empty chest... and I, who don’t know why and what will happen to me...”
The Kha!
The MHA!
Oh the trait!
What do you drive because you don’t sleep? His brother’s voice climbed.
I don’t know, the insomnia.
I slept well, I have no sweat now.
Take a look at the shirt. No sweat?
Levin swallowed, went to the corner, shut down the candle, but he had not been sleeping for a long time.
He just understood a little about the question of how to live, how a new unresolved question, death, appeared.
“Well, he’s going to die, well, he’s going to die in the spring, well, how can he help him?
What can I tell him?
What do I know about it?
I forgot that it is.”
Levin has long noted that when it is uncomfortable with people from their excessive obedience, obedience, it will very soon become unbearable from their excessive demands and persistence.
He felt that it would happen to his brother.
And indeed, the courtesy of brother Nicholas was shortly enough.
From the other morning he became annoying and carefully turned to his brother, touching him for the most sick places.
Levin felt guilty and couldn’t fix it.
He felt that if they both did not pretend, but said what is called speaking by soul, that is, just what they think and feel, they would only look in the eyes of each other, and Constantine would only say, "You will die, you will die, you will die!" Nicholas said, “I know I will die, but I am afraid, I am afraid, I am afraid.”
And they’t say anything more if they had spoken only by soul.
But there was no way to live, and therefore, Constantine tried to do what he tried all his life and didn’t know how to do, and what, according to his observation. Many were so well able to do and without what it was impossible to live: he tried to say not what he thought, and he constantly felt that it was false, that his brother was catching on it and angry with it.
On the third day, Nicholas called his brother to tell him again his plan and began not only to condemn him, but began to deliberately mix him with communism.
You have only taken the thought of someone else, but you have invented it and you want to add to the unapplicable.
I tell you that it has nothing to do.
They reject the righteousness of property, capital, inheritance, and I, not denying this main incentive (Levin was opposed to himself that he used such words, but since he captured his work, he accidentally became more and more frequently using non-Russian words), I just want to regulate work.
“That’s, you’ve taken another’s thought, cut away from it everything that makes its power, and you want to make sure that it’s something new,” said Nicholas, wrathing angry in his head.
My thought has nothing to do...
“There,” said Nikolai Levin, “there is at least the beauty, as to say, the geometric, the clarity, the uncertainty.
Maybe it is utopia. But let’s admit what you can do from all the past tabula rasa: there’s no property, there’s no family, there’s work, but you don’t have anything...
Why are you mixing? I have never been a communist.
And I have been and find that it is premature, but reasonable and has a future as Christianity in the first centuries.
I only believe that the labour force must be viewed from a nature-examination point of view, that is, to study it, to recognize its properties and...
That is completely foolish.
This force itself finds, by its degree of development, a known form of activity.
There were slaves everywhere, then metayers; and we have used work, there is rent, there is battery work, what are you looking for?
Levin suddenly burned up with these words, because in the depths of his soul he feared that it was true, that it was true, that he wanted to balance between communism and certain forms, and that it was hardly possible.
I am looking for means to work productively for myself and for the worker.
“I want to arrange,” he answered warmly.
You don’t want to arrange anything; just as you’ve lived all your life, you want to originalize, show that you’re not just exploiting men, but with an idea.
Well, you think so, and leave! Levin replied, feeling that the muscle of his left shell was stumbling.
You didn’t have and you didn’t have beliefs, but you would only comfort your self-love.
Great, and leave me!
And I will leave!
It’s a long time, and go to the line!
And I am very sorry that I came!
No matter how later Levin tried to calm his brother, Nicholas didn’t want to hear anything, he said it was much better to go away, and Constantine saw that just his brother was unbearable to life.
Nicholas had already decided to leave when Constantine came to him again and unnaturally asked for apologies if something offended him.
Oh the generous! Nicholas said and smiled. If you want to be right, I can give you that pleasure.
You are right, but I will go.
Before just leaving, Nikolai kissed him and said, suddenly strangely seriously looking at his brother:
Don’t think of me, Cottage! And the voice drowned him.
These were the only words that were said honestly.
Levin understood what these words meant: "You see and know that I am bad, and maybe we will not see each other anymore."
Levin understood it, and tears broke out of his eyes.
He kissed his brother again, but he could not and could not tell him anything.
On the third day after the departure, his brother and Levin left abroad.
Meeting on the railway with Scherbatsky, Kitty's two-year-old brother, Levin was very surprised by his darkness.
— What about you? — asked Sherbacki to him.
No, no, there is little fun in the world.
How little? I’m going to Paris instead of a Muluza.
Look how fun!
No, I have finished. It is time for me to die.
– That’s the thing! – laughed, said Scherbatsky. I was just ready to start.
I thought so recently, but now I know I’m going to die soon.
Levin said what he really thought about it recently.
He only saw the death or the approach to it. But the hidden affairs even more occupied him.
I had to live life until death came.
The darkness covered everything for him; but it was because of this darkness that he felt that the only lead line in this darkness was his work, and he with his last strength captured and held for him.
Part of Thursday
Karenina, husband and wife, continued to live in one house, met each day, but were completely strange to each other.
Aleksei Aleksandrovich, as a rule, put every day to see his wife, so that the servant had no right to make assumptions, but avoided lunch at home.
Vronsky was never in the house of Alexey Alexandrovich, but Anna saw him outside of the house, and his husband knew it.
The situation was painful for all three, and no one of them would be able to live one day in this situation if he did not expect it to change and that it is only a temporary terrible difficulty that will pass.
Aleksei Aleksandrovich waited that this passion will pass, as everything goes, that everyone will forget about it and his name will remain neglected.
Anna, from whom this situation was dependent and for whom it was most tortuous for all, suffered it because she not only waited but was firmly sure that all of this will soon dissolve and become clear.
She definitely didn’t know what would dissolve this situation, but she was firmly sure that something would come now very soon.
Wronsky, unwillingly obeying her, also expected something independent of him, which had to clarify all the difficulties.
In the middle of the winter, Vronsky spent a very boring week.
He was attached to the foreign prince arriving in St. Petersburg and had to show him the sights of St. Petersburg.
Wronsky himself was representative; in addition, he had the art of keeping himself decent and respectful and had the habit of treating such persons; therefore he was attached to the prince.
But his duty seemed to be very hard for him.
The prince wanted not to miss anything that he would be asked at home if he saw it in Russia; and he wanted to take advantage of the Russian pleasures as much as possible. Vronsky was obliged to lead him in the same and the other.
In the morning they went to explore the sights, and in the evening they participated in national pleasures.
The prince enjoined an unusual health even among the princes; and with gymnastics and good care for his body he brought himself to such strength that, despite the excess that he gave in pleasures, he was fresh as a big green glowing Dutch garlic.
The prince traveled a lot and found that one of the main advantages of today’s ease of communication is the availability of national pleasures.
He was in Spain and there he gave serenades and came closer to the Spanish playing the mandoline.
He killed a gems in Switzerland. In England, he jumped in a red crack through the bars and killed two hundred fasans.
In Turkey he was in a harem, in India he was on an elephant and now in Russia he wanted to taste all special Russian pleasures.
Wronsky, former to him as the main ceremonial master, had a great effort to distribute all the Russian pleasures offered to the prince by different persons. There were both thieves, and blins, and bears hunting, and trioys, and cigans, and coats with the Russian bite of the dishes.
And the prince with extraordinary ease captured the Russian spirit, was drawn up with the dish, sat the Gigan on his knees and seemed to ask: what else, or only this is the whole Russian spirit?
In essence, of all Russian pleasures the most liked the prince French actresses, ballet dancer and champagne with white footprint.
Wronsky had a habit of the princes, but whether it was because he himself has changed recently, or because he was too close to that prince, this week seemed to him terribly difficult. He continued to experience the feeling of a person who would be attached to a dangerous madman, feared a madman, and together, in close proximity to him, feared for his own mind.
Wronsky constantly felt the need, for a second, not to weaken the tone of strict official respect, so as not to be insulted.
The manner of dealing with the prince with the same faces who, to the surprise of Vronsky, came out of the skin to bring him Russian pleasures, was negligent.
His judgments about the Russian women he wanted to study, repeatedly forced Vronsky to redness from anger.
The main reason why the prince was especially heavy to Vronsky was that he accidentally saw himself in it. And what he saw in this mirror did not shake his self-love.
He was a very stupid, and very confident, and very healthy, and very pure person, and nothing more.
He was a gentleman—it was true, and Vronsky couldn’t deny it.
He was equal and unexpected to the higher, he was free and easy to deal with the equal, and he was negligently benevolent to the lower.
Wronsky himself was such, and he considered it a great dignity; but he was lower to the prince, and this negligent and benevolent attitude to him angered him.
“The foolish cow! I am like that!” He thought.
Anyway, when he said goodbye to him on the seventh day, before his departure to Moscow, and received gratitude, he was happy to get rid of this unpleasant situation and the unpleasant mirror.
He said goodbye to him at the station, returning with the bear hunting, where all night they had a presentation of Russian youth.
After returning home, Vronsky found a note from Anna.
She wrote, “I am sick and unhappy.
I can't go out, but I can't see you further.
Come in the evening. At seven a.m. Alexey Aleksandrovich goes to the council and will wake up to ten."
Thinking for a moment about the strange thing that she calls him straight to herself, despite the husband’s request not to accept him, he decided that he would go.
Vronsky was produced in this winter as colonels, came out of the regiment and lived alone.
After breakfast, he immediately slept on the sofa, and at five minutes of the memories of the foolish scenes he saw in the last days, confused and linked with the idea of Anna and the man-cover who played an important role in the bear hunt; and Vronsky slept.
He woke up in darkness, trembling from fear, and suddenly burned a candle.
“What is that? What?
What’s terrible I saw in a dream?
Yes yes. The carpenter appears to be small, dirty, with a dirty burdock, doing something swallowing and suddenly speaking some strange words in French.
“There was nothing in the dream,” he said to himself. “But why was it so terrible?”
He lively recalled again the man and those incomprehensible French words that this man spoke, and the horror fled cold on his back.
“What a blow!” I thought of Vronsky and looked at the clock.
It was half ninth.
He called the man, quickly clothed and went out on the wing, completely forgotten the sleep and suffered only by the delay.
Into the wing of the Kareninians, he looked at the clock and saw that it was without ten minutes and nine.
A high, narrow car, stuck with a pair of grey, stood at the entrance.
He knew the caret of Anna. “She goes to me,” Wronsky thought, “and it would be better.
I am unpleasant to enter this house.
But no matter what; I can’t hide,” he said to himself, and with those learned by him from childhood, the receptions of a man whom there is nothing to be ashamed, Vronsky went out of the sauna and approached the door.
The door opened, and the Switzerland suspected the car with a plate on his hand.
Wronsky, not used to notice the details, noticed, however, now the surprising expression with which the Switzerland looked at him.
In the most doors, Vronsky almost encountered Alexey Alexandrovich.
The rubber of the gas directly enlightened the immaculate, swallowed face under a black hat and a white cloth that glowed out of the bobra jacket.
Karenin's silent, silent eyes struggled to the face of Vronsky.
Vronsky worshipped, and Alexey Alexandrovich, burning with his mouth, raised his hand to his hat and passed.
Vronsky saw how he, without looking, sat in the car, took the plate and binocle into the window and escaped.
Vronsky entered the front.
His bridges were overwhelmed, and his eyes glowed with a evil and proud glow.
“This is the situation! – he thought. If he fought, defended his honour, I could act, express my feelings; but this weakness or foolishness...
He puts me in the position of a deceiver, while I don’t want and don’t want to be that.”
Since his explanation with Anna, in the Vrede Garden, the thoughts of Vronsky have changed a lot.
He, unwillingly understood the weaknesses of Anna, which was all given to him and only expected from him the solution of her fate, understood everything, has long ceased to think that this connection could end, as he thought then.
His charitable plans backward again, and he, feeling that he came out of the circle of activity in which everything was determined, gave all his feeling, and that feeling increasingly strongly and strongly attached him to it.
Even in the front he heard her moving steps. He realized that she was waiting for him, listening and now returning to the living room.
No is! - she screamed when she saw him, and at the first sound of her voice tears came into her eyes, - no, if this will continue so, it will happen much more, much earlier!
What my friend?
What?
I’m waiting, I’m suffering, an hour, two...
No, I won’t be!
I can’t dispute with you.
Yes, you couldn’t.
No, I will not!
She placed both hands on his shoulders and looked at him for a long time with a deep, enthusiastic and experiential look.
She studied his face for the time she didn’t see him.
She, as with every date, reduced into one her imaginary idea of him (uncomparably best, impossible in reality) with him as he was.
Have you met him? She asked when they sat at the table under the lamp. This is the punishment for the delay.
Yes, but how?
Should he be in the council?
He was and returned and went somewhere again.
But it is nothing. Don’t talk about it.
Where have you been?
All with the Prince?
She knew all the details of her life.
He wanted to say he didn’t sleep all night and slept, but looking at her excited and happy face, he became conscious.
And he said he had to go to report the Prince's departure.
But is it over now?
He has gone?
Thank God it ended.
You won’t believe how unbearable it was to me.
Why not?
For this is the eternal life of all of you, young men, — she said, swallowing the bridges, and, taking the burial that was on the table, began, without looking at Vronsky, to throw out a crack out of it.
“I’ve left this life for a long time,” he said, surprised by the change in the expression of her face and trying to penetrate its meaning. “And I admit,” he said, with a smile showing my thick white teeth, “I looked like in the mirror this week, looking at this life, and I was unpleasant.
She kept the bond in her hands, but she didn’t bind it, but she looked at it with a strange, bright and unfriendly look.
“Night in the morning, Lisa went to me—they are not afraid to go to me, despite Count Lydia Ivanovna,” she said, “and she told me about your Athenian evening.
What a shit!
I just wanted to say that...
She crossed him.
Was it Theresia that you knew before?
I wanted to say...
How stupid are you, men!
How can you not imagine that a woman cannot forget this, she said, getting more and more hot and thus revealing her the cause of her irritation. Especially a woman who cannot know your life.
What do I know? What did I know? She said, what you will say to me.
I know if you told me the truth...
And Anna! You offend me.
Are you not believing me?
Did I not tell you that I have no thought that I would not open up to you?
“Yes, yes,” she said, apparently trying to remove jealous thoughts. If you knew how hard it was for me!
I believe, I believe you...
So what did you say?
But he could not immediately remember what he wanted to say.
These attacks of jealousy, more and more frequently found on her, scared him and, whatever he tried to hide it, cooled him to her, despite the fact that he knew that the cause of jealousy was love for him.
How many times he said to himself that her love was happiness; and here she loved him, how can she love a woman for whom love overweighted all the goods in life, and he was far beyond happiness than when he went for her from Moscow.
Then he considered himself unhappy, but happiness was ahead; now he felt that the best happiness was already behind.
She was not the one she saw her first time.
Morally and physically, it has changed to worse.
She all expanded, and in her face, while she spoke about the actress, there was a evil, distorting her face expression.
He looked at her as a man looked at the flower broken by him, in which he was hard to recognize the beauty for which he broke and destroyed him.
And, despite that, he felt that when his love was stronger, he could, if he strongly wanted it, break that love out of his heart, but now, when, as at that moment, he seemed that he didn’t feel love for her, he knew that his connection with her cannot be broken.
What did you want to tell me about the prince?
I persecuted, I persecuted the devil, she added.
The wrath was called jealousy. So you started talking about the prince?
Why was it so hard for you?
- Oh, unbearable! - he said, trying to catch the thread of the lost thought. He doesn’t win from close acquaintance.
If to identify him, it’s a well-footed animal, which at the exhibitions receives pear medals, and nothing more, he said with boredness, interested in her.
No, what about? She objected. He has seen a lot, educated.
This is a completely different education – their education.
He seems to be educated only to have the right to neglect education, as they all neglect, except for animal pleasures.
“Yes, you all love these animals’ pleasures,” she said, and again he noticed the dark look that avoided him.
What do you protect him so much? He said with a smile.
I don’t defend, I don’t care, but I think if you didn’t like these pleasures, you could refuse.
And you’re pleased to see Teresa in the costume of Eve.
- Again, again, the devil! - taking the hand she placed on the table and kissing her, Wronsky said.
Yes, but I can’t!
You don’t know how sad I was waiting for you!
I don’t think I’m jealous.
I am not jealous; I believe in you when you are here, with me; but when you are somewhere alone, you lead your ununderstood life to me.
She turned away from it, eventually leaked the cracks out of the veil, and quickly, with the help of the indicative finger, began to swallow one after the other the white, glowing under the light of the lamp of the hair, and quickly, nervously, the thin cracks in the shade handbag turned.
Well how? Where did you meet Alexey Alexandrovich? Suddenly, her voice sounded unnaturally.
We met in the doors.
Is he worshipped you so?
She stretched her face and, half closed her eyes, quickly changed the expression of her face, placed her hands, and Vronsky in her beautiful face suddenly saw the same expression of her face with which Alexey Alexandrovich worshipped him.
He smiled, and she laughed joyfully with that sweet breast laughter, which was one of her main beauty.
“I definitely don’t understand him,” Wronsky said. If after your explanation on the dache he would break with you, if he would call me to a duel... but I don’t understand this: how can he bear such a position? He is suffering, it is visible.
He is? She said with a laughter. He is completely satisfied.
Why do we all suffer when everything could be so good?
But not he.
Do I don’t know him, that lies he’s all asked about?
Can I, feeling something, live as he lives with me?
He does not understand, he does not feel.
Can a man who feels something live with his criminal wife in one house?
Can we talk to her? Tell her you?
And she unintentionally presented him again. “You, ma chere, you, Anna!”
It’s not a man, not a man, it’s a doll.
No one knows, but I know.
Oh, if I had been in his place, I would have killed for a long time, I would have broken this woman, like me, and not say, you, ma chere, Anna.
It’s not a man, it’s a ministerial machine.
He doesn’t understand that I’m your wife, that he’s a stranger, that he’s extra.
“You’re not right or right, my friend,” Wronsky said, trying to calm her. Nevertheless, let’s not talk about it.
Tell me what you did?
What about you?
What is this disease and what did the doctor say?
She looked at him with a laughing joy.
Apparently, she found even more funny and ugly sides in her husband and waited for time to tell them.
I guess it’s not a disease, it’s your condition.
When will it be?
A laughing glow drowned in her eyes, but another smile — the knowledge of something unknown to him and the silent sadness — replaced her former expression.
Soon, soon and soon.
You said that our situation is painful, that we have to break it out.
If you knew how hard it was to me, what would I give for free and courageously to love you!
I’t suffer and I’t suffer you with my jealousy.
And it will be soon, but not as we think.
And when she thought about how it would be, she seemed so sad to herself that tears came out on her eyes, and she couldn’t continue.
She put the bright under the lamp with the rings and the white hand on his arms.
It will not be as we think.
I didn’t want to tell you that, but you forced me.
Soon, soon everything will break up, and we all, we all will calm and we will no longer suffer.
“I don’t understand,” he said, understood.
You asked when?
soon to. And I won’t experience that.
Do not break! And she stumbled to speak. I know it, and I know it right. I’m going to die, and I’m glad to die and save myself and you.
The tears flowed from her eyes; he turned to her hand and began kissing, trying to hide his excitement, which, he knew, had no reason, but he couldn’t overcome it.
“Hey, that’s better,” she said, pressing his hand with a strong movement. This is one thing, one thing that we have left.
He remembered and lifted his head.
What a blow! What a meaningless discourse you say!
No, it is true.
What, what is true?
That I will die. I saw a dream.
The dream? - repeated Vronsky and immediately remembered his husband in a dream.
“Yes, a dream,” she said. I have seen that dream for a long time.
I saw that I fled into my bedroom, that I had to take something there, to learn something; you know how it happens in a dream, — she said, scaredly opening her eyes, — and in the bedroom, in the corner, something stands.
Oh, what a blow!
How can I believe...
But she didn’t let herself break.
What she said was too important to her.
And that’s something turned, and I see that it’s a man with a broken beard, small and terrible.
I wanted to run away, but he swallowed over the bag and his hands got something out there...
She imagined how he stumbled in the bag. Horror was on her face.
And Vronsky, remembering his dream, felt the same horror that filled his soul.
He covers and judges in French, soon and soon, and, you know, grasses: "Il faut le battre le fer, le broyer, le petrir..."
And from fear I wanted to wake up, I woke up... but I woke up in a dream.
I began to ask myself what it meant. And Kornay says to me, “Generation, birth, mother...”
And I woke up...
- What a blow, what a blow! - said Vronsky, but he himself felt that there was no conviction in his voice.
But let’s not talk.
Call me, I will give you a tea.
Wait, not long now...
But suddenly she stopped.
The expression of her face changed instantly.
Horror and excitement suddenly replaced themselves with an expression of quiet, serious and blessed attention.
He could not understand the meaning of this change.
She heard the movement of a new life.
Alexey Alexandrovich, after meeting with Vronsky on his wing, went, as he was intended, to an Italian opera.
He sat there two acts and saw everyone he needed.
Returning home, he carefully looked at the wardrobe and, noticing that there was no military jacket, as usual, went to himself. But, contrary to the usual, he didn’t sleep and walked back and forward through his office until three o’clock in the night.
The feeling of anger on the wife, who did not want to observe the merit and fulfill the only condition given to her — not to accept her lover, did not give him peace.
She has not fulfilled his demands, and he must punish her and carry out her threat — to demand divorce and take the son away.
He knew all the difficulties associated with this case, but he said he would do it, and now he has to meet the threat.
Count Lydia Ivanovna suggested that this was the best way out of his position, and recently the practice of divorce led this matter to such improvement that Alexey Aleksandrovich saw the opportunity to overcome formal difficulties.
In addition, the trouble one doesn’t go, and the affairs about the establishment of foreigners and the irrigation of the fields of the Zaray Governorate have caused Alexey Aleksandrovich such trouble in service that he all this last time was in extreme irritation.
He didn’t sleep all night, and his anger, increasing in some huge progress, reached the extreme limits of the morning.
He quickly clothed and, as if he had a full glass of anger and feared to spread it, feared, together with anger, to lose the energy he needed to explain to his wife, entered it as soon as he learned that she was up.
Anna, thinking she knows her husband so well, was surprised by his sight when he came in to her.
His neck was overwhelmed, and his eyes looked darkly in front of themselves, avoiding her sight; his mouth was firm and negligent.
In the walk, in the movements, in the sound of his voice was the determination and firmness that his wife had never seen in him.
He entered the room and, unhappy with her, directed to her writing table and, taking the keys, opened the box.
What do you need?She screamed.
“The letter of your lover,” he said.
“They’re not here,” she said, closing the box; but by this move he realized that he was guessing right, and, hardly pushing her hand, quickly captured the wallet in which he knew that she was putting the most needed papers.
She wanted to break her wallet, but he pulled her off.
and sit! “I have to talk to you,” he said, putting the wallet under the mouse and pressing it so tightly with the lock that his shoulder was lifted.
She was surprised and silently looking at him.
I told you I will not allow you to take your lover.
I had to see him in order to...
She stopped without finding any imagination.
I don’t know in detail why a woman needs to see a lover.
“I wanted, I just... I exploded,” she said.
His cruelty irritated her and gave her courage. Do you not feel how easy you are to offend me? She said.
It is possible to offend an honest man and an honest woman, but to say to the thief that he is a thief, there is only a constatation of a fact.
This new feature – the cruelty I didn’t know in you yet.
You call cruelty what the husband gives freedom to his wife by giving her honourful blood only under the condition of honour.
Is that cruelty?
It’s worse than cruelty, it’s foolish if you want to know! With the explosion of evil, Anna screamed and, stood up, wanted to leave.
No is! He cried with his whispering voice, which was now heightened with a note above the usual, and, with his big fingers taking it for his hand so strongly that the red traces remained on it from the bracelet he cried, he forcefully placed it on his place.
The foolish?
If you want to use this word, then foolishness is to leave the husband, the son for the lover and eat the bread of the husband!
She swallowed her head.
She didn’t just say that she told her girlfriend yesterday that she was her husband, but her husband was excessive; she didn’t even think about it.
She felt all the righteousness of his words and just said quietly:
You can’t describe my situation worse than I understand it, but why do you say it all?
Why do I say this? Why? He continued as angry. In order for you to know that, as you have not fulfilled my will in respect of virtue, I will accept that this situation ends.
— Soon, soon it will end and so, — said she, and again tears when thinking about the near, now desired death came to her eyes.
It will end faster than you have invented with your lover!
You need the satisfaction of the animal passion.
Alexey Alexandrovich!
I don’t say that it’s unrighteous, but it’s unrighteous – to beat the lie.
“Yes, you just remember yourself, but the suffering of the man who was your husband, you don’t care.You don’t care that all his life was broken, that he plays... plays... plays.
Alexey Aleksandrovich said so soon that he was confused and could not say that word at all.
He spoke him at the end of the pellet. She became funny and suddenly ashamed that she could have something funny at that moment.
And for the first time she felt for him for a moment, moved into him, and she was sad for him.
What could she say or do?
She dropped her head and silenced.
He also silenced for a while and then spoke with a less spicy, cold voice, highlighting arbitrarily chosen words that do not have any special importance.
“I came to tell you,” he said.
She looked at him.
“No, it seemed to me,” she thought, remembering the expression of his face, when he was confused with the words of the pellestad, “no, can a person with these dirty eyes, with this self-sufficient calmness feel something?”
“I can’t change anything,” she screamed.
“I’ve come to tell you that I’m going to Moscow tomorrow and I’m not going to return to this house, and you’ll be informed of my decision through the lawyer to whom I will assign the divorce case.
“My son will go to my sister,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, trying to remember what he wanted to say about his son.
“You need Sereza to make me hurt,” she spoke, deeply looking at him. You don’t love him...
Leave the network!
“Yes, I’ve even lost my love for my son because my hatred for you is related to him, but I’ll still take him.
Goodbye to me!
And he wanted to leave, but now she has arrested him.
Alexei Aleksandrovich, leave it! She screamed again. I have nothing to say anymore.
Leave it to my...
I’m going to be born soon, leave it!
Alexey Alexandrovich exploded and, breaking her hand, silently came out of the room.
The reception room of the famous Petersburg lawyer was full when Alexey Alexandrovich entered it.
Three ladies: a old woman, a young woman and a buyer, three lords: one - a bankier-German with a ring on the finger, the other - a buyer with a beard, and the third - a angry officer in the wickmunder, with a cross on the neck, obviously, have long been waiting.
Two assistants were writing on the tables, scratched with pearls.
The written accessories, before which Alexey Alexandrovich was a hunter, were unusually good, Alexey Alexandrovich could not ignore this.
One of the assistants, not standing up, shaken, angryly addressed Alexey Alexandrovich:
What do you like?
I have a deal with a lawyer.
- The lawyer is busy, - strictly answered the assistant, pointing a pen on those waiting, and continued to write.
Can he find time? - said Alexey Alexandrovich.
He has no free time, he’s always busy.
Let me wait.
- So don't try to submit my card, - said Aleksei Aleksandrovich decently, seeing the need to open his incognito.
The assistant took the card and, obviously, not approving its content, went to the door.
Alexey Alexandrovich was sympathic to the public court in principle, but to some details of his application in us he was not quite sympathic, according to his well-known higher official relationships, and condemned them, to the extent he could condemn anything higher approved.
His entire life spent in administrative activities, and therefore, when he did not sympathize with anything, his dissatisfaction was mitigated by the recognition of the need for errors and the possibility of correction in every case.
In the new courts he did not approve the conditions to which the lawyer was placed.
But he still had no affairs before the lawyer and therefore did not approve it only theoretically; now his disapproval was increased by the unpleasant impression he received in the admissive lawyer.
“Today they’ll come out,” said the assistant, “and indeed, within two minutes there was a long figure of the old law scientist who had consulted the lawyer and the lawyer himself.
The lawyer was a small, rooted, pleasant man with a black and pink beard, a bright long brush and a swallowed forehead. He was dressed, like a bride, from a twist and a double chain to layer shoes.
The face was smart, male, and a set of French and bad taste.
— Sorry — said the lawyer, addressing Alexey Alexandrovich. And, blindly missing Karenina, he closed the door.
Not pleasant? He pointed on the chair at a paper-written table and sat himself on the chairplace, washing the small hands with short, white hair fingers and laying his head on the side.
But just he calmed in his posture as a mole fled over the table.
The lawyer with a speed that could not be expected from him, stretched his hands, captured the mole and again took the previous position.
“Before I begin to talk about my case,” said Alexey Aleksandrovich, surprisedly watching the lawyer’s movement, “I have to notice that the case I have to talk about with you must be a secret.
A very noticeable smile sparked the red-wrapped ears of the lawyer.
I’t be a lawyer if I couldn’t keep my secrets.
If you want a confirmation...
Alexey Alexandrovich looked at his face and saw that the gray smart eyes laughed and everyone knew.
Do you know my name? continued by Alexey Alexandrovich.
- I know you and your useful, - again he captured the mol, - the activity, like any Russian, - said the lawyer, inclined.
Alexey Alexandrovich breathed, gathering with the spirit. But once he decided, he had already continued with his foolish voice, not doing, not recording and emphasizing some words.
“I have a misfortune,” began Alexey Alexandrovich, “to be a deceived husband and I want to legally break the relationship with my wife, that is, to divorce, but at the same time so that the son does not stay with the mother.
The gray eyes of the lawyer sought not to laugh, but they jumped out of unbearable joy, and Alexey Alexandrovich saw that there was no one ra — a man receiving a profitable order — there was a celebration and enthusiasm, there was a glow, similar to that evil glow he saw in the eyes of his wife.
Do you want my help to make a divorce?
Yes, right, but I must warn you that I am at risk of abusing your attention.
I just came to consult you in advance.
I want a divorce, but for me, the forms in which it is possible are important.
It is very likely that if the forms do not match my requirements, I will refuse the legal claim.
“Oh, it’s always so,” said the lawyer, “and it’s always in your will.
The lawyer laid his eyes on Alexey Alexandrovich's legs, feeling that he could offend the client by seeing his unbearable joy.
He looked at the mole flying in front of his nose, and drowned his hand, but did not catch it from respect for the position of Alexey Alexandrovich.
- Although in general our laws on this subject are known to me, - continued Alexey Alexandrovich, - I would like to know in general the forms in which in practice this kind of case is carried out.
“You want, without lifting your eyes, the lawyer answered, not without pleasure entering the tone of your client’s speech, that I show you the ways through which your wish can be fulfilled.
And on the confirmative inclination of the head of Alexey Alexandrovich he continued, occasionally only looking mildly on the red-fledged face of Alexey Alexandrovich.
“The divorce by our laws,” he said with a light shade of disagreement with our laws, “is possible, as you know, in the following cases.
He turned to the assistant who stood out to the door, but he still stood up, said a few words and sat again. - In the following cases: the physical shortcomings of the spouses, then the unknown five-year decay, - he said, swallowing the hair-grown short finger, - then the marriage (this word he said with visible pleasure).
The subdivisions are as follows (he continued to swallow his thick fingers, although cases and subdivisions could obviously not be classified together): the physical disadvantages of the husband or wife, then the marriage of the husband or wife. - As all the fingers came out, he turned them all down and continued: - This is a theoretical view, but I think you have made me honour to contact me to learn the practical application.
And therefore, guided by the precedents, I have to report to you that divorce cases all come to the following: there are no physical disadvantages, how can I understand? And also an unknown absence.
Alexey Aleksandrovich slipped his head.
- They come to the following: the pre-marriage of one of the spouses and the dismissal of the criminal party by mutual agreement and, in addition to such agreement, the dismissal is unintentional.
I have to say that the latter case is rarely in practice, — said the lawyer and, looking a little at Alexey Alexandrovich, a silver, like a gun seller, who described the benefits of both weapons and waiting for the choice of his buyer.
But Alexey Alexandrovich was silent, and that’s why the lawyer continued: “The most common and simple, reasonable, I think, is pre-marriage according to mutual agreement.
“I’t allow myself to speak like that with an undeveloped person,” the lawyer said, “but I think that’s clear to us.
Alexei Aleksandrovich was, however, so disappointed that he did not immediately understand the reasonability of marriage by mutual agreement and expressed this confusion in his view; but the lawyer immediately helped him:
“People can no longer live together – this is the fact, and if both agree, the details and formalities become indifferent. However, this is the easiest and most true method.
Alexey Alexandrovich understands it now.
But he had religious demands that prevented the admission of this measure.
“It’s out of question in this case,” he said. “There is only one case possible: unwilling distraction, confirmed by the letters I have.
When referring to the letters, the lawyer pulled his lips and produced a thin compassionate and neglecting sound.
Let me see, he started. “The affairs of this kind are resolved, as you know, by the spiritual department; the fathers of the protopopopes in the affairs of this kind are great hunters to the smallest details,” he said with a smile showing sympathy to the taste of the protopopes. The letter, without a doubt, can confirm partly; but the evidence must be obtained directly, i.e. by witnesses.
In general, if you make me honour to give me your trust, give me the choice of the measures to be used.
Whoever wants the result, he also allows the funds.
- If so... - suddenly blinded, Alexey Aleksandrovich began, but at that time the lawyer stood up and went out again to the door to his assistant.
Tell her that we are not on cheap goods! He said and returned to Alexey Alexandrovich.
Returning to the place, he captured an unseenly another mole.
“Good will be my reps in the summer!” He thought he was cloudy.
“So, you’ve been able to speak,” he said.
“I will inform you of my decision in writing,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, stood up and took the table.
Standing a little silent, he said, “From your words I can conclude, therefore, that divorce is possible.
I would ask you to tell me what your conditions are.
“Maybe all, if you give me full freedom of action, without answering the question,” the lawyer said. When can I expect to receive the news from you? - asked the lawyer, moving to the door and glowing and with eyes and lacky socks.
In a week.
Your answer about whether you accept the application in this case and under what conditions you will be so good, tell me.
Very good s.
The lawyer worshipped respectfully, released the client out of the door and, left alone, gave himself to his joyful feeling.
He was so pleased that, contrary to his rules, he gave up the traded bar and ceased to catch the mould, finally deciding that to the next winter the furniture must be overthrown with a barhat, like Sigonine.
Alexey Aleksandrovich won a brilliant victory at the commission meeting on August 17, but the consequences of this victory cut him down.
The new commission for research in all aspects of foreigners has been composed and sent to the place with the unusual, exciting Alexey Alexandrovich speed and energy.
Three months later the report was submitted.
Being foreigners has been studied in political, administrative, economic, ethnographic, material and religious relations.
The answers to all questions were perfectly exposed, and the answers were unquestionable, since they were not a work always exposed to the errors of human thought, but all were a work of service.
The answers were all the results of the official data, the reports of governors and archipelago, based on the reports of the departmental chiefs and the charitable, based on the reports of the departmental governments and the pastoral priests; and therefore all these answers were undoubted.
All those questions about, for example, why there are disagreements, why the inhabitants keep their beliefs, etc., questions that without the convenience of the service machine are not solved and cannot be solved by centuries, have received clear, undoubted resolution.
And the decision was in favour of the opinion of Alexey Alexandrovich.
But Stremov, feeling busy for living in the last session, used the unexpected tactics by Alexey Aleksandrovich when receiving the reports of the commission.
Stretch, pushing for himself some other members, suddenly passed to the side of Alexey Alexandrovich and with heat not only defended the implementation of the measures proposed by Karenin, but also proposed other extreme in the same spirit.
These measures, strengthened against what was the basic idea of Alexey Aleksandrovich, were taken, and then Stremov's tactics became naked.
These measures, brought to the extreme, suddenly turned out to be so stupid that at the same time both the people of the state, and the public opinion, and the smart ladies, and the newspapers — all broke up on these measures, expressing their anger and against the measures themselves and against their recognized father, Alexey Alexandrovich.
Stremov turned away, making it seem that he was only blindly following Karenin's plan and now himself is surprised and angry with what has been done. It cuts Alexey Alexandrovich.
But despite the falling health, despite family fears, Alexey Alexandrovich did not give up.
There was a division in the commission.
Some members with Stremov at the head justified their mistake by believing the audit commission, led by Alexey Alexandrovich, presented the report, and said that the report of this commission is a blast and only a written paper.
Alexey Aleksandrovich and a party of people who saw the danger of such a revolutionary relationship with papers continued to support the data developed by the review commission.
As a result, in the higher spheres and even in society, everything was confused, and, despite the fact that everyone was extremely interested in it, no one could understand whether foreigners are really disastering and dying, or prospering.
The situation of Alexey Alexandrovich as a result of this and partially as a result of the negligence that fell upon him for his wife's unfaithfulness became very shake.
And in this situation, Alexey Aleksandrovich made an important decision.
He, to surprise the commission, announced that he would ask for permission to go to the place for the investigation of the case. And, asking for permission, Alexey Alexandrovich went to the distant Governorate.
The departure of Alexey Aleksandrovich made a lot of noise, especially that he at the departure himself officially returned the money on paper issued to him for twelve horses to pass to the destination.
“I find it very noble,” Betty spoke about it with Princess Soft. Why give on the postal horses when everyone knows that the railways are everywhere now?
But the princess Soft was disagreeing, and the opinion of the princess Tversky even irritated her.
“You’re good to say,” she said, “when you have millions I don’t know which, but I love when my husband travels to review in the summer.
He's very good and pleasant to go, and I'm so committed that for this money I have the crew and the carrier.
With a trip to the remote province, Alexey Aleksandrovich stopped for three days in Moscow.
On the other day of his arrival, he went with a visit to the Governor General.
On the crossing of the Gazetny Crossing, where crew and carriers are always crowded, Alexey Alexandrovich suddenly heard his name, screaming with such a loud and joyful voice that he couldn’t look out.
On the corner of the corner, in a short fashion jacket, with a short fashion hat, glowing with a smile of white teeth between the red lips, joyful, young, glowing, Stepan Arkadić stood, determined and insistently screaming and demanding stops.
He kept one hand behind the window on the corner of the car, from which the woman's head in a barhate hat and two child's heads were drowned, and he smiled and managed the uncle's hand.
The lady smiled with a good smile and also hugged the hand to Alexey Alexandrovich.
It was Dolly with the kids.
Alexey Aleksandrovich didn’t want to see anyone in Moscow, but at least his wife’s brother.
He lifted the hat and wanted to go, but Stephan Arkadić told his dog to stop and fled to him through the snow.
The sin is not to say!
And I was at Dussos yesterday and I see on the "Karenin" board, and I didn't think that it was you! Stephan Arkadić spoke with his head to the window of the car. And then I would go.
How glad I see you! He spoke, throwing his legs over his legs, so that the snow would take away from them. The sin is not to be known. He repeated it.
“I’ve ever been, I’m very busy,” said Alexey Alexandrovich.
Let’s go to my wife, she wants to see you like that.
Alexey Alexandrovich sparked the plate, under which his frogs were stuck, and, when he came out of the car, passed through the snow to Darje Alexandrovne.
What is it, Alexey Alexandrovich, why do you treat us so much? Dolly said, smiling.
I was very busy.
I am very pleased to see you,” he said in a tone that clearly said that he was angry with this. How is your health?
What about my dear Anna?
Alexey Alexandrovich was cleaning something and wanted to leave. But Stepan Arkadic stopped him.
This is what we will do tomorrow.
Call him for lunch!
We will call Koznyshev and Peskov to accommodate him with the Moscow intelligence.
“Yes, please come,” Dolly said, “we’ll wait for you at five or six if you want.
What about my dear Anna?
How long...
“She’s healthy,” Aleksei Aleksandrovich swallowed. Very pleased! And he went to his car.
Are you? I screamed Dolly.
Alexey Alexandrovich spoke something that Dolly could not hear in the noise of the crew moving.
“I’m going to go tomorrow,” Stepan Arkadic screamed.
Alexey Alexandrovich sat in the car and deepened into it so that he could not see or be visible.
The miracle! -Stepan Arkadić said to his wife and, looking at the clock, made a hand movement in front of his face, meaning a grace to his wife and children, and the young woman went on the trail.
Stay is!
She screamed Dolly, red.
He turned.
I want to buy a Grizzly jacket and Tane.
Give me money!
“Nothing, you’ll say that I’m going to give up, and he escaped, joyfully throwing his head to the acquaintance that passed.
The other day was Sunday.
Stephan Arkadić went to the Great Theatre for a ballet repetition and passed Mashe Chibisova, a gentle dancer, which was reaching his protection, the promised coral, and behind the balloon, in the darkness of the theater, managed to kiss her gentle, glowing from the gift face.
In addition to the gift of the coral, he had to agree with her on a date after the ballet.
Having explained to her that he could not be at the beginning of the ballet, he promised that he would come to the last act and take her dinner.
From the theater, Stephan Arkadić went to the Hunter, he chose the fish and the spargue for lunch, and at twelve he was already at Dussos, where he had to be with three, as for his happiness, who stood in one hotel: with Levin, who stopped here and recently arrived from abroad, with his new boss, who just arrived at this highest place and revised Moscow, and with the uncle Karenin, so that he must be brought for lunch.
Stephan Arkadić liked dinner, but even more liked to give lunch, small but finite both by food, and drink, and by choice of guests.
The program of today's lunch he liked very much: there will be algae live, spargue and la piece de resistance - a wonderful but simple growth biff and coherent wines: it's from food and drink.
And of the guests will be Kiti and Levin, and, to make it unnoticable, there will be still a cushion and Scherbatsky young, and the piece of resistance from the guests - Koznyšev Sergey and Aleksei Aleksandrovich.
Sergey Ivanovich - a Moscow and philosopher, Aleksei Aleksandrovich - a Petrograd and a practitioner; to invite a well-known miracle enthusiast Peskov, a liberal, a speaker, a musician, a historian and a loving fifty-year-old boy, who will be a sauce or a garnier to Koznyshev and Karenin. He will shake them and shake them.
The money from the buyer for the forest for the second term was received and not yet withdrawn, Dolly was very gentle good last time, and the idea of this lunch in all respects rejoiced Stepan Arkadić.
He was in the most joyful position of spirit.
There were two circumstances somewhat unpleasant; but both of these circumstances drowned into the sea of kindly fun, which was anxious in the soul of Stephan Arkadić.
These two circumstances were: the first thing that he saw yesterday on the street Alexey Alexandrovich, noticed that he was dry and strict with him, and, reducing this expression of the face of Alexey Alexandrovich and that he didn’t come to them and didn’t let know about himself, with the tricks he heard about Anne and Vronsky, Stephan Arkadić realized that something was wrong between his husband and his wife.
It was one unpleasant. Another slightly unpleasant thing was that the new boss, like all the new bosses, had the reputation of a terrible man rising at six a.m., working like a horse, and demanding the same work from the subjects.
Furthermore, this new boss still had the reputation of the bear in turn and was, according to rumors, a person of a completely opposite direction to whom the former boss belonged and still belonged to Stepan Arkadić himself.
Yesterday, Stepan Arkadić was in service in the monastery, and the new boss was very kind and talked with Oblonsky as a familiar; therefore, Stepan Arkadić considered his duty to make him a visit in the suburb.
The idea that the new boss could not take him well was another unpleasant circumstance. But Stepan Arkadić instinctively felt that everything was perfectly formed.
“All men, all men, as we are sinners: what do we get angry and struggle with?” He thought he was entering the hotel.
“Hello, Vassilius,” he said, in his hat, passing through the corridor and turning to a familiar lake, “has you released the backenbards?” Lewin is the seventh number, right?
Take it please.
Do you know, Count Anichkin (this was a new boss) will accept?
– I’m listening, – laughing, Vasily replied. We have not complained for a long time.
I was yesterday, only from another entrance.
Is it the seventh?
Levin stood with a hard man in the middle of the room and measured the fresh bear skin when Stephan Arkadić entered.
— What are you killed? — screamed Stephan Arkadić. A glorious thing!
The bear?
Hello Archbishop!
He caught the man's hand and sat down on the chair, without removing his jacket and hat.
Take a picture, sit down! “Remembering his hat,” said Levin.
“No, I’m never, I’m just for a second,” Stepan Arkadić replied.
He swallowed the jacket, but then took it off and sat for an hour, talking to Levin about hunting and the most stumbling items.
Tell me, what did you do abroad? Where was? “Stepan Arkadić said when the man came out.
I was in Germany, in Prussia, in France, in England, but not in the capitals, but in the factory cities, and I saw a lot of new.
And glad that it was.
– Yes, I know your idea of the worker’s device.
In Russia, there cannot be a question of the worker.
In Russia, it is the question of the relationship of the working people to the earth; it is there, but there is the repair of the corrupt, and we have it.
Stephan Arkadić listened carefully to Levin.
Yes yes! He said. “Maybe you are right,” he said. “But I am glad that you are in a bold spirit; and after the bears you ride, and you work, and you entertain. And then Sherbatsky told me - he met you - that you are in some disappointment, you are all talking about death.
“Yes, I’m not ceasing to think about death,” said Levin. It is time to die.
And that’s all a blow.
In truth, I will tell you, I think my own and I love my work terribly, but in essence, you think about it, because all this world is our, it is a small frog that has grown up on a small planet.
And we think we may have something great—thoughts, actions!
It’s all sand.
“Yes, brother, it is old, like the world!
Old, but you know, when you understand it clearly, then somehow everything is done nothing.
When you realize that today and tomorrow you’ll die and there’s nothing left, it’s nothing!
And I think my thought is very important, and it becomes as meaningless if even to fulfill it as to overcome this bear.
This is how you spend life, enjoying the hunting, the work, so that you don’t think about death.
Stephan Arkadić smiled thin and gentle, listening to Levin.
Well of course!
Here you came to me.
Do you remember you attacked me because I’m looking for pleasure in life?
Don’t be, o moralist, so strict!
“No, it’s still a good thing in life.” – Levin was confused. Yes I don’t know.
I know that we will die soon.
Why soon?
And you know that life is less beautiful when you think of death, but it is more quiet.
On the other hand, there is more fun.
Well, however, it’s time for me,” said Stepan Arkadić, rising for the tenth time.
— No, sit down! — said Levin, holding him. When will we see you now?
I am going to eat tomorrow.
I am good!
Then I came...
Come to me for lunch today.
Your brother will be, Karenin, my cousin will be.
Is he here? - said Levin and wanted to ask about Kitty.
He heard that she was at the beginning of the winter in St. Petersburg with her sister, the wife of a diplomat, and didn’t know if she was returning or not, but thought to ask. “It will be, it will not be, it doesn’t matter.”
So will you come?
Well of course.
At 5 p.m. and in the suburbs.
And Stephan Arkadić stood up and went down to the new boss.
The instinct did not deceive Stepan Arkadić. The new terrible boss turned out to be a very overwhelming man, and Stephan Arkadić took lunch with him and sat so that only in the fourth hour he got to Alexey Alexandrovich.
Alexey Alexandrovich, returning from lunch, spent the whole morning at home.
This morning he had two affairs: first, to accept and send the delegation of foreigners who was sent to St. Petersburg and now in Moscow; second, to write the promised letter to the lawyer.
The depute, although caused by the initiative of Alexey Aleksandrovich, represented a lot of inconveniences and even dangers, and Alexey Aleksandrovich was very pleased to hold it in Moscow.
Members of this parliament had no idea of their role and duties.
They were naively convinced that their task was to expose their needs and the current situation of things, asking for the help of the government, and decidedly did not understand that some of their statements and demands supported the hostile party and therefore lost everything.
Alexey Aleksandrovich travelled with them for a long time, wrote to them a program from which they shouldn’t leave, and, leaving them, wrote letters to St. Petersburg to send the parliament.
The main assistant in this case should be Count Lydia Ivanovna.
She was a specialist in the affairs of the deputies, and no one like her was able to must and give the right direction to the deputies.
After completing this, Alexey Alexandrovich wrote a letter to the lawyer.
He without any hesitation gave him permission to act on his well-being. In the letter he placed three notes of Vronsky to Anna, which were found in the taken portfolio.
Since Alexey Alexandrovich left the house with the intention not to return to the family, and since he was with a lawyer and told at least one person about his intention, since especially since he translated this matter of life into a paper matter, he became more and more accustomed to his intention and saw now clearly the possibility of its realization.
He sealed the cover to the lawyer when he heard the loud voices of Stephan Arkadić.
Stephan Arkadić disputed with his servant Alexey Alexandrovich and insisted that he would be.
"In any case, - thought Alexey Alexandrovich, - the better: I will now announce my position towards his sister and explain why I can't eat with him."
Please to! He spoke loudly, gathering the papers and placing them in the buyer.
“But here you see that you’re swallowing, and he’s home!” answered the voice of Stephan Arkadić with a laqueum, not leaving him, and on the way, taking the jacket, Oblonsky entered the room. I am so glad I got you!
So I hope... – joyfully started Stephan Arkadic.
“I can’t be, it’s cold, it’s standing and it’s not the guest,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said.
Alexey Alexandrovich thought immediately to get into the cold relations in which he had to be with the brother of his wife, against whom he began the divorce; but he did not count on that sea of kindness that flowed from the shores into the soul of Stephan Arkadić.
Stephan Arkadić opened widely his bright, clear eyes.
Why can you not?
What do you want to say? He spoke in French with confusion. No, it is promised.
We all count on you.
“I want to say that I can’t be with you because the relationships that have been between us have to be over.
That is how?
Why? - with a smile spoke Stepan Arkadic.
“Because I start the divorce with your sister, my wife.
I had to...
But Alexei Aleksandrovich has not yet been able to finish his speech, as Stephan Arkadić has already acted completely wrong as he expected.
Stephan Arkadic wrapped and sat in the chair.
- No, Alexey Alexandrovich, what you are saying! - Oblonsky screamed, and suffering was expressed on his face.
It is so.
Sorry, I can’t and cannot believe it.
Alexey Alexandrovich sat, feeling that his words did not have the action he expected, and that he needed to be explained, and that whatever his explanations were, his attitude to the shurin will remain the same.
“Yes, I’m put into a severe need to demand divorce,” he said.
I will say one thing, Alexey Alexandrovich.
I know you for a good, fair man, I know Anna, I’m sorry, I can’t change my opinion about her, I’m a beautiful, good woman, and so, I’m sorry, I can’t believe it.
There is a misunderstanding, he said.
If it was just a misunderstanding...
“Let me, I understand,” Stepan Arkadić passed. But, of course, one thing: don’t have to rush. No need, no need to rush!
“I didn’t rush,” said Alexey Alexandrovich coldly, “but it’s not possible to consult with anyone in this matter.
I decided firmly.
– It’s terrible! – said Stepan Arkadic, hardly breathing. I would do one thing, Alexey Alexandrovich.
I ask you to do it! he said. The case has not yet begun, as I realized.
Before you start a business, see my wife and talk to her.
She loves Anna as a sister, loves you, and she is a wonderful woman.
Thank God, talk to her.
Make me this friendship, I pray to you!
Alexey Aleksandrovich thought, and Stephan Arkadić attended him, without interrupting his silence.
Are you going to go to her?
Yes I don’t know.
That’s why I wasn’t with you. I think our relationships need to change.
Why then?
I don’t see that.
Let me think that, in addition to our relative relationships, you have to me, although in part, those friendly feelings that I have always had to you... And true respect,” said Stepan Arkadić, pressing his hand. If even your worst assumptions were fair, I will not take and will never take on myself to judge one or the other side and I will not see the reasons why our relationships should change.
But now, do this, go to your wife.
“Well, we’re looking at it differently,” Alexey Alexandrovich said coldly. But let’s not talk about it.
No, why don’t you come?
Even lunch today? The woman is waiting for you.
Please come.
And most importantly, talk to her.
She is a wonderful woman.
I pray to you on my knees!
“If you want that, I’m going to come,” said Alexey Aleksandrovich. And, wanting to change the conversation, he asked about what interested their common, about the new boss Stepan Arkadić, not yet an old man, who suddenly received such a high appointment.
Aleksei Aleksandrovich did not love the Count Anichkin before and always divided with him in opinions, but now he could not abstain from the hatred of the person who suffered a defeat at the service to the person who received an elevation.
Have you seen him? - said Alexey Aleksandrovich with a poison smile,
He was present with us yesterday.
He seems to know the matter well and very active.
Yes, but what is his activity aimed at? - said Alexey Alexandrovich. To do what is done, or to do what is done?
The misfortune of our state is the paper administration, which he is a decent representative.
Right, I don’t know what can be condemned. I don’t know his direction, but one thing – he’s a great little one – answered Stepan Arkadić. I was with him now, and, right, a great little boy.
We lunch, and I taught him to do, you know, it’s a drink, wine with orange.
It is very cool. And it is surprising that he didn’t know that.
He liked it very much.
No, he is a glorious little boy.
Stephan Arkadic looked at the clock.
Oh my grandfather, it's the fifth, and I'm still in the long run!
Please come to dinner.
You can’t imagine how you’re sad about me and my wife.
Alexey Aleksandrovich spent the shurina not as he met him.
“I promised and I’ll come,” he replied tiredly.
“Think that I appreciate, and I hope you don’t regret,” Stepan Arkadić answered with a smile.
And on the way, wearing the jacket, he put his hand on the head of the laquea, laughed and went out.
- At five a.m., and in the shuttle, please! - he screamed again, returning to the door.
It was already six a.m. and some guests arrived when the owner himself arrived.
He entered together with Sergey Ivanovich Koznyshev and Peskov, who at the same time met at the entrance.
These were the two main representatives of the Moscow intelligence, as Oblonsky called them.
Both were respected by character and mind.
They respected each other, but in almost everything they were completely and hopelessly disagreed with each other — not because they belonged to the opposite directions, but just because they were one camp (the enemies mixed them into one), but in that camp they had each their own shade.
And since there is nothing more incapable of agreement than diversity in semiconductions, they have not only never agreed in opinions, but have been accustomed for a long time, not angry, just laughing to the irreparable misconduct of each other.
They entered the door and talked about the weather when Stephan Arkadić reached them.
In the living room were already the prince Alexander Dmitriyevich, the sister of Oblonsky, the young Щerbatsky, Turovtsin, Kiti and Karenin.
Stephan Arkadić immediately saw that in the living room without him the thing was bad.
Daria Alexandrovna, in her parade gray silk dress, obviously concerned with the children who have to eat in childhood alone, and with the fact that her husband is not yet, was unable to blend all this society well without him.
Everyone sat as full in the guests (as the old prince expressed), obviously in confusion, why they came here, spotted words so that they didn’t silence.
The gentle Turovtsin, obviously, felt not in his sphere, and the smile of the thick lips with which he met Stepan Arkadić, as words, said: "Well, brother, you planted me with the smart!
Here's a drink and in the Chateau de fleurs - that's my part."
The old prince sat silently, looking side by side with his bright eyes on Karenina, and Stephan Arkadić realized that he had already invented some vocabulary to print this state man, on whom, like a stallade, the guests are called.
Kitty looked at the door, gathering forces in order not to get red at the entrance of Constantine Levin.
The young Sherbatsky, with whom Karenina was not acquainted, tried to show that he was not ashamed.
Karenin himself, according to the St. Petersburg habit, was on lunch with the ladies in a frake and a white wardrobe, and Stephan Arkadić in his face realized that he came just to fulfill this word, and, being present in this society, committed a heavy duty.
He was the main guilty of the cold, which freezed all the guests before the arrival of Stepan Arkadić.
By entering the living room, Stepan Arkadić apologized, explained that he was arrested by those princes, who was the everlasting captain of all his delays and discontractions, and in one minute re-knowed all of them and, with Alexey Alexandrovich and Sergey Koznyshev, submitted them the topic of the circumcision of Poland, for which they immediately seized together with Peskov.
When he fell on the shoulder of Turovtsin, he cried something funny to him and placed him to his wife and to the prince.
Then Kitty said that she was very good today, and introduced Shterbatsky to Karenin.
In one minute he so mixed all this public test that the living room became somewhere, and the voices sounded vibrantly.
There was no Constantine Levin.
But it was to the best, because, coming out to the dining room, Stephan Arkadić, to his horror, saw that the portwein and heres were taken from Depre, not from Levi, and he, ordering to send the chicken as soon as possible to Levi, went back to the living room.
In the restaurant he met Constantine Levin.
I’m not late?
- Can you not get late? - he took him under his hand, said Stepan Arkadic.
Do you have a lot of people?
Who to Who? - Unwillingly red, asked Levin, swallowing the snow with a hat.
All of yours.
Kitty is here.
Let’s go, I’ll meet you with Karenina.
Stephan Arkadić, despite his liberalism, knew that the acquaintance with Karenin could not be unlikely, and that’s why he welcomed the best friends.
But at that moment Constantine Levin was unable to feel all the pleasure of this dating.
He did not see Kitty after the memorable evening on which he met Vronsky, unless counting that moment when he saw her on the big road.
He knew in the depth of his heart that he would see her here today. But he,ining freedom of thought in himself, tried to make sure he did not know that.
Now, when he heard that she was here, he suddenly felt such joy and together such fear that he took his breath, and he couldn’t say what he wanted to say.
“What, what is she?
What was it before, or what was it in the car?
What if Daria Alexandrovna said the truth?
Why is it not true?” He thought.
“Oh, please meet me with Karenina,” he hardly spoke, and with a desperate and decisive step entered the living room and saw her.
She was neither the way she was before nor the way she was in the car; she was completely different.
She was scared, slave, trusted and therefore even more beautiful.
She saw him at the same moment he entered the room.
She was glad and troubled by her joy to the extent that it was a minute when he approached the master and looked at her again, that both her, and him, and Dolly, who saw everything, seemed that she would not stand and cry.
She reddened, bleached, again reddened and melted, slightly irritating her lips, waiting for him.
He approached her, worshipped and silently stretched his hand.
If it were not a slight drilling of the lips and the moisture that covered the eyes and added the glow to them, her smile was almost quiet when she said:
- How long we didn't see! - and she with desperate determination grew his cold hand to his hand.
“You didn’t see me, but I saw you,” said Levin, glowing with a smile of happiness. I saw you when you were on the railway to Ergushovo.
when? She asked with surprise.
“You’ve been to Ergushovo,” said Levin, feeling he’s cracked by the pleasure that swallowed his soul.
And how I dare to connect the thought of something not innocent with this touching being!
And yes, it seems true what Daria Alexandrovna said,” he thought.
Stephan Arkadić took him in his hand and brought him to Karenin.
Let me meet you. He called their names.
“It’s very pleasant to meet again,” Alexey Alexandrovich coldly said, pushing his hand to Levin.
Are you familiar? I was surprised to ask Stepan Arkadic.
“We spent three hours in the wagon together,” Levin said with a smile, “but they came out, as if they were out of the mask, intrigued, at least I.
We ask for mercy,” said Stepan Arkadić, indicating the direction to the dining room.
The men went out to the dining room and came to the table with a snack packed with six varieties of vodka and so many varieties of cheese with silver spots and without spots, icras, seals, conservances of different varieties and plates with slurry of French bread.
The men stood around fragile waters and snacks, and the conversation about Poland's turmoil between Sergey Ivanic Koznyshev, Karenin and Peskov stopped waiting for lunch.
Sergey Ivanovich, who was able, like no one, for the end of the most trapped and serious dispute to suddenly sweep attic salt and thus change the mood of the interlocutors, did this and now.
Alexey Aleksandrovich demonstrated that the destruction of Poland can only be carried out due to the highest principles that must be introduced by the Russian administration.
Peskov insisted that one people would assimilate themselves to another only when they were more populated.
Koznyšev acknowledged both, but with limitations.
When they went out of the hall to conclude a conversation, Koznyšev said, smiling:
Therefore, there is one way to overthrow foreigners: to remove as many children as possible.
My brother and I do the worst. And you, gentlemen married people, especially you, Stepan Arkadić, act quite patriotically; how many do you have? He turned, gently smiling to the master and put him a little bit.
Everyone laughed, and especially Stefan Arkadic was fun.
- Yes, this is the best remedy! - he said, swallowing the cheese and swallowing some special kind of vodka into the grounded rubber.
The conversation really ended with a joke.
This cheese is stupid. Tell me? The owner said. Did you go to gym again? He turned to Levin, with his left hand touching his muscle, Levin smiled, stretched his hand, and under the fingers of Stephan Arkadić, like a round cheese, a steel bowl rose from under the thin suit.
This is Bixby!
and Samson!
“I think we need to have greater strength for the hunting of the bears,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, who had the darkest concepts of the hunting, worshipping cheese and breaking thin, like a pudding, a soft bread.
Levin smiled.
No one.
On the contrary, the child can kill the bear, he said, leaving with a light gift in front of the ladies who approached the hostess to the snack table.
You killed the bear, you told me. - said Kitty, stupidly trying to catch the whale unobedient, scattering the fungi and stumbling the circles through which her hand bleed. Do you have a bear? She added, freely turning her beautiful head to him and smiling.
Nothing seemed unusual in what she said, but what unexpressionable meaning for her words was in every sound, in every movement of her lips, eyes, hands when she said it!
There was the prayer for forgiveness, and the trust in him, and the grace, the gentle, the slave grace, and the promise, and the hope, and the love to him, which he could not believe, and which breathed his happiness.
- No, we went to the Tversky Governorate.
“When I returned from there, I met in the wagon with your bofre or your bofre’s uncle,” he said with a smile. It was a funny meeting.
And he joyfully and funly told him how he, not sleeping the whole night, in the middle of the hole broke into the department of Alexey Alexandrovich.
“The conductor, contrary to the proverbs, wanted to carry me out on the dress; but here I began to speak high, and... you too,” he said, forgetting his name and addressing Karenina, “for the first half, they also wanted to expel me, but then they stood, for which I am very grateful.
- In general, very uncertain rights of passengers to choose a place, - said Alexey Aleksandrovich, scratching the ends of his fingers.
“I saw that you were unresolved to me,” said Levin, with a kind smile, “but I was embarrassed to start a smart conversation to smooth my half-deep.
Sergey Ivanovich, continuing the conversation with the gentleman and listening to his brother with one ear, sinked on him. “What is it with him now?
This is the winner,” he thought.
He did not know that Levin felt that his wings had grown up.
Levin knew that she heard his words and that she was pleased to hear him. It only took him one thing.
Not in one of these rooms, but in the whole world for him existed only he who gained great importance and importance for himself, and she.
He felt at the height from which the head was rotating, and there somewhere down, far, were all these good, glorious Karenines, the Oblon and the whole world.
Completely invisible, without looking at them, and as if there was no more place to plant, Stephan Arkadić planted Levina and Kitty next.
“Well, you’re sitting here,” he said to Levine.
The lunch was as good as the dish before which the hunter Stepan Arkadić was.
The Marie-Louis soup was great; the little cakes in the mouth were useless.
Two Lakes and Matthew, in white clothes, did their business with cooking and wine invisibly, quietly and slowly.
The lunch went away from the material side; however, it went away from the immaterial side.
The conversation, the general, the private, did not hesitate and at the end of the lunch so revived that the men stood out of the table, not ceasing to speak, and even Alexey Alexandrovich revived.
Pescov loved to argue to the end and was not satisfied with the words of Sergey Ivanovich, especially that he felt the injustice of his opinion.
“I’ve never understood,” he said after the soup, addressing Alexey Alexandrovich, “one density of the population, but in connection with the foundations, not with the principles.
“I think,” Alexey Aleksandrovich answered untouchably, “that this is the same thing.
In my opinion, to act on another people can only the one who has the highest development that...
“But that’s the question, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on, that’s what’s going on.”
English, French, German – who stands at the highest level of development?
Who will nationalize each other?
We see that Rein was offensive, and the Germans are not below! — he cried. There is another law!
“I think the influence is always on the side of true education,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, slightly lifting the brick.
But what do we believe in the signs of true education? He said the sand.
“I think these signs are known,” said Alexey Aleksandrovich.
Are they fully known? - With a thin smile Sergey Ivanovich interfered. Now it is acknowledged that the present education can only be purely classical; but we see severe disputes between the two sides, and we cannot deny that even the opposite camp had no strong arguments in its favour.
You are a classic, Sergey Ivanovich.
Tell the red? - said Stephan Arkadić.
“I don’t express my opinion about that and the other education, with a smile of humiliation, as to a child,” Sergey Ivanovich said, putting his glass, “I just say that both sides have strong arguments,” he continued, addressing Alexey Alexandrovich. I am a classical in education, but in this dispute I personally cannot find my place.
I don’t see clear arguments why classical sciences are given advantage over real sciences.
“Natural people have the same pedagogical and developmental influence,” Peskov said. Take one astronomy, take a botanic, a zoology with its system of common laws.
“I can’t fully agree with this,” Alexey Aleksandrovich replied. It seems to me that it cannot be ignored that the process of learning the forms of languages is beneficial to spiritual development.
In addition, it cannot be denied that the influence of classical writers is above all moral, while unfortunately, the teaching of natural sciences is associated with the harmful and false doctrines that make up the ulcers of our time.
Sergey Ivanovich wanted to say something, but Pescov overturned him with his thick bas.
He began to warmly prove the injustice of this opinion.
Sergey Ivanovich calmly waited for the words, obviously with a ready victorious objection.
"But," said Sergey Ivanovich, smiling thinly and addressing Karenin, "there cannot be disagreeed that it is difficult to weigh all the advantages and disadvantages of those and other sciences and that the question of what preference would not be resolved so quickly and ultimately, if on the side of classical education there were no advantages that you have now expressed: moral - disons le mot - anti-Nigalistic influence.
Without a doubt.
“If there were no advantages of anti-Nihilist influence on the side of classical sciences, we would think more, we would emphasize the arguments of both sides,” Sergey Ivanovich said with a thin smile, “we would give space to that and the other direction.
But now we know that in these pills of classical education lies the healing force of anti-nigalism, and we dare to offer them to our patients...
What if there is no healing power? - he closed, throwing out attic salt.
At the pills of Sergey Ivanovich, everyone laughed, and especially loud and fun Turovtsin, who was waiting, finally, for the funny he was just waiting for, listening to the conversation.
Stephan Arkadic did not mistake, inviting Peskov.
With Pescov's conversation, the intelligent could not silence for a minute.
Just after Sergey Ivanovich concluded the conversation with his joke, Peskov immediately raised a new.
“You can’t even agree with that,” he said, “that the government should have that goal.
The government is obviously guided by general considerations, remaining indifferent to the influences that the measures taken may have.
For example, the issue of women’s education should be considered malicious, but the government opens women’s courses and universities.
And the conversation immediately switched to a new topic of women's education.
Alexey Aleksandrovich expressed the idea that women’s education is usually mixed with the question of women’s freedom and only therefore it can be considered harmful.
“I, on the contrary, believe that these two issues are inseparably connected,” Pescov said, “it’s a false circle.
Women are deprived of rights due to lack of education, and lack of education is due to the lack of rights.
We must not forget that the employment of women is so large and old that we often don’t want to understand the pudding that separates them from us,” he said.
“You said right,” said Sergey Ivanovich, waiting for the silence of Peskov, the right to occupy the positions of the jury, the voice, the chairman of the governments, the right of the servant, the member of the parliament.
Without a doubt.
But if women, as a rare exception, can take these places, then I think you’ve misused the expression “right”.
It would be better to say: duty.
Everyone agrees that, by performing any position as a sworn, voice, telegraph official, we feel that we do our duty.
And therefore it is better to say that women are looking for duties, and it is completely legal.
And you can only sympathize with their desire to help the general male work.
“It’s quite right,” Alexey Aleksandrovich confirmed. The question, I think, is only whether they are able to do these duties.
“They will probably be very capable,” Stepan Arkadić said, “when education will be spread among them.
We see it...
What about the proverb? - said the prince, long listening to the conversation and glowing with his small laughing eyes, - with the daughters you can: the hair is long.
The same thing they thought about the black people before they were released. Pescov said angry.
“I find it only strange that women are looking for new duties,” Sergey Ivanovich said, “but we, unfortunately, see that men usually avoid them.
“The duties are associated with the rights; power, money, honour: women are looking for them,” Pescov said.
“It doesn’t matter if I would seek the right to be a nurse and offend that women are paid and I don’t want,” the old prince said.
Turovtsin laughed loudly, and Sergey Ivanovich regretted that he didn’t say that.
Even Alexey Alexandrovich smiled.
“Yes, but a man cannot feed,” Pescov said, “and a woman...
“No, the English man has fed his child on the ship,” said the old prince, allowing himself this freedom of conversation with his daughters.
“How many such Englishmen, so many women will be officials,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
What to do with a girl who has no family? - Stephan Arkadić entered, reminding of Chibisova, which he had all the time in mind, sympathizing with Peskov and supporting him.
“If you understand the story of this girl well, you’ll find that this girl has left her family, or her, or her sister, where she could have a female affair – suddenly entering the conversation,” Daria Alexandrovna said with irritation, probably guessing what girl Stephan Arkadić meant.
But we stand for the principle, for the ideal! - The sound bass opposed the Sands. A woman wants to have the right to be independent, educated.
She is narrowed, suppressed by the consciousness of the impossibility of this.
“And I’m angry and suppressed by the fact that I’m not taken to feed into the educational house,” again said the old prince, to the great joy of Turovtsin, with the laughter of the thick end of the spark in the sauce.
Everyone participated in the general conversation, except Kitty and Levin.
At first, when it was about the influence that one people had on the other, Levin was deliberately thinking about what he had to say about this subject; but these thoughts were before very important to him, as if they were in a dream in his head and had no least interest to him now.
He even wondered why they are so trying to say that no one needs it.
For China exactly the same, it seemed to be interesting what they said about women’s rights and education.
How many times she thought about it; remembering her foreign friend Varenka, her severe dependence, how many times she thought about herself that she would be with her if she didn’t get married, and how many times she spoke about it with her sister!
But now it didn’t interest her much.
They had their conversation with Levin, and not a conversation, but some mysterious communication that increasingly connected them and produced in both a sense of joy of fear of the unknown in which they entered.
First, Levin, asked Kitty about how he could see her last year in the car, told her how he walked off the big road and met her.
It was early in the morning.
You just woke up.
Your mother slept in her corner.
It was a strange morning.
I go and think: who is the fourth in the car? The glorious fourth with the butterflies, and for a moment you blinked, and I see in the window — you sit here so and with both hands hold the bonds of the butterflies and something terribly thought, — he said, smiling. I would like to know what you thought about then.
About the important?
“Is it not broken?” She thought; but when she saw the exciting smile that these details caused in her memory, she felt that, on the contrary, the impression she made was very good.
She was red and laughed gladly. Right, I don’t remember.
- How good Turovtsin laughs! - said Levin, loving his wet eyes and his trembling body.
Do you know him long ago? He asked Kitty.
Who doesn’t know him!
And I see you think he’s a bad man?
Not bad, but low.
And it is false!
Soon, don’t think so anymore! Kitty said. I also had a very low opinion about him, but he is an overwhelming and surprisingly good man.
His heart is gold.
How did you know his heart? We are great friends with him.
I know him very well.
Last winter, shortly after... when you were with us,” she said with a guilty and confident smile, “Dolly’s children were all in the scarlatine, and he went to her somehow.
And you can imagine, she spoke, he was so sorry for her that he stayed and began to help her walk for the children.
Yes, and they lived three weeks in their house and as a grandmother walked for the children.
“I’m telling Constantin Dmitry about Turovcin in the scarlatin,” she said, turning to her sister.
“Yes, it’s amazing, it’s beautiful!” said Dolly, looking at Turovtsin, who felt that they were talking about him, and smiling him.
Levin again looked at Turovtsin and was surprised how he did not understand all the beauty of this man before.
I’m guilty, I’m guilty, and I’m never going to think bad about people anymore! he said gladly, honestly saying what he now feels.
In the hidden talk about women’s rights, women’s questions about the inequality of rights in marriage were sharp.
Pescov during lunch several times attacked these questions, but Sergey Ivanovich and Stepan Arkadić carefully rejected him.
When they stood up from the table and the ladies went out, Pescov, not following them, addressed Alexey Alexandrovich and began to explain the main cause of inequality.
The inequality of the spouses, according to him, consists in the fact that the unfaithfulness of the wife and the unfaithfulness of the husband are punished unfairly by law and public opinion.
Stephan Arkadić quickly approached Alexey Alexandrovich, offering him to smoke.
“No, I’m not smoking,” Alexey Aleksandrovich calmly answered and, how intentionally he wanted to show that he was not afraid of this conversation, addressed with a cold smile to Peskov.
“I think that the foundation of this view lies in the very essence of things,” he said and wanted to go to the living room; but here Turovtsin suddenly spoke, addressing Alexey Alexandrovich.
Have you heard of the Friday? - said Turovtsin, lived with the drinked champagne and long awaited the chance to break his harsh silence. - Vasya Pryačnikov, - he said with his good smile of wet and ruby lips, addressing mainly to the main guest, Alexey Aleksandrovich, - I was told today that he walked on a duel in Tvery with Quitsky and killed him.
As always it seems that you shy, both intentionally, the sick place, so and now Stepan Arkadić felt that on the trouble today every minute the conversation attacked the sick place Alexey Alexandrovich.
He wanted to take the uncle again, but Alexey Alexandrovich himself with curiosity asked:
Why did the frogs go?
for my wife.
The youth done!
He called and killed.
- A! - said Alexey Alexandrovich indifferently and, lifting the bridges, went to the living room.
“How glad I’m that you’ve come,” Dolly told him with a scared smile, meeting him in the passing room, “I have to talk to you.
Sitting here.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, with the same expression of indifference that he was given by the lifted arms, sat under the Darya of Aleksandrovna and smiled.
- Moreover, - said he, - that I wanted to apologize to you and immediately refuse.
I have to go tomorrow.
Darya Alexandrovna was firmly confident in Anna's innocence and felt that she bleed and her lips dropped from anger on this cold, senseless man so quietly intending to destroy her innocent friend.
“Alexey Alexandrovich,” she said, with desperate determination looking at him in the eyes. I asked you about Anna, you didn’t answer me.
What is she?
- She seems healthy, Darya Alexandrovna, - without looking at her, Alexey Alexandrovich replied.
Alexey Alexandrovich, forgive me, I have no right... but I, as a sister, love and respect Anna; I ask you, please tell me, what is between you? What do you accuse her?
Alexey Aleksandrovich murdered and, almost closing his eyes, dropped his head.
“I think my husband has told you the reasons why I think it is necessary to change my previous relationship with Anna Arkadievna,” he said, not looking at her in the eyes, but unhappyly looking at the sherbatsky who passed through the living room.
- I don't believe, I don't believe, I can't believe it! - Dolly spotted her hand in front of her, with an energetic gesture.
She quickly stood up and placed her hand on Alexey Alexandrovich's arms. We are interfered here. Come here please.
The bullying of Dolly acted on Alexey Alexandrovich.
He stood up and followed her in a classroom.
They sat behind the table, covered with a cutting penny knife.
- I don't believe it, I don't believe it! - said Dolly, trying to catch him away from her look.
“You can’t believe in the facts, Darya Alexandrovna,” he said, striking the word to the facts.
But what did she do? Daria Alexandrovna spoke. What exactly did she do?
She has neglected her duties and changed her husband.
That’s what she did, he said.
No, no, it cannot be!
No, because of God, you’ve made a mistake! — said Dolly, touching her hands to the whiskey and closing her eyes.
Alexey Alexandrovich coldly smiled with one lips, wanting to show her and herself the firmness of his belief; but this hot defense, though not hesitating him, raised his wound.
He spoke with great revival.
It’s hard to make a mistake when the wife declares her husband. He announces that eight years of life and his son — that it’s all a mistake and that she wants to live first — he said angry, swallowing the nose.
“Anna and the evil – I can’t connect, I can’t believe it.
-Daria Alexandrovna! - he said, now looking straight into the good excited face of Dolly and feeling that his tongue is unwillingly spreading. I would be expensive to make doubts still possible.
When I doubted, it was hard for me, but easier than now.
When I doubted, there was hope; but now there is no hope, and I still doubt everything.
I doubt so much in everything that I hate my son and sometimes I don’t believe it’s my son.
I am very unhappy.
He didn’t have to say that.
Darya Alexandrovna understood this as soon as he looked at her in the face; and she became sad of him, and the faith in the innocence of her friend fell in her.
Ah Ah! It is terrible, terrible!
But is it true that you decided to divorce?
I decided to take the last step.
I have nothing to do anymore.
“Nothing to do, nothing to do,” she spoke with tears in her eyes. No, there is nothing to do! She said.
“It is terrible in this kind of sadness that it is not possible, as in any other way – in loss, in death, to carry the cross, but here it is necessary to act,” he said, as if he was guessing her thought. You have to get out of the humiliating position in which you are placed: you cannot live in three.
“I understand, I understand it very much,” Dolly said and lowered her head.
She was silent, thinking about herself, about her family evil, and suddenly, with an energetic gesture, she raised her head and placed her hands with a praising gesture. But stand up!
You are a Christian.
Think about her!
What will happen if you leave her?
“I thought, Darya Alexandrovna, and I thought a lot,” said Alexey Alexandrovich.
His face was red with spots, and the mute eyes looked straight on her.
Daria Alexandrovna has already regretted him with all her soul. I did the same after my own shame was declared to me; I left everything as old.
I gave the opportunity to fix it, I tried to save it.
And what?
She did not meet the easiest requirement — to observe the merits, — he said, burning up. You can save a person who does not want to die; but if the whole nature is so broken, so broken, that the very death seems to her a salvation, what do you do?
All but not divorce. Daria Alexandrovna answered.
But what all?
No, it is terrible.
She will be a woman, she will die.
What can I do? He lifted his shoulders and braces, said Alexey Alexandrovich.
The memory of his wife’s last wrongdoing so annoyed him that he became cold again as at the beginning of the conversation. “I’m very grateful for your participation, but it’s time for me,” he said up.
No, have to stand!
You should not destroy her.
Stay there, I will tell you about myself.
I married, and my husband deceived me; in anger, jealousy I wanted to give up everything, I wanted myself.
But I remembered; and who? Anna saved me.
And here I live.
Children grow up, the husband returns to the family and feels his fault, becomes cleaner, better, and I live...
I have forgiven, and you have to forgive!
Alexey Aleksandrovich listened, but her words no longer acted on him.
In his soul again raised all the anger of the day when he decided to divorce.
He repented and spoke with a vibrant, loud voice:
I can’t forgive, and I don’t want, and I consider it unjust.
I did everything for this woman, and she drowned everything into the dirt that is her own.
I am not a evil sheep, I have never hated anyone, but I hate her with all the strengths of her soul and I can’t even forgive her because I hate too much for all the evil she has done to me! He spoke with tears of evil in his voice.
“Love those who hate you,” Daria Alexandrovna shouted shamefully.
Alexey Alexandrovich smiled with negligence.
He knew this for a long time, but it could not apply to his case.
Love those you hate, but you cannot love those you hate.
Sorry that I annoyed you.
Every one has its sorrow enough. And, having mastered himself, Alexey Alexandrovich calmly forgiven and left.
When he stood out of the table, Levine wanted to go for Kitty to the living room; but he feared if it would not be unpleasant to her because of the too great obviousness of his care for her.
He remained in the circle of men, taking part in the general conversation, and without looking at Kitty, he felt her movements, her views and the place she was in the living room.
He has now and without the least effort fulfilled the promise he has given her, to always think well about all people and always love all.
The conversation was about the community, in which Peskov saw some special beginning, which he called a good beginning.
Levin did not agree with Pescov or with his brother, who somehow recognized and not recognized the importance of the Russian community.
But he spoke with them, trying only to reconcile them and mitigate their objections.
He was not much interested in what he himself spoke, even less what they spoke, and only wanted one – that they and everyone would be good and pleasant.
He knew that one thing was important.
And that one was first there, in the living room, and then began to move and stopped at the door.
He, without turning, felt a striking look and a smile on himself and couldn’t stop turning.
She stood at the door with Scherbatsky and looked at him.
“I thought you’re going to the Fortpians,” he said, “I’m going to her. That’s what I miss in the village: music.
“No, we went only then to call you, and I thank you,” she said as a gift, rewarding him with a smile, “that you came.
What is hunting to argue?
One will never convince another.
“Yes, it’s true,” said Levin, “the majority of it happens that you argue hotly only because you can’t understand what the enemy wants to prove.
Levin often noticed in disputes between the most intelligent people that after huge efforts, a huge number of logical subtles and controversial words came, finally, to the consciousness that what they have long been struggling to prove to each other, long ago, since the beginning of the dispute, was known to them, but that they love differently and therefore don’t want to name what they love so that they don’t be controversial.
He often experienced that sometimes during a dispute you will understand what the opponent loves, and suddenly you will love the same thing and you will immediately agree, and then all the arguments fall as unnecessary; and sometimes he experienced the opposite: you will finally say what you love yourself and for what you invent arguments, and if it happens that you will say it well and honestly, then suddenly the opponent will agree and cease to dispute.
That is what he wanted to say.
She scratched her forehead trying to understand.
But as soon as he began to explain, she already understood.
I understand: you need to know why he disputes, what he loves, then you can...
She perfectly imagined and expressed his badly expressed thought.
Levin smiled gladly: so he was surprised by this transition from the confused multi-speaking dispute with Peskov and his brother to this laconic and clear, almost no word, message of the most complex thoughts.
Щербацкий departed from them, and Kiti, coming to the placed cardboard table, sat and, taking the small in his hands, began to draw them on a new green jacket the rotating circles.
They resumed the conversation after lunch: about women’s freedom and occupations.
Levin agreed with the opinion of Darya Alexandrovna that a girl who is not married will find herself a female affair in the family.
He confirmed this by the fact that no family can do it without a assistant, that in every poor and wealthy family there are and must be grandchildren, tenants or relatives.
- No, - said Kitty red, but the more courageously looking at him with her true eyes, - the girl can be so set that she can't enter the family without humiliation, but she's herself.
He understood it with a clue.
Oh Oh Oh! Yes! He said, yes, yes, you are right, you are right.
And he understood everything that Pescov demonstrated after lunch about women’s freedom, only by seeing in Kitty’s heart the fear of virginity and humiliation, and, in her love, he felt that fear and humiliation and immediately rejected his arguments.
There was silence.
She scratched everything on the table.
Her eyes glowed with a quiet glow.
Submitting to her mood, he felt in all his essence the increasing tension of happiness. The
Ah Ah! I broke out the whole table! — she said and, putting a little bit, made the move as if she wanted to get up.
“How can I stay alone without her?” He thought with fear and took a little bit. “Stay,” he said, sitting at the table. I have long wanted to ask you one thing.
He looked at her straight in loving, though scared eyes.
Please ask me.
He said and wrote the first letters: k, v, m, o, e, n, m, b, z, l, e, n, i, t?
These letters meant, ‘When you answered me, ‘This can’t be, did it mean that never, or then?’
There was no probability that she could understand this complex phrase; but he looked at it in such a way that his life depends on whether she would understand those words.
She looked at him seriously, then spelled a dark forehead on her hand and began to read.
Sometimes she looked at him, asking him with a look, “Is this what I think?”
“I understood,” she said, red.
What is this word? He said, indicating n which the word never meant.
“This word means never,” she said, “but it’s not true!
He quickly dropped the writing, gave her a mail and stood up.
She wrote: t, I, n, m, and, o.
Dolly was very comforted by the anger caused by her conversation with Alexey Alexandrovich, when she saw these two figures: Kitty with a little in her hands and with a smile and happy, looking up on Levin, and his beautiful beautiful figure, swallowed over the table, with hot eyes struck on the table and on her.
He suddenly blinked: he understood.
That means, “At that time I couldn’t answer otherwise.”
He looked at her questionfully, stupidly.
Only then?
“Yes,” her smile replied.
and t...
And now? He asked him.
So that’s how you read.
I will say what I wish. I would very much wish! She wrote the initial letters: h, v, m, z, i, p, h, b.
It meant, “so that you can forget and forgive what has happened.”
He captured the mole with tensioned, drilling fingers and, breaking it, wrote the initial letters of the following: "I have nothing to forget and forgive, I have not ceased to love you."
She looked at him with a stopped smile.
“I understood,” she said with a scream.
He sat down and wrote a long phrase.
She understood everything and, without asking him, was it? She took the mail and immediately answered.
He could not understand what she wrote for a long time, and often looked in her eyes.
He found a darkness of happiness.
He could not undertake the words she understood; but in her beautiful, glorious eyes he understood everything he needed to know.
He wrote three letters.
But he did not finish writing yet, and she was already reading behind his hand, and she finished and wrote the answer: Yes.
Do you play at the secretary? - said the old prince, I am going. Let’s go if you want to sing to the theater.
Levin stood up and led Kitty to the door.
In their conversation everything was said; it was said that she loves him, and that she will tell her father and mother that tomorrow he will come to it.
When Kitty left and Levin stayed alone, he felt such anxiety without her and such an impatible desire to live faster, faster until tomorrow morning, when he will see her again and unite her forever, that he was afraid, like death, of the fourteen hours he had to spend without her.
He had to be and talk to someone in order not to stay alone in order to cheat time.
Stephan Arkadić would be his most pleasant interlocutor, but he was, as he said, on the evening, in fact, on the ballet.
Levin only managed to tell him that he was happy and that he loved him and will never, never forget what he did for him.
Stephan Apkadić's look and smile showed Levin that he understood how this feeling should be.
Is it not time to die? - said Stephan Arkadić, with mercy pushed the hand of Levin.
None is! He said Levin.
Darya Alexandrovna, saying goodbye to him, also as if she greeted him, said: "How I'm glad that you met Kitty again, you have to appreciate the old friendship.
But Levin was unpleasant with these words of Darya Aleandrovna.
She couldn’t understand how high and unavailable it was to her, and she shouldn’t have to mention it.
Levin said forgiveness to them, but in order not to stay alone, he applied to his bpat.
Where are you going?
I am in the meeting.
Well, and I am with you.
Is it possible?
Why then? Let’s go, smile, said Sergey Ivanovich. What about you today?
with me?
Happiness with me! - said Levin, leaving the window of the capet, in which they were driving. Nothing for you? and the soul.
Happiness with me!
Why did you never get married?
“I’m very happy, she seems glorious,” started Sergey Ivanovich.
Don’t speak, don’t speak, don’t speak. Levin screamed, holding him with both hands at the gate of his shell and smelling him.
"She's a glorious girl" were so simple, low words, so incompatible with her feelings.
Sergey Ivanovich laughed with a fun laughter that rarely happened to him.
I can say that I am very happy with it.
It can be tomorrow, tomorrow, and nothing more. Nothing, nothing, silence! — said Levin and, smelling it again, added: — I love you very much!
Can I be at the meeting?
Of course, it is possible.
What are you talking about today? He asked Levin, without ceasing to smile.
They came to the meeting. Levin listened, as a secretary, asking, reading a protocol that he obviously did not understand; but Levin saw in the face of that secretary, how kind, kind, and glorious he was.
This was seen by how he was disturbed and confused by reading the protocol.
Then began the speech.
They disputed the calculation of some amounts and the conduct of some tubes, and Sergey Ivanovich wounded two members and said something winning for a long time; and the other member, writing something on paper, captured first, but then replied to him very poisonous and gentle.
And then Swiazhsky (he was right away) also said something so beautiful and noble.
Levin listened to them and clearly saw that neither these counted amounts nor the tubes, that there was nothing of that, and that they were not angry at all, but that they were all such good, glorious people, and so all this was good, good between them.
They didn’t interfere with anyone, and everyone was pleased.
It was remarkable for Levin that they were all now visible to him, and by small, before unseen signs he knew the soul of each and clearly saw that they were all good. Especially him, Levina, they all really loved today.
It was seen by the way they talked to him, how gentle, lovingly looked at him even all the strangers.
So what, are you satisfied? He asked Sergey Ivanovich.
very much.
I didn’t think it was so interesting!
Glorious and wonderful!
Swiazhsky came to Levin and called him to drink tea.
Levin could not understand and remember what he was unhappy in Swiazhsky, what he was looking for from him.
He was a smart and surprisingly good man.
“It’s very pleased,” he said and asked about his wife and his wife.
And by the strange philosophy of thoughts, since in his imagination the thought of Swiazhsky was linked to marriage, he imagined that no one could better tell his happiness than his wife and Swiazhsky, and he was very pleased to go to them.
Swiazhsky asked him about his case in the village, as always, without assuming any possibility to find something that was not found in Europe, and now it was not unpleasant to Levin.
He, on the contrary, felt that Sviazhsky was right, that all this was nothing, and saw the amazing softness and delicacy with which Sviazhsky escaped by expressing his righteousness.
The ladies of Swiazhsky were cute. Levin seemed that they all already knew and sympathized with him, but they didn’t speak only from delicacy.
He sat with them an hour, two, three, speaking about different things, but he understood one thing that filled his soul, and did not notice that he was bored with them terribly and that they had long time to sleep.
Swiazhsky took him to the front, swinging and surprised by the strange state in which his friend was.
It was the second hour.
Levin returned to the hotel and was afraid of thinking about how he is now alone with his impatience to spend his remaining ten hours.
The one who had not been sleeping had burned his candles and wanted to leave, but Levin stopped him.
This Lakey, Igor, whom Levin did not notice before, turned out to be a very intelligent and good man, and most importantly, a good man.
Why is it hard, Igor, not to sleep?
What to do!
Our position is that.
The Lord is more dead; but there are more passengers here.
It turned out that Egopa had a family, a boy and a daughter of a sway, whom he wanted to marry a speaker in a shop shop.
In this case, Levin told Egor his thought that in the bpake the main thing is love and that with love you will always be happy, because happiness is only in you.
Egor listened carefully and obviously fully understood the thought of Levin, but in her suppression he made an unexpected note for Levin that when he lived with good lords, he was always satisfied with his lords and very satisfied with his master, even if he was a fancy.
“A surprisingly good man,” Levi thought.
“When you married, did you love your wife?
“How not to love,” Egor replied.
And Levin saw that Egor is also in an enthusiastic state and intends to express all his breathing feelings.
My life is also amazing.
He began, glowing with his eyes, obviously infected with Levin's enthusiasm, just as people are infected with grey.
But at that time the call was heard; Egor went away, and Levin remained alone.
He almost didn’t eat anything for lunch, gave up the tea and dinner at Sviazhsky, but he couldn’t think about dinner.
He didn’t sleep last night, but he couldn’t even think of a dream.
It was fresh in the room, but it was warm.
He opened both the fortress and sat on the table against the fortress. Behind the snow-covered roofs were visible the cornered cross with chains and above it - the rising triangle of the constellation of the Knight with the yellow-lighted Capella.
He looked at the cross, he looked at the star, he breathed a fresh, frozen air that fled in the room, and, as in a dream, he observed the images and memories that emerged in imagination.
At the fourth hour he heard the steps along the corridor and looked at the door.
This returned to him familiar player Miskin from the club.
He walked dark, swallowing and rejecting.
“Poor and unhappy!” Levin thought, and tears came out on his eyes from love and regret to this man.
He wanted to talk to him, to comfort him; but remembering that he was in one shirt, he thought and sat again to the fortress to swim in the cold air and look at this strange shape, silent but meaningful cross and the rising yellow-light star.
At the seventh hour the roofs were silent, they called to a service, and Levin felt that he began to swallow.
He closed the fortress, washed up, dressed up and went out to the street.
The streets were empty.
Levin went to the house of Scherbacki.
The parade doors were closed and everyone was sleeping.
He went back, went back into the room and asked for coffee.
Danny Lakey, no longer Igor, brought him.
Levin wanted to talk to him, but Lakey was called, and he left.
Levin tried to drink coffee and put the calac in his mouth, but his mouth definitely didn’t know what to do with the calac.
Levin pulled out the cloth, worn a jacket and went to walk again.
It was the tenth hour when he came to the Wing of Scherbacki for the second time.
They just got up in the house, and the cook went for the provision.
We had to live for at least two hours.
All this night and morning Levin lived entirely unconsciously and felt entirely removed from the conditions of material life.
He didn’t eat the whole day, didn’t sleep for two nights, spent a few hours divided in the cold and felt not only fresh and healthy as ever, but he felt completely independent of the body: he moved without muscle effort and felt that everything could be done.
He was sure he would fly up or move the corner of the house if it needed.
He spent the rest of the time on the streets, constantly looking at the clock and looking at the sides.
And what he saw then, he never saw before.
Particularly, the children who went to school, the blue cysie who landed from the roof to the trail, and the sacks swallowed with mouth, which the invisible hand put out, treated him.
These sacks, bulbs and two boys were unterrestrial beings.
All this happened at one time: the boy fled to the bull and, smiling, looked at Levin; the bull scattered with the wings and scattered, glowing in the sun between the dries of snow in the air, and from the bull smelled the spirit of baked bread and the sacks appeared.
All this together was so unusually good that Levin laughed and cried from joy.
Having made a big circle over the Gazette and Kislovka, he returned back to the hotel and, placing the clock in front of himself, sat waiting for twelve.
In the neighboring room they said something about cars and deceived and coughed by morning cough.
They didn’t realize that the shot was approaching twelve.
The shooter came.
Levin went out on the wing.
The expatriates obviously all knew.
They and happy people surrounded Levin, disputing with each other and offering their services.
Trying not to offend other expatriates and promising to travel with them too, Levin took one and ordered to travel to Sherbatsky.
The scooter was glowed in white, lifted from under the coat and stretched on the naked, red, strong neck of the gate of the rubber.
The saints of this carrier were high, gentle, such as Levin had never been on, and the horse was good and tried to run, but did not move from the place.
The exporter knew the house of Scherbatsky and, especially respectfully to the se-doc, rounded his hands and said "prru", sat at the entrance.
The Switzerland Switzerland probably knew everything.
It was seen by the smile of his eyes and by the way he said:
- Well, it has long not been, Konstantin Dmitrić!
Not only did he know everything, but he obviously flattered and made an effort to hide his joy.
Looking into his old sweet eyes, Levin realized even something new in his happiness.
Wake up?
Sorry to you!
And then leave here,” he said with a smile when Levin wanted to come back to take the hat.
It meant something.
To whom to report? I asked Laki.
Lakey was though young and from new lakes, frank, but very good and good man and also understood everything...
The princess...
The Prince...
“Princess,” said Levin.
The first face he saw was Mademoiselle Linon.
She walked through the hall, and the sheets and the face of her shining.
He just talked to her, as suddenly a shark of clothes was heard behind the door, and Mademoiselle Linon disappeared from the eyes of Levin, and the joyful horror of the proximity of her happiness was to him.
Mademoiselle Linon stumbled and, leaving him, went to another door.
Just as she came out, quick and easy steps sounded on the parquet, and his happiness, his life, he himself, the best of himself, what he was looking for and desiring for so long, quickly and quickly approached him.
She didn’t go, but some invisible force came to him.
He only saw her clear, true eyes, scared by the same joy of love that filled his heart.
These eyes lighted closer and closer, blinding him with their light of love.
She stopped under him, touching him.
Her hands raised up and fell on her shoulders.
She did everything she could; she fled to him and gave everything, doing and rejoicing.
He hugged her and threw her lips to her mouth, hurting him by kissing.
She also didn’t sleep all night and was waiting for him all morning.
My mother and father were unquestionably agreeing and happy with her happiness.
She was waiting for him.
She first wanted to declare her and her happiness.
She was preparing to meet him alone and rejoiced with that thought, and she did, and was ashamed, and she did not know what she would do.
She heard his steps and voice and waited for the door until Mademoiselle Linon left.
Mademoiselle Linon has gone.
She, without thinking, without asking herself how and what, approached him and did what she did.
Go to mom! She said, taking him in the hand.
He could not say anything for a long time, not so much because he was afraid by word to break the height of his feelings, but because every time he wanted to say something instead of words, he felt that his tears of happiness would break out.
He took her hand and kissed her.
Is it true? He finally said with a dull voice. I can’t believe that you love me!
She smiled at that “you” and the slave with whom he looked at her. So much, slowly she spoke. I am so happy!
She, without leaving her hands, went into the living room. When the princess saw them, she breathed frequently and immediately cried, and immediately laughed, and with such an energetic step that Levin did not wait for, she fled to them, and, taking the head to Levin, she kissed him and moisturized his clothes with tears.
So everything ended!
I am glad.
Love her.
I am glad...
The Kitty!
They soon arranged! The old prince said, trying to be indifferent; but Levin noticed that his eyes were wet when he turned to him. I have long, always wanted it. He said, taking Levin's hand and attracting him to himself. I was at the time that the windman thought...
The Dad! She screamed and closed her mouth with her hands.
I will not! he said. I am very, very, very...
Oh the! How stupid I am...
He hugged Kitty, kissed her face, hand, and again her face and crossed her.
And Levine captured a new sense of love for this previously strange man, the old prince, when he watched Kitty kissing his massive hand for a long and gentle time.
The princess sat in the chair silently and smiled; the prince sat under her.
Kitty stood at the father's chair, not all throwing out his hand.
Everyone was silent.
The first princess named all the words and translated all the thoughts and feelings into questions of life. And all the same strange and painful even it seemed in the first minute.
When is it?
We must be blessed and proclaimed.
When is the wedding?
What do you think, Alexander?
“Here is he,” said the old prince, pointing to Levin, “he is the main face here.
when? - said Levin, the red. and tomorrow.
If you ask me, I think I will bless today and tomorrow the wedding.
Well, full, mon cher, stupidity!
Well, in a week.
He is exactly crazy.
No, why not?
Happyly smiling at this hurry, my mother said. And the added?
Will all this be given? Lewin thought with horror. But can it be given, and the blessing, and all this, or can it destroy my happiness?
Nothing can ruin!”
He looked at Kitty and noticed that she was in no way, in no way, offended by the thought of the gift.
“It happened, it is necessary,” he thought.
“I don’t know anything, I just said my desire,” he spoke, apologizing.
So we will judge.
Now you can be blessed and proclaimed.
It is so.
The princess came to her husband, kissed him and wanted to go; but he held her, hugged and gently, like a young lover, several times, smiling, kissed her.
The old men were obviously confused for a minute and didn’t know if they were in love again, or just their daughter.
When the prince and the princess went out, Levin approached his bride and took her in the hand.
Now he mastered himself and could speak, and he had to say a lot to her. But he didn’t say exactly what he needed.
How I knew it would be so!
I’ve never hoped, but I’ve always been confident in my soul,” he said. I think that was intended.
And I? She said. She stopped and continued again, determinedly looking at him with her true eyes, even when I pulled out my happiness. I always loved you one, but I was enthusiastic.
I have to say, can you forget that?
Maybe it is for the best.
You have to forgive me a lot.
I have to tell you...
That was one of what he decided to say to her.
He decided to tell her from the first days two things — that he was not as pure as she, and the other — that he was unbeliever.
“No, not now, not after!” he said.
Well, after, but sure to say.
I am not afraid of anything.
I need to know everything.
Now ended.
He said:
It is over that you will take me, whatever I am, do you not give up me?
Yes?
Yes yes.
The conversation was interrupted by Mademoiselle Linon, who, though obsessively but gently smiling, came to congratulate her beloved puppet.
She did not come out yet, as the servants came with greetings.
Then the relatives came, and the blessed sumbor began, from which Levin had not gone until the other day of his wedding.
Levin was constantly unpleasant, boring, but the tension of happiness went, all increasing.
He constantly felt that he needed a lot that he didn’t know, and he did everything he was told, and all that brought him happiness.
He thought that his marriage would not have anything similar to others, that the usual conditions of marriage would destroy his special happiness; but it ended with that he did the same as others, and his happiness from it only increased and became more and more special, not having and not having anything like that.
“Now we’ll eat sweets,” Linon said, “and Levin went to buy sweets.
Well, I’m very happy,” said Swiazhsky. I advise you to take the bouquets from Fomino.
And should? He went to the foam.
Brother told him that you should take money, because there will be a lot of expenses, gifts...
Do you need gifts? And he jumped to Fulde.
And with the conditer, and with Fomin, and with Fulda, he saw what was waiting for him, that he was pleased and celebrated his happiness as much as all he had to do with these days.
It was unusual that he was not only loved by everyone, but also by all the unpleasant, cold, indifferent people, admiring him, obeying him in everything, gently and delicately treated his feelings and shared his belief that he was the happier man in the world, because his bride was the top of perfection.
The same thing Kitty felt.
When Countess Nordstone allowed herself to suggest that she wanted something better, Kitty so burned and so convincingly proved that nothing could be better than Levine in the world, that Countess Nordstone had to admit that and in the presence of Kitty without a smile of admiration she no longer met Levine.
The explanation they promised was a difficult event of that time.
He consulted with the old prince and, after receiving his permission, gave Kitty his journal, in which it was written what suffered him.
He wrote this journal about the future bride. He was tortured by two things: his innocence and his innocence.
The confession in the unbelief has gone unnoticed.
She was religious, never doubted the truths of religion, but his external uncertainty didn’t even affect her.
She knew with love all his soul, and in his soul she saw what she wanted, and what such a state of soul is called to be unbelievers, it was no matter to her.
The same confession caused her to cry bitterly.
Levin not without internal struggle gave her his diary.
He knew that there could not and should not be a secret between them and her, and therefore he decided that it should be; but he did not report how it could work, he did not move into it.
Only that evening when he came to them in front of the theater, entered her room and saw the crying, unhappy of the unreparable anger, the sad and gentle face, he understood the trap that separated his shameful passing from its blue purity, and was scared of what he did.
— Take, take these terrible books! — she said, pulling out the tables on her table. Why did you give them to me?
No, yet better, she added, regretting her desperate face. But it is terrible, terrible!
He dropped his head and silenced. He couldn’t say anything.
“You don’t forgive me,” he screamed.
I’ve forgiven, but it’s terrible!
However, his happiness was so great that this recognition did not break him, but gave him only a new shade.
She has forgiven him; but since then he has even more regarded himself unworthy of her, even lower moral inclination to her, and even higher appreciation of his unworthy happiness.
Unintentionally swallowing in his memory the impression of the conversations held during and after lunch, Alexey Alexandrovich returned to his lonely room.
The words of Darya Alexandrovna about forgiveness made it only annoying.
The application or non-application of the Christian rule to its case was a question too difficult, which could not be spoken slightly, and this question has long been resolved by Alexey Alexandrovich negatively.
Of all that was said the most burned in his imagination the words of the foolish, good Turovtsin: the youth acted; he called for a duel and killed.
Everyone obviously compassioned for this, although they did not say it by kindness.
“But this thing is over, there’s nothing to think about it,” Alexey Alexandrovich said to himself. And, thinking only about the upcoming departure and the case of revision, he entered his number and asked the provoking Switzerland where his lake was; the Switzerland said that the lake was just out.
Alexey Aleksandrovich gave himself a tea, sat to the table and, taking Fruma, began to consider the route of the journey.
— Two telegrams, — said the returning Lakey. entering the room. Sorry, your superiority, I’ve just gone out.
Alexey Aleksandrovich took the telegram and printed it.
The first telegram was the announcement of the appointment of Stremov to the same place that Karenin wanted.
Alexey Aleksandrovich throwed the depech and, reddened, stood up and began to cold around the room.
"Quos vult lose dementat," he said, under quos those persons who contributed to this purpose.
He didn’t get bored that he didn’t get this place, that he obviously passed; but he didn’t understand, it was surprising how they didn’t see that the bullton, the fraser of Stremov, was less capable of anything else.
How they didn’t see that they lost themselves, their prestige with this purpose!
“There’s something like this,” he said to himself yellowly, opening the second depice.
The telegram was from my wife. Her signature with a blue pencil, "Anna", the first was thrown in his eyes.
“I am dying, please, I pray to come.
I will die with forgiveness more calm,” he read.
He smiled and threw a telegram.
That it was a trick and a trick, in that, as he seemed in the first minute, there could be no doubt.
“There is no deception before which she would stop.
She must give birth. Per a birth disease.
But what is their goal?
To legalize a child, to compromise me and to prevent divorce, he thought. But there’s something said: I’m dying.”
He read the telegram; and suddenly the direct meaning of what was said in it surprised him.
“What if it is true? He said to himself. If it is true that, in the minute of suffering and close death, she is sincere, she is eaten, and if I accept it as a betrayal, will I refuse to come?
