It will not only be cruel, and everyone will condemn me, but it will be stupid on my side.”
Peter, stop the car.
I’m going to St. Petersburg,” he said.
Alexey Alexandrovich decided to go to St. Petersburg and see his wife.
If her illness is a trick, he will silence and go away. If she is truly sick at death and desires to see him before death, then he will forgive her if she remains alive, and will give her last duty if she comes too late.
All the way he didn’t think about what to do.
With the feeling of fatigue and impurity produced at night in the wagon, in the early hole of St. Petersburg, Alexey Alexandrovich was driving through the desert Nevsky and looked in front of himself, without thinking about what was waiting for him.
He couldn’t think about it, because, imagining what would happen, he couldn’t remove the assumption that death would immediately dissolve all the difficulty of his situation.
The bread shops, the shops closed, the night shops, the palaces, the melting trailers, the melt in his eyes, and he observed all this, trying to hide in himself the thought of what awaits him and what he cannot desire and still desires. He came to the wing.
The car and the car with a sleeping dog stood at the entrance.
Getting into the Senate, Alexey Alexandrovich seemed to come out of a distant corner of his brain and dealt with it.
There was the meaning: "If it is a trick, then negligence is calm, and go. If it is true, respect the dignity.”
The Swiss opened the door before Alexey Alexandrovich called.
The Swiss Petrov, otherwise Capitanic, had a strange appearance in the old shirt, without a shirt and in shoes.
What is Barry?
I decided well yesterday.
Alexey Alexandrovich stopped and bleed.
He now clearly understood with what strength he wanted her death.
What about health?
The roots in the morning fled from the stairs.
Very bad, he replied. There was a doctor's congress yesterday, and now the doctor is here.
- Take things, - said Alexey Aleksandrovich, and, experiencing some relief from the news that there is still hope of death, he entered the front.
There was a military jacket on the jacket. Alexey Aleksandrovich noticed this and asked:
Who is here?
Doctor, nurse and Count Vronsky.
Alexey Alexandrovich went into the inner rooms.
There was no one in the living room; from her cabin to the sound of his steps, a mother-in-law came out in a cap with lily stripes.
She approached Alexey Alexandrovich and, with the familarity of the vicinity of death, took him in the hand and led him to the bedroom.
Thank God that you came!
Just about you and about you, she said.
- Give the ice faster! - said a striking voice from the bedroom.
Alexey Alexandrovich went to her office.
At her table next to the back on a low chair, Vronsky sat and, closing his face with his hands, cried.
He jumped up to the doctor's voice, took his hands from his face and saw Alexey Alexandrovich.
When he saw his husband, he was so troubled that he sat again, pulling his head into his shoulders, as if he wanted to disappear somewhere; but he made an effort on himself, he got up and said:
She is dying.
The doctors said there was no hope.
I am all in your power, but let me be here... however, I am in your will, I am in your power.
Alexey Alexandrovich, seeing the tears of Vronsky, felt the flow of that mental disorder that produced in it a form of suffering of other people, and, opening his face, he, not listening to his words, quickly went to the door.
From the bedroom I heard the voice of Anna saying something.
Her voice was joyful, vibrant, with extremely certain intonations.
Alexey Alexandrovich entered the bedroom and approached the bed.
She lie down, turning her face to him.
The shakes riddled with rumen, the eyes glowed, the small white hands, hanging out of the mantle of the coft, played, overwhelming it, the corner of the coat.
It seemed that it was not only healthy and fresh, but in the best mood.
She spoke quickly, soundly and with unusually correct and sensitive intonations.
Because Alexey, I’m talking about Alexey Alexandrovich (what’s a strange, terrible fate that both Alexey, isn’t it true?Alexis would not refuse me.
I would forget, he would forgive.
Why is he not going?
He is good, he does not know how good he is.
Oh my God, what a shit!
Give me water faster.
Oh, it will be harmful to her, my daughter!
Give her a food.
I agree, it is even better.
He will come, he will be painful to see her.
Give her.
- Anna Arkadievna, he has come.
This is he! — said the nurse, trying to turn her attention to Alexey Alexandrovich.
Anna continued without seeing her husband. Let me give it, girl, let me give it.
He has not yet arrived.
You say that he will not forgive, that you do not know him. No one knew.
I was one, and it was hard for me.
His eyes, you need to know, Serez has exactly the same, and I can’t see them from that.
Are you going to dinner?
I know everyone will forget.
He would not forget.
You have to transfer Sereza to the coal and Mariette ask him to lie with him.
Suddenly she shakened, silenced, and with fear, as if waiting for a blow, as if defending herself, she raised her hands to her face. She saw her husband.
“No,” she said, “I’m not afraid of him, I’m afraid of death.
Alex, come here.
I’m hurrying because I’ve ever, I’ve left to live a little, now the heat begins, and I’m not going to understand anything.
Now I understand, and I understand everything, I see everything.
Alexey Alexandrovich's narrow face took a painful expression; he took her in his hand and wanted to say something, but he couldn't say anything; his lower lips dropped, but he still fought with his excitement and only suddenly looked at it.
And every time he looked, he saw her eyes that looked at him with such humble and enthusiastic delicacy as he never saw in them.
Wait, you don’t know.
Stay, stay... she stopped, as if she was gathering with thoughts. Yes, she started it. Yes, yes and yes.
That’s what I wanted to say.
Don’t be surprised by me. I am all the same...
But there's another in me, I'm afraid of her - she loved it, and I wanted to hate you, and I couldn't forget the one that was before. It is not me.
Now I am real, I am all.
I’m going to die, I know I’m going to die, ask him.
I still feel, these are the pudding on my hands, on my feet, on my fingers.
The fingers are huge!
But it all will soon end...
I need one thing: forgive me, forgive me completely!
I was terrible, but my grandmother said to me: The holy martyr — how did she be called? She was worse.
And I will go to Rome, there is the desert, and then I will not interfere with anyone, but I will take Sereza and the girl...No, you can’t forgive!
I know that cannot be forgiven!
No, no, you’re too good! She kept his hot hand with one hand, and the other pulled him away.
Alexey Alexandrovich’s mental disorder was increasing and now it was so far that he had already stopped fighting with it; he suddenly felt that what he considered a mental disorder was, on the contrary, a blessed state of soul, which suddenly gave him a new, never experienced happiness.
He did not think that the Christian law, which he wanted to follow all his life, prescribed him to forgive and love his enemies; but the joyful sense of love and forgiveness to the enemies filled his soul.
He stood on his knees and, placing his head on the slope of her hand, which burned him with fire through the coffle, cried like a child.
She shut up his whispering head, moved to him, and with proud pride raised his eyes up.
This is he, I knew.
Goodbye to all, goodbye to all!
They came again, why don’t they get out?
Remove these shells from me!
The doctor took her hands, carefully placed her on a pillow and covered her with her shoulders.
She slept down and looked in front of her with a bright look.
Remember one thing that I needed one forgiveness, and I don’t want anything more.
Why will he not come? She spoke, turning to the door to Vronsky. Come and come!
Give him the hand.
Wronsky approached the edge of the bed and, seeing her, again closed his face with his hands.
Open your face and look at it.
He is holy, she said. Open your face, open your face! She spoke angry. Alexey Alexandrovich, open his face.
I want to see him.
Alexey Aleksandrovich took the hands of Vronsky and took them out of the face, terrible by the expression of suffering and shame that were on him.
Give him the hand.
Forgive him.
Alexey Alexandrovich gave him his hand, not holding the tears that dropped out of his eyes.
“Glory to God, glory to God,” she said, “today everything is ready.
Just stretch the legs a little.
So so, this is wonderful.
How these flowers are made without taste, it doesn’t look like a fial, she said, indicating the paintings. My God, my God!
When will it end?
Give me a morphine.
The Doctor! Give a morphine.
My God, my God!
She noticed on the bed.
Doctors and doctors said that it was a birth heat, in which of the hundred was 99, which ends with death.
The whole day was heat, bread and remembrance.
By midnight the patient lie without sensations and almost without a pulse.
I was waiting for the end of every minute.
Wronsky went home, but in the morning he came to find out, and Alexey Aleksandrovich, meeting him in the front, said: - Stay, maybe she will ask you, - and he himself took him to his wife's office.
By the morning, the excitement, anger, the speed of thought and speech began again, and again ended with a reminder.
The third day was the same, and the doctors said there was hope.
On that day, Alexey Aleksandrovich went out to the office, where Vronsky was sitting, and, closing the door, sat against him.
- Alexey Alexandrovich, - said Vronsky, feeling that the explanation is approaching, - I can't speak, I can't understand.
Saving me!
No matter how hard it is to you, believe that I am even worse.
He wanted to stand up. Alexei Aleksandrovich took his hand and said:
I ask you to listen to me, it is necessary.
I have to explain to you my feelings, those who have led me and will lead me, so that you will not be misleading about me.
You know that I decided to divorce and even started this business.
I do not hide from you that, at the beginning, I was unresolved, I suffered; I admit to you that the desire to revenge you and her persecuted me.
When I got a telegram, I went here with the same feelings, I would say more: I wish her death.
But... he was silent in thought of whether to open up or not to open up his feelings. I saw her and forgived her.
And the happiness of forgiveness opened me my duty.
I forgiven completely.
I want to put another puppy, I want to give the puppy when I get a puppy, and I only pray to God that he does not take the happiness of forgiveness from me! The tears stood in his eyes, and the light, quiet sight hit Vronsky. This is my position.
You can put me into dirt, make a laughing light, I will not leave it, and I will never tell you a word of blame. My duty is clear to me: I must be with her and I will be.
If she wants to see you, I’ll tell you, but now, I think you’re better to get away.
He stood up, and his speech was interrupted.
Vronsky also stood up and looked at him in a naked, undirected state of downwardness.
He didn’t understand Alexey Alexandrovich’s feelings. But he felt that it was something higher and even unavailable to him in his worldview.
After his conversation with Alexey Alexandrovich, Vronsky went out on the wing of the house of the Kareninians and stopped, hardly remembering where he and where he should go or go.
He felt overwhelmed, humiliated, guilty, and lacking the opportunity to wipe his humiliation.
He felt out of the wheel that he was so proud and easy to walk so far.
Everyone that seemed so hard, the habits and statutes of his life suddenly turned out to be false and unapplicable.
The man, the deceived husband, who was still a sad being, an accidental and somewhat comic obstacle to his happiness, was suddenly caused by herself, raised to an insightful altitude, and this man appeared at this altitude not evil, not false, not funny, but good, simple and majestic.
This could not be felt by Vronsky.
The roles suddenly changed.
Vronsky felt his height and his humiliation, his righteousness and his injustice.
He felt that his husband was generous in his evil, and he was low, small in his deception.
But this consciousness of his humility in the face of the man, whom he unjustly denied, was only a small part of his anger.
He felt unreasonably unhappy now because his passion for Anne, which was cooling, seemed to him recently, now, when he knew he lost her forever, became stronger than it was ever.
He saw her all during her illness, recognized her soul, and he seemed that he never loved her so far.
And now, when he knew her, loved how it was to love, he was humiliated before her and lost her forever, leaving in her a shy memory of himself.
The worst was his ridiculous, shy position when Alexey Alexandrovich took his hands away from his shy face.
He stood on the wing of the house of the Karenes as lost and didn’t know what to do.
Order the exporter? The Swiss asked.
Yes the exporter.
Returning home after three bedless nights, Vronsky, not dressing up, lay a niche on the sofa, put his hands and put his head on them.
His head was heavy.
The most strange ideas, memories and thoughts with extraordinary speed and clarity changed with each other: it was the medicine that he wrapped the patient and wrapped through a teaspoon, the white hands of the nurse, the strange position of Alexey Alexandrovich on the floor in front of the bed.
to sleep! to forget!” He said to himself, with a quiet confidence of a healthy person, that if he is tired and wants to sleep, he will sleep right now.
And indeed, at the same moment in his head began to confuse, and he began to fail into the gap of forgiveness.
The waves of the sea of unconscious life began to go down over his head, as suddenly, the strongest electricity charging was drawn into him, he drowned up so that his whole body jumped on the pipe of the sofa and, starting with his hands, with fear jumped up on his knees.
His eyes were wide open, as if he had never slept.
The weight of the head and the weakness of the members he experienced in a minute suddenly disappeared.
“You can dive into dirt,” he heard the words of Alexey Alexandrovich and saw him in front of himself, and saw with a hot rumenic and bright eyes the face of Anna, with delicacy and love looking not on him, but on Alexey Alexandrovich; he saw his, as he seemed, stupid and funny figure, when Alexey Alexandrovich took his hand from his face.
He again stretched his legs and dropped on the sofa in the previous position and closed his eyes.
to sleep! to sleep!” He repeated himself.
But with his eyes closed, he saw Anna’s face even more clearly as it was in his memorial evening before the jumping.
This is not and will not be, and she wants to remove it from her memory.
I can’t live without it.
How do we reconcile, how do we reconcile? He said hearingly and unconsciously began to repeat these words.
This repeat of words stopped the emergence of new images and memories that he felt crowded in his head.
But the repetition of the words kept the imagination shortly.
Again, one after the other, the best minutes and with them the recent humiliation began to be presented with an extraordinary speed.
“Eat your hands,” says Anna’s voice.
He takes off his hands and feels the foolish and stupid expression of his face.
He was all lying, trying to fall asleep, though he felt that there was no little hope, and he repeated all the random words of some thought, hoping to stop the emergence of new images.
He listened – and he heard the words repeated by a strange, crazy scream: “He couldn’t appreciate, he couldn’t use; he couldn’t appreciate, he couldn’t use.”
“What is it? Do I look foolish? He said to himself. Maybe is.
Why are they crazy and why are they shooting?” He answered himself, and when he opened his eyes, he was surprised to see under his head a shade of the work of Vary, his brother’s wife.
He stumbled the kit of the van and tried to remember Vare, when he saw her for the last time.
But thinking about something strange was painful.
“No, you have to sleep!”
He moved the pillow and pressed it with his head, but it was necessary to make a lot of effort to keep his eyes closed.
He jumped up and sat down.
“It’s over for me,” he said to himself. We need to consider what to do.
What’s left?” His thought quickly saved his life beyond his love for Anna.
The honesty?
of Serpukhov?
The light?
The courtyard?” He couldn’t stop anything.
It was meaningful before, but now it is nothing more. He stood up from the sofa, pulled the sweater, throwed out the belt and, opening the moisturized chest to breathe more freely, walked through the room.
“So they’re crazy,” he repeated, “and so they’re shooting... so it’s not shameful,” he slowly added.
He approached the door and closed it; then, with a standing look and strongly pressed teeth, he approached the table, took the revolver, looked at it, turned to the charged stool and thought.
For two minutes, leaving his head with the expression of an intense effort of thought, he stood with the revolver in his hands stable and thought.
“It’s clear,” he said to himself, as if a logical, prolonged and clear course of thought led him to a doubtless conclusion.
In fact, this convincing "comprehensible" for him was only the consequence of the repetition of exactly the same circle of memories and concepts through which he passed already dozens of times in this hour of time.
The same were the memories of happiness, eternally lost, the same conception of the meaninglessness of all that is coming in life, the same consciousness of its humiliation.
The same was the sequence of these concepts and feelings.
“It’s clear,” he repeated, when for the third time his thought turned again on the same folded circle of memories and thoughts, and, placing the revolver on the left side of his chest and strongly swallowing the whole hand, as if suddenly pressing it into the bulk, he pulled for the bag.
He did not hear the sound of a shot, but a strong blow to the chest hit him from his feet.
He wanted to stay at the edge of the table, ruined the revolver, swallowed and sat on the ground, looking surprisingly around himself.
He didn’t know his room, looking from below to the drawn legs of the table, to the paper basket and to the tiger skin.
The fast scratching steps of the servant, who walked through the hall, made him remember.
He made an effort of thought and realized that he was on the floor, and when he saw blood on the tiger skin and on his hand, he realized that he was shooting.
It is stupid!
He didn’t get it, he spoke, throwing his hand behind the revolver.
Revolver was under him, he was looking forward.
Continuing to look, he dragged to the other side and, unable to maintain the balance, fell, flowing with blood.
The elegant servant with backenbards, who repeatedly complained to his acquaintance about the weakness of his nerves, was so scared when he saw the lord on the floor that he left him flowing with blood and fled for help.
One hour later, Varia, the wife of her brother, came and with the help of three appearing doctors, who she sent to all sides and who came at the same time, put the wounded on bed and stayed with him to follow him.
The mistake made by Alexey Alexandrovich in the fact that he, preparing for a date with his wife, did not consider the coincidence that the regret of her will be sincere and he will forgive, and she will not die—this mistake two months after his return from Moscow was presented to him in all his strength.
But the mistake they made occurred not only because he didn’t think about this coincidence, but also because he didn’t know his heart until the day of meeting with the deceiving wife.
In the bed of a sick wife, for the first time in his life, he gave himself to the feeling of compassion, which in him caused the suffering of other people, and which he was first as shameful as a harmful weakness; and the regret to her, and the regret that he desired her death, and, most importantly, the joy of forgiveness made that he suddenly felt not only the fatigue of his suffering, but also the soul peace that he never experienced before.
He suddenly felt that what was the source of his suffering became the source of his spiritual joy, what seemed unresolved when he condemned, blamed and hated, became simple and clear when he forgiven and loved.
He forgived his wife and regreted her for her suffering and regret.
He forgived Vronsky and regreted him, especially after the rumors of his desperate act came to him.
He regretted his son more than before, and now he blamed himself for doing too little to them.
But to the newborn little girl he experienced some special feeling not only of regret, but also of delicacy.
At first, from a sense of compassion, he took care of that newborn little girl, which was not his daughter and which was abandoned during the mother’s illness and probably would die if he did not take care of her — and he himself didn’t notice how he loved her.
He went to the children’s room several times a day and lived there for a long time, so that the nurse and grandmother, who first did before him, were accustomed to him.
He sometimes, half a minute silence, looked at the sleeping saffron-red, smoke and swallowed face of the child and observed the movements of the swallowing forehead and behind the swallowed handbags with the folded fingers, which behind his arms throwed the eyelids and the carrier.
At such moments, in particular, Alexey Alexandrovich felt completely calm and consistent with himself and did not see in his position anything unusual, anything that would have to be changed.
But the longer the time passed, the clearer he saw that, no matter how natural it was for him now, he will not be allowed to stay in it.
He felt that, in addition to the good of the spiritual force that led his soul, there was another, gross, so or even more powerful force that led his life, and that this force would not give him the humble peace he wanted.
He felt that everyone looked at him with a questionable surprise, that they didn’t understand him and expected something from him. In particular, he felt the unnaturality and unnaturality of his relationship with his wife.
When the mildness made in her by the vicinity of death passed, Alexey Alexandrovich began to notice that Anna was afraid of him, treached by him and couldn’t look directly into his eyes.
She was as if she wanted something and did not decide to tell him, and also as if she felt that their relationship could not continue, she was expecting something from him.
In late February, the newborn daughter of Anna, also called Anna, was sick.
Alexey Aleksandrovich was in the morning in the children's room and, ordered to send to the doctor, went to the ministry.
After completing his work, he returned home at the fourth hour.
When he entered the front, he saw a beautiful laquea in the gallons and a bear pear, who had a white rotonde from an American dog.
Who is here? Asked by Alexey Alexandrovich.
- Princess Elizabeth Fedorovna Tverskaya, - with a smile, as it appeared to Alexey Alexandrovich, replied lakey.
In all this difficult time, Alexey Alexandrovich noticed that his worldly acquaintances, especially women, took a special part in him and his wife.
He noticed in all of these acquaintances hardly hidden joy of something, the same joy he saw in the eyes of the lawyer and now in the eyes of Lakey.
Everyone was excited, as if they were married to someone.
When they met him, they asked with a little hidden joy about her health.
The presence of the princess of Tverskaya, and according to the memories related to her, and because he didn’t love her at all, was unpleasant to Alexey Alexandrovich, and he went straight to the children’s room.
In the first child's series, lying with the chest on the table and put his legs on the chair, painted something, joyfully judging.
The English woman, who replaced during Anna's illness the French woman, sitting under the boy with a minyardis bond, rushed up, settled and stumbled Sereza.
Alexey Alexandrovich shed his hand on his son’s hair, answered the question of the governor about his wife’s health and asked what the doctor said about the baby.
“The doctor said there was nothing dangerous, and he prescribed a bath, a shock.
“But she is suffering,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, listening to the child’s scream in the neighboring room.
“I think the nurse doesn’t fit, strike,” the English woman strongly said.
Why do you think? When he stopped, he asked.
This was the case with Count Paul.
The child was treated, and it turned out that just the child was hungry: the nurse was without milk, shock.
Alexey Aleksandrovich thought and, stood a few seconds, entered the other door.
The girl was lying down, throwing her head, turning on the hands of the nurse, and didn’t want to take the swollen chest offered to her, nor to silence, despite the double shake of the nurse and the nurse swallowing over her.
Not everything is better? - said Alexey Alexandrovich.
— Very worried — the grandmother answered with a scream.
“Miss Edward says she may not have milk,” he said.
I think myself, Alexey Alexandrovich.
So what will you not say?
Who to say?
Anna Arkadievna is all unhealthy, the grandmother said unhappy.
My grandmother was the old servant of the house. And in these simple words her Alexey Alexandrovich appeared a clue to his position.
The child was screaming even more loud, hanging and screaming.
The grandmother, removing her hand, approached him, took him out of the hand of the nurse and began to indicate on the way.
“You have to ask the doctor to check the cartridge,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said.
Healthy in sight, the carpet, afraid that she will be rejected, talked to herself something under the nose and, covering the big chest, negligently smiled on the doubt of her milkness.
In this smile, Alexey Alexandrovich also found a smile on his position.
— Unfortunate child! — said the grandmother, cheerful to the child, and continued to walk.
Alexey Aleksandrovich sat on a chair and with a suffering, unhappy face looked at the walking back and forward of the grandmother.
When the quiet, finally, the child was thrown into a deep bed and the grandmother, repaired the подуal, left him, Alexey Alexandrovich stood up and, hardly staying on the chickens, approached the child.
For a minute he was silent and looked at the child with the same disappointed face; but suddenly a smile, moving his hair and skin on his forehead, appeared on his face, and he also silently came out of the room.
In the dining room he called and told the servant to send the doctor again.
He was bored with his wife because she did not take care of this pre-crew child, and in this position she did not want to go to her, she did not want to see the princess Betty too; but the wife could be surprised why he, as usual, did not go to her, and therefore he, making an effort on himself, went to the bedroom.
Going through a soft cover to the door, he accidentally heard a conversation he didn’t want to hear.
If he didn’t leave, I would understand your rejection and him too.
But your husband must be above that,” said Betty.
I don’t want for my husband, I don’t want for myself.
Don’t say that! — answered Anna’s excited voice.
“Yes, but you can’t want to forgive the man who shot for you.
This is what I do not want.
Alexey Aleksandrovich with a scared and guilty expression stopped and wanted to go unnoticably back. But, thinking that it would be unworthy, he turned again and, coughing, went to the bedroom.
The voice was silent, and he entered.
Anna in a gray shirt, with a short, thick shirt with black hair out on a round head, sat on a shirt.
As always when she saw her husband, the revival of her face suddenly disappeared; she dropped her head and looked at Betty anxiously.
Betty, dressed in the ultimate fashion, in a hat, somewhat curved over her head, like a pillow over the lamp, and in a silk dress with hairy sharp stripes on the lift on the one side and on the jacket on the other side, sat next to Anna, straight holding her flat high stand, and, laying her head, met Alexey Alexandrovich with a laughing smile.
She said, how surprised she was. I am so glad you are at home.
You are not shown anywhere, and I have not seen you since the time of Anna’s illness.
I heard all of your concerns.
Yes, you are a wonderful husband! — she said with a significant and loving look, as if complaining his order of generosity for his behavior with his wife.
Alexey Alexandrovich worshipped coldly and, kissing his wife's hand, asked about her health.
“I think it’s better,” she said, avoiding his eyes.
“But you have a feverful color of your face,” he said, hanging on the word “feverful.”
“We’ve talked too much with her,” said Betty, “I feel it’s selfish from my side, and I’m going away.
She got up, but Anna, suddenly red, quickly caught her in her hand.
No, please forget it.
I have to tell you, no, you, she turned to Alexey Alexandrovich, and the Romanian covered her neck and neck. “I don’t want and can’t have anything hidden from you,” she said.
Alexey Alexandrovich shocked his fingers and dropped his head.
Betty said that Count Vronsky wanted to be with us to apologize before he went to Tashkent. She didn’t look at her husband and obviously had a hurry to say everything, no matter how hard it was for her. I said I can’t accept him.
“You said, my friend, that it will depend on Alexey Alexandrovich,” Betty repaired her.
— No, I can’t accept him, and that’s nothing... — She suddenly stopped and looked questionably at her husband (he didn’t look at her). In a word, I don’t want...
Alexey Alexandrovich moved and wanted to take her hand.
By the first move, she removed her hand from his moist, with a large swallowed hand, which was looking for her; but, apparently, made an effort on herself, she caught his hand.
“I’m very grateful to you for your trust, but... he said, with confusion and annoyance feeling that what he could easily and clearly solve with himself, he could not discuss with the princess of Tverska, which was his representation of the brutal force that had to lead his life in the eyes of the light and prevented him from giving up his sense of love and forgiveness.
He stopped looking at the princess Tverskaya.
“Goodbye, my beauty,” said Betty, rising up.
She kissed Anna and went out.
Alexey Alexandrovich led her.
“I know you as a generous man,” said Betty, staying in a small living room and especially strongly pressing his hand again. I am a stranger, but I love her so much and respect you that I give myself advice.
Accept him.
Alexey has a personified honor, and he goes to Tashkent.
– Thank you, Princess, for your participation and advice.
But the question of whether or not a wife can or cannot accept someone, she will decide by herself.
He said this, by habit with dignity, lifting the bridges, and immediately thought that no matter what words, dignity could not be in his position. And it was what he saw in the distracted, evil and laughing smile with which Betty looked at him after his phrase.
Alexey Alexandrovich worshipped Betty in the hall and went to his wife.
She was lying, but hearing his steps, she quickly sat in the previous position and looked at him scaredly.
He saw that she was crying.
“I am very grateful for your trust in me,” he briefly repeated the Russian phrase by Betty in French and sat under it.
When he spoke Russian and told her “you,” that “you” irresistibly irritated Anna. I am very grateful for your decision.
I also believe that as he goes, there is no reason for Count Vronsky to come here.
However...
I said, so what to repeat? - Anna suddenly overwhelmed him with an irritation that she couldn't hold.
“There is no need to come to a man to forgive the woman he loves, for whom he wants to die and destroy himself, and who cannot live without him.
There is no convenience!”
She tightened her lips and laid the bright eyes on his hands with the swallowed wings that slowly washed each other.
“We’ll never talk about it,” she added calmly.
“I have given you to solve this question, and I’m very happy to see...” began Alexey Alexandrovich.
That my desire coincides with you, she quickly ended, irritated by the fact that he speaks so slowly, while she knows everything that he will say.
“Yes,” he confirmed, “and the princess Tverskaya is completely inappropriate to interfere with the hardest family affairs.
Especially she...
“I don’t believe anything about her,” Anna said quickly, “I know she really loves me.
Alexey Alexandrovich breathed and silenced.
She was anxiously playing the cysts of the chalet, looking at him with the painful sense of physical hatred to him, for which she accused herself, but which she couldn’t overcome.
She now wanted only one – to be released from her foolish presence.
“And I’ve now sent to the doctor,” said Alexey Aleksandrovich.
I am healthy, why do I have a doctor?
“No, the little girl cries, and, they say, the nurse has little milk.
Why did you not allow me to feed when I prayed?
All the way (Alexey Alexandrovich understood what it meant "all the same"), she's a child, and he's tired. She called and told me to bring the child. I asked to feed, I was not allowed, and now I am guilty.
I do not blame...
No, you are blaming! My God! Why I have not died! And she stumbled. “Forgive me, I’m angry, I’m unjust,” she said, remembering. But go...
“No, it can’t stay so,” Alexey Alexandrovich decidedly told himself, leaving his wife.
Never yet the impossibility in the eyes of the light of his position and the hatred of his wife to him, and in general the power of that brutal mysterious force that, contrary to his spiritual mood, led his life and demanded the fulfillment of his will and the change of his relationship with his wife, did not be presented to him with such obviousness as now.
He clearly saw that the whole light and his wife demanded something from him, but what exactly, he couldn’t understand.
He felt that for this in his soul was raised the feeling of evil, which destroyed his tranquillity and all the merit of accomplishment.
He thought that it would be better for Anna to break the relationship with Vronsky, but if they all find that it is impossible, he was ready to even re-accept these relations, just not to shame the children, not to deprive them, and not to change their position.
Whatever it was bad, it was still better than a break in which she became in an outcome, shameful position, and he himself was deprived of everything he loved.
But he felt impotent; he knew in advance that everything was against him and that he would not be allowed to do what he now seemed so natural and good, but would be forced to do what was bad, but they seemed to be worthy.
But Betty failed to get out of the hall, as Stephan Arkadić, who just arrived from Eliseev, where the fresh wheels were received, met her in the doors.
A! The princess! This is a pleasant meeting! he said. I was with you.
“Meet for a minute because I’m going,” said Betty, smiling and wearing my gloves.
Stay, Princess, wear your gloves, let you kiss your gloves.
I am not so grateful for the return of old fashion as for kissing hands. He kissed Betty's hand. When will we see?
“You’re not standing,” Betty answered with a smile.
“No, I’m very sturdy because I’ve become the most serious person.
I do not only do my own, but also other family affairs, he said with a significant expression of the face.
– Oh, I’m so happy! – answered Betty, immediately realizing that he was talking about Anna.
And when they returned to the hall, they got in the corner. “He’s tired of her,” said Betty with a great noise. It is impossible, it is impossible...
“I am very happy that you think so,” said Stepan Arkadić, heading his head with a serious and suffering-sensitive expression of the face, “I came to St. Petersburg for that.
“The whole city is talking about it,” she said. This is an impossible situation.
She tats and tats.
He doesn’t understand that she’s one of those women who can’t joke with their feelings.
One of the two: either bring it, energically act, or give divorce.
And that breathes her.
“Yes, yes... it’s right,” said Oblonsky. I came after that. That’s not exactly after that...
I was a cameraman and I was grateful.
But the most important thing is to arrange it.
God help you! — said Betty.
Leaving the princess Betty to the seed, kissing her hand again above the gloves, where the pulse bits, and put her in such an unpleasant look that she no longer knew whether to be angry or laugh, Stephan Arkadić went to her sister.
He put her in tears.
Despite the brilliant joyful position of the spirit in which he was, Stephan Arkadić immediately naturally passed into that compassionate, poetically exciting tone that approached her mood. He asked her about her health and how she spent the morning.
Very, very badly.
and the day. And the morning, and all the past and future days, she said.
I think you’re going to be dark.
You have to look at it, you have to look at life.
I know it’s hard, but...
“I heard that women love men even for their faults,” Anna suddenly began, “but I hate him for his virtue.
I cannot live with him.
You understand, his appearance physically affects me, I get out of myself.
I can’t, I can’t live with him.
What do I do?
I was unhappy and thought I could not be unhappy, but I couldn’t imagine the terrible state I’m experiencing now.
You will believe that I, knowing that he is a good, excellent man, that I do not stand his nails, I still hate him.
I hate him for his generosity.
I have nothing left but...
She wanted to say death, but Stephan Arkadić didn’t let her deal.
“You’re sick and angry,” he said, “think that you’re exaggerating terribly.
There is nothing so terrible here.
Stephan Arkadic smiled.
No one in the place of Stephan Arkadić, having a deal with such despair, would allow himself to smile (the smile would seem rough), but in his smile there was so much kindness and almost female delicacy that the smile did not offend him, but mild and calm.
His quiet calming speech and smile acted mildly calming, like mandala oil. And Anna soon felt that.
“No, Steve,” she said. I died, I died!
Worse than he died.
I’m not dead yet, I can’t say everything is over, on the contrary, I feel it’s not over.
I am like a stretched string that has to break.
But it is not over yet and it ends terribly.
No, you can slowly drop the thread.
There is no condition from which there is no way out.
I thought and thought.
Only one...
Again, he understood from her scared sight that this one way, in her opinion, was death, and he did not allow her to agree.
— No, — said he, — let me.
You can’t see your position like me.
Let me express my opinion honestly. Again, he quickly smiled with his almond smile. You married a man who is twenty years older than you.
You married without love or without knowing love.
It was a mistake, let’s put it.
“It’s a terrible mistake!” said Anna.
But I repeat, this is a fact.
Then you had, let’s say, the misfortune not to love your husband.
It’s unfortunate, but it’s also a fact.
And your husband acknowledged and forgived it. He stopped after each phrase, waiting for her objection, but she didn’t answer anything. It is so.
Now the question is: can you continue to live with your husband?
Do you want that?
Does he want that?
I know nothing, I know nothing.
But you said that you can’t tolerate it.
No, I didn’t say.
I will deny.
I don’t know anything and I don’t understand anything.
Yes, but let me...
You can’t understand.
I feel like I’m healing my head down into some gap, but I don’t have to be saved.
And I cannot.
No, we’ll take you and take you.
I understand you, I understand that you can’t take on yourself to express your desire, your feelings.
I don’t want anything, I don’t want anything, I just want everything to end.
He sees it and knows it.
Do you think he’s going to bother you with this?
You are suffering, he is suffering, and what can come out of that?
While the divorce connects everything, Stepan Arkadić expressed the main thought and looked at it significantly.
She didn’t answer anything and climbed negatively with her scratched head. But by the expression of the suddenly glowing beauty of the face he saw that she didn’t want it just because it seemed to her impossible happiness.
I am terribly sorry for you!
And how happy I would be if I had arranged it! said Stepan Arkadic, already more boldly smiling. Don’t say, don’t say anything!
If God had given me to tell me how I feel.
I will go to him.
Anna looked at him with bright eyes and said nothing.
Stephan Arkadić, with that some ceremonial face with whom he sat in the chair chair in his presence, entered the cabinet of Alexey Alexandrovich.
Alexey Alexandrovich, putting his hands on his back, walked around the room and thought about the same as Stephan Arkadić talked to his wife.
Do I not interfere with you? - said Stephan Arkadić, when he saw a uncle suddenly experiencing an unusual feeling of disturbance.
In order to hide this disturbance, he just got the newly purchased papyrus with a new way of opening and, scratching the skin, got the papyrus.
Do you need something? Alexey Alexandrovich answered.
“Yes, I wanted... I need... yes, I need to talk,” said Stepan Arkadić, surprised by feeling an unusual slavery.
The feeling was so unexpected and strange that Stephan Arkadić did not believe that it was a voice of conscience that told him that what he was intended to do was bad.
Stephan Arkadić made an effort and defeated the slave found on him.
“I hope you believe in my love for the sister and in my sincere attachment and respect to you,” he said, red.
Alexey Alexandrovich stopped and nothing answered, but his face hit Stepan Arkadić, who was on him, with an expression of obedient victim.
“I was intended, I wanted to talk about your sister and your situation with each other,” said Stepan Arkadić, still struggling with unusual shinyness.
Alexey Alexandrovich smiled sadly, looked at the shurina and, without answering, approached the table, took the initial letter from him and submitted the shurina.
I am still thinking about the same thing. And that’s what I started writing, thinking I’d better say in writing and that my presence annoys her,” he said, sending a letter.
Stephan Arkadić took the letter, with a disappointing surprise looked at the blind eyes, steadily stopping on it, and began to read.
“I see that my presence attracts you.
No matter how hard it was for me to make sure, I see that it could not be otherwise.
I do not blame you, and God testifies to me that when I saw you during your illness, I decided from all my soul to forget all that was between us, and to start a new life.
I do not regret and never regret what I have done; but I wish one, your good, the good of your soul, and now I see that it has not been achieved.
Tell me yourself that it will give you true happiness and peace of your soul.
I give all your will and your sense of justice.”
Stephan Arkadić sent the letter back and with the same confusion continued to look at the uncle, without knowing what to say.
The silence was so uncomfortable for both of them that a painful sweating occurred in the lips of Stephan Arkadić while he was silent, without leaving the eye from the face of Karenin.
“This is what I wanted to say to her,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, turning back.
– Yes, yes... – said Stephan Arkadić, not able to answer, because tears approached his throat. Yes yes.
I understand you, he finally spoke.
“I want to know what she wants,” said Alexey Alexandrovich.
I'm afraid she doesn't understand her situation.
She’s not a judge, he’s not a judge, says Stepan Arkadić. It is suppressed, it is suppressed by your generosity.
If she read this letter, she will not be able to say anything, she will only lower her head.
Yes, but what in that case?
How to explain... how to know her desire?
If you allow me to say your opinion, I think it is up to you to specify the measures you find necessary to end that situation.
Do you think it needs to be stopped? He was killed by Alexey Alexandrovich. But how? - he added, making an unusual gesture with his hands in front of his eyes, - I don't see any possible output.
“In every situation there is a way out,” said Stepan Arkadić, rising and reviving. There was a time when you wanted to break down...
If you make sure now that you can’t make mutual happiness...
Happiness can be differently understood.
But I assume I agree with everything, I don’t want anything.
What is the way out of our situation?
“If you want to know my opinion,” said Stephan Arkadić with the same mild, soft smile he spoke with Anna. A good smile was so convincing that unintentionally Alexey Alexandrovich, feeling his weakness and obeying it, was ready to believe what Stefan Arkadić will say. She will never say that.
But one possible one she may wish, continued Stepan Arkadić, is the cessation of relationships and all the related memories.
In my opinion, in your position it is necessary to clarify new mutual relationships.
And these relationships can only be established by the freedom of both sides. - Divorce, - with hatred overturned Alexey Alexandrovich.
I think it is divorce.
Yes, divorce, red, repeated Stepan Arkadić. This is the most reasonable outcome in all respects for spouses in relationships like you.
What if the spouses find that life is impossible for them together?
This can always happen. Alexey Aleksandrovich hardly breathed and closed his eyes. There is only one reason: Does one of the spouses want to marry another?
If not, then it’s very simple,” said Stepan Arkadić, getting more and more free from the narrowness.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, turning out of anxiety, talked something to himself and didn’t answer anything.
Everything that seemed so simple for Stephan Arkadić, a thousand times thought by Alexey Alexandrovich.
And it all seemed to him not only not very simple, but it seemed quite impossible.
The divorce, the details of which he had already known, now seemed impossible to him, because the sense of his own dignity and respect for religion prevented him from accepting the accusation of fictitious pre-marriage and even less allowed his wife, forgiven and loved by him, to be fooled and deceived.
The divorce appeared impossible for other, even more important reasons.
What will happen to your son in case of divorce?
It was impossible to leave him with his mother. A divorced mother will have her illegal family, in which the status of the shepherd and his education will probably be bad.
Leave him with you?
He knew it would be a revenge from his side, and he didn’t want it.
But, in addition, the most impossible seemed to be the divorce for Alexey Alexandrovich because, having agreed to the divorce, he was the most losing Anna.
The word that Darya Alexandrovna said in Moscow, that when he decides to divorce, he thinks of himself, and not thinks that by this he loses her irreversibly.
And he, having linked this word with his forgiveness, with his attachment to the children, now understood it in his own way.
To agree to the divorce, to give her freedom means in his sense to take the last attachment to the life of the children he loved, and to give her the last support on the path of good and to throw her into death.
If she would be a divorced wife, he knew that she would join Wronsky, and that connection would be illegal and criminal, because the wife, according to the law of the church, cannot be married as long as the husband is alive.
“She’ll join him, and in a year or two he’ll either leave her, or she’ll get into a new relationship,” Alexey Alexandrovich thought. “And if I agree on illegal divorce, I will be guilty of her death.”
He thought about it hundreds of times and was convinced that the matter of divorce was not only not very simple, as Shurin said, but completely impossible.
He didn’t believe any word of Stepan Arkadić, he had thousands of denials on every word, but he listened to him, feeling that his words expressed the powerful brutal force that guides his life and which he must obey.
The only question is how and under what conditions you agree to make a divorce.
She doesn’t want anything, she can’t ask you, she gives everything to your generousness.
“My God!
My God! For what?” Aleksei Aleksandrovich thought, remembering the details of the divorce, in which his husband took the fault on himself, and with the same gesture as Vronsky closed, closed his face from shame with his hands.
You are excited, I understand it.
But if you think...
“And to the one who hit the right shirt, put the left, and to the shooter, give the shirt,” Alexey Alexandrovich thought.
Yes yes! - he screamed with a sharp voice, - I am ashamed, I give even my son, but - but is it not better to leave it?
But do what you want... And he, turning away from the shurin so that he could not see him, sat on a chair in the window.
He was angry, he was ashamed; but with this anger and shame he felt joy and humiliation before the height of his humility.
Stephan Arkadic was hit.
He was silent.
“Alexey Alexandrovich, believe me that she will appreciate your generosity,” he said. “But it seems that it was the will of God,” he added, saying that, he felt that it was stupid, and he hardly kept a smile on his stupidity.
Alexey Alexandrovich wanted to answer something, but tears stopped him.
I acknowledge this misfortune as a fact and I try to help her and you, - said Stepan Arkadić.
When Stephan Arkadić came out of the cousin's room, he was shocked, but that didn't prevent him from being happy that he successfully did this thing, as he was sure that Alexey Alexandrovich would not give up his words.
This pleasure was also mixed with the idea that when this is done, he will ask his wife and close acquaintances: "What is the difference between me and the governor?
The state makes a divorce, and no one is better, but I have made a divorce, and the three are better.
What is the similarity between me and the government?
When...
But I’ll find it better,” he said with a smile.
Wronsky's wound was dangerous, although it was a heartbreaking. And for a few days he was between life and death.
When he was able to speak for the first time, one Varia, the wife of his brother, was in his room.
He said, strictly looking at her, I shot myself hopelessly.
Please never talk about it and tell everyone that way.
That is too stupid!
Without answering his words, Varia swallowed over him and looked at him in the face with a joyful smile.
The eyes were light, not fever, but their expression was strict.
God’s grace! she said. Don’t it hurt you?
A little here. He pointed on the chest.
So let me link you.
He, silently pressing his wide sculptures, looked at her while she binding him.
When she finished, he said:
I’m not in the shadow; please do so that there is no talk about the fact that I shot myself intentionally.
No one speaks.
I just hope you won’t shoot desperately anymore,” she said with a questioning smile.
“It should be, I won’t, but it would be better... And he smiled darkly.
Despite these words and the smile that so scared Varya, when the inflammation passed and he began to recover, he felt that he was completely free from one part of his anger.
He did this act as if he was removing the shame and humiliation he experienced before.
He could calmly think about Alexey Alexandrovich now. He acknowledged all his generosity and no longer felt humiliated.
He also returned to his former life.
He saw the opportunity without shame to look in the eyes of people and could live guided by his habits.
One thing he could not break out of his heart, despite the fact that he was constantly struggling with that feeling, was a desperate regret that he lost it forever.
The fact that he had now, repenting his fault before his husband, had to give up her and never stand on between her and her regret and her husband, was firmly resolved in his heart; but he couldn’t throw out from his heart the regret of the loss of her love, he couldn’t wipe away in the memory of those minutes of happiness that he knew with her, which were so little appreciated to him at the time and which in all his beauty persecuted him now.
Serpukhovsky invented his appointment to Tashkent, and Vronsky without any hesitation agreed to this proposal.
But the closer the time of departure came, the harder it became for him the sacrifice he brought for what he considered to be worthy.
His wound was healed, and he had already gone, making preparations for his departure to Tashkent.
“One time to see her and then to shake, to die,” he thought and, making goodbye visits, expressed this thought to Betty.
With this embassy, Betty went to Anne and brought him a negative answer.
“He’s better,” Vronsky thought after receiving this news. “It was a weakness that would destroy my last strength.”
On the other day, Betty came to him in the morning and announced that she received through Oblonsky the positive news that Alexey Alexandrovich gives divorce and that therefore he can see her.
Not even worrying about taking Betsy away, forgetting all his decisions, not asking when it is possible, where his husband, Vronsky immediately went to Karenin.
He fled to the staircase, seeing no one and nothing, and by a quick step, barely stopping to run, he entered her room.
And without thinking and not noticing whether there is someone in the room or not, he hugged her and began to cover her face, hands and neck with kisses.
Anna was preparing for that date, thinking about what she would tell him, but she couldn’t say anything of it: his passion covered her.
She wanted to cleanse him, cleanse herself, but it was too late.
His feeling was told to her.
Her lips were throwing so that she could not say anything for a long time.
“Yes, you have dominated me, and I am yours,” she finally spoke, pressing his hand to her chest.
It should have been so! he said. As long as we are alive, it must be.
I know it now.
“It’s true,” she said, bleaching more and more and hugging his head. There is something terrible after all that has happened.
Everything will pass, everything will pass, we will be so happy!
Our love, if it could be strengthened, would be strengthened by the fact that there is something terrible in it,” he said, lifting his head and opening his strong teeth with a smile.
And she couldn’t answer without a smile—not with words, but with his beloved eyes.
She took his hand and smoothed herself with hidden clothes and cut hair.
I don’t know you with these short hair. You were so graceful.
The boy. How blind you are!
“Yes, I’m very weak,” she said, smiling. Her lips shaken again.
“We’re going to Italy, you’ll recover,” he said.
Is it possible that we are like a husband with a wife, alone, our family with you? She said, looking closely in her eyes.
I was surprised how it could have been different.
“Steve says he agrees with everything, but I can’t accept his generosity,” she said, looking thoughtfully across the face of Vronsky. I don’t want a divorce, I don’t care.
I don’t know what he’s going to do about Serena.
He could not understand how she could think and remember the son, the divorce at that moment.
Was it not the same?
“Don’t talk about it, don’t think,” he said, turning her hand into her own and trying to attract her attention; but she didn’t look at him.
“Oh, why didn’t I die, it would be better!” she said, and without crying tears flowed over both sides; but she tried to smile so that she didn’t anger him.
To give up the trap and dangerous destination in Tashkent, according to the previous concepts of Vronsky, would be shameful and impossible.
But now, without thinking for a minute, he renounced him and, noticing in the highest disapproval of his act, immediately resigned.
In a month, Alexey Alexandrovich stayed alone with his son in his apartment, and Anna and Vronsky left abroad, not getting divorce and decisively renounced him.
Part Five
The princess Scherbatskaya found that it was impossible to make a wedding before the post, which was five weeks left, since half of the given could not sleep at that time; but she could not disagree with Levin that after the post would be too late, since the old mother-in-law of the prince Scherbatskaya was very sick and could soon die, and then the sadness would suspend the wedding.
And therefore, having decided to divide the given into two parts, the large and the small given, the princess agreed to make a wedding before the post.
She decided that a small part of the gift she would prepare all now, a big exit after, and was very angry on Levine for he couldn’t answer her seriously whether or not he agreed to it or not.
This consideration was even more convenient that the young men were driving immediately after the wedding to the village where things of great donation will not be needed.
Levin continued to be all in the same state of madness in which it seemed to him that he and his happiness were the main and unique goal of all that existed, and that to think and care now he doesn’t need anything, that everything is done and will be done for him by others.
He did not even have any plans or goals for the future life; he provided the solution to others, knowing that everything would be great.
His brother Sergey Ivanovich, Stephan Arkadić and the princess led him in what he had to do.
He was totally agreeing with everything he was offered.
Brother took the money for him, the princess advised to leave Moscow after the wedding. Stepan Arkadic advised to go abroad.
He agreed to everything.
Do what you want if you have fun.
I am happy, and my happiness cannot be neither more nor less, whatever you do,” he thought.
When he gave Kitty the advice of Stepan Arkadić to travel abroad, he was very surprised that she did not agree with it, but had some of its own certain requirements regarding their future lives.
She knew that Levin had a business in the village that he loved.
She, as he saw, not only did not understand this matter, but also did not want to understand it.
It didn’t bother her, however, to consider it very important. So she knew that their house would be in the village, and wanted not to go abroad, where she would not live, but to where their house would be.
This definitely expressed intention surprised Levin. But as he didn’t care, he immediately asked Stepan Arkadić, as if it was his duty, to go to the village and arrange there everything he knew, with the taste he had so much.
“But listen,” said Stepan Arkadic to Levin once, returning from the village where he arranged everything for the arrival of the young, “Do you have any evidence that you were in spirit?
And what?
Without that you cannot get married.
Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! He screamed Levin. I didn’t say for nine years.
I did not think.
- Well! - laughing, said Stephan Arkadić, - and you call me a nihilistic!
However, it is not possible. You have to feed.
When is it?
Four days left.
Stephan Arkadic made it too.
Levin began to bread.
For Levin, as a non-believer and at the same time respecting the beliefs of other people, the presence and participation in all church rituals was very difficult.
Now, in the sensitive, mild state of spirit in which he was, this need to pretend was not only difficult to Levin, but seemed entirely impossible.
Now, in the state of his glory, his flower, he must either lie, or cushion.
He felt unable to do anything or anything.
But no matter how much he asked Stepan Arkadić, whether it is not possible to get a certificate without goat, Stepan Arkadić announced that it was impossible.
What’s worth you – two days?
He is an intelligent old man.
He will remove your teeth so that you will not notice it.
Standing at the first lunch, Levin tried to refresh in himself the youth memories of the strong religious feeling he experienced from sixteen to seventeen years.
But he immediately convinced that it was completely impossible for him.
He tried to look at all this as a meaningless empty habit, like the habit of visiting; but he felt that he could not do that at all.
Levin was in the most uncertain position with respect to religion, like most of his contemporaries.
He could not believe, and at the same time he was not firmly convinced that all this was unfair.
And therefore, being unable to believe in the significance of what he did, nor to look at it indifferently, as on an empty formality, during the whole time of this craving he felt a feeling of discomfort and shame, doing what he himself does not understand, and because, as his inner voice told him, something false and bad.
During his service, he was listening to prayers, trying to attribute to them meaning that would not differ from his views, feeling that he could not understand and should condemn them, he was trying not to listen to them, but he was engaged in his thoughts, observations and memories, which with extraordinary anger during this holy standing in the church broke in his head.
He adhered to the lunch, all night and evening rules, and on the other day, stood before the usual, without drinking tea, came to the church at eight a.m. to listen to the morning rules and confession.
There was no one in the church except a poor soldier, two elders and church servants.
A young diacon, with two sharply marked halves of the long back under a thin scratch, met him and immediately, coming to the table near the wall, began to read the rules.
As he was reading, especially with the frequent and rapid repetition of the same words: "Lord, mercy," which sounded like "forgiveness, mercy," Levin felt that his thought was closed and sealed, and that touching and choving it now should not be, and then there will be confusion, and therefore he, standing behind the diacon, continued, without listening and without entering, to think about his own.
“It’s surprisingly a lot of expressions in her hand,” he thought, remembering how they sat at the corner table yesterday.
Tell them not about what it was, as always almost at that time, and she, put her hand on the table, opened and closed her and laughed herself, looking at her movement.
He remembered how he kissed that hand and then looked at the downward traits on the pink hand.
“Yet mercy,” Levin thought, baptized, worshipping and looking at the flexible movement of the back of the worshipping diacon.
She took my hand and looked at the lines, “You have a glorious hand,” she said.
And he looked at his hand and the short hand of the diacon.
“Yes, it’s going to end soon,” he thought. “No, it seems, again at first,” he thought, listening to the prayers. - No, it ends; now he is worshipping into the earth.
It’s always before the end.”
Unseenly receiving a three-ruble paper with his hand in the plissy shell, the diacon said he would record, and, boycottly sounding new shoes on the leaves of the empty church, went to the altar.
A minute later, he looked from there and sparked Levin.
The thought that was still closed came into Levin's head, but he rushed to withdraw her.
“It’s going to be okay,” he thought and went to the ambulance.
He went into the stairs and turned to the right, and saw the priest.
The old priest, with a rare half-sitting beard, with tired good eyes, stood at the anal and scratched the shell.
Slowly worshipping Levin, he immediately began to read the usual voice of prayer.
After completing them, he worshipped the land and turned his face to Levin.
“Here Christ is invisible, receiving your confession,” he said, indicating the crucifixion. Do you believe in all that the Holy Apostolic Church teaches us? The priest continued, opening his eyes from the face of Levin and laying his hands under the epitrahyl.
“I doubted, I doubt everything,” Levin spoke with an unpleasant voice and silenced.
The priest waited a few seconds to know if he would say anything else, and, closing his eyes, said in a fast Vladimir speech:
The doubts are characterized by the weakness of mankind, but we must pray for the merciful Lord to strengthen us.
What special sins do you have? He added without the smallest interval, as if he sought not to waste time.
My main sin is doubt.
I doubt everything, and mostly I doubt it.
“The suspicion is characteristic of human weakness,” the priest repeated the same words. What do you mostly doubt?
I doubt everything.
I sometimes doubt even the existence of God, — said Levin unintentionally and frightened by the ignorance of what he said.
But the words of Levin did not seem to make any impressions on the priest.
What do we doubt the existence of God? - With a little noticeable smile, he said quickly.
Levin was silent.
What can you have a doubt about the creator when you look at his creation? The priest continued with a fast, usual speech. Who has decorated the heavens with the lights?
Who dressed the earth in its beauty?
What if there is no creator? He said, looking questionably at Levin.
Levin felt it would be uncomfortable to enter into philosophical trials with the priest, and therefore he replied only what was directly related to the question.
“I don’t know,” he said.
You don’t know?
So how do you doubt that God has created everything? The priest said with pleasant confusion.
“I don’t understand anything,” said Levin, red and feeling that his words are stupid and that they can’t be stupid in such a situation.
Pray to God and ask him.
Even the holy fathers had doubts and asked God to confirm their faith.
The devil has great power, and we should not surrender to him.
Pray to God, pray to him, pray to God, he repeated quickly.
The priest was silent for a while, as if he thought.
You, as I have heard, are going to marry the daughter of my ancestor and the son of the spiritual, Prince of Scherbatsky? He added with a smile. A beautiful virgin.
- Yes, red for the priest, answered Levin.
“Why should he ask about this on confession?” He thought.
And in response to his thought, the priest said to him:
You are going to get married, and God may reward you with descendants, right?
What kind of education can you give to your children if you do not overcome the temptation of the devil that draws you to the unbelief? He said with a gentle curvature. If you love your child, then you, as a good father, will desire no one wealth, luxury, honor to your child; you will desire his salvation, his spiritual enlightenment with the light of truth.
Not so?
What will you say to him when an innocent baby asks you, “Papa! Who has created all that brings me into this world: the earth, the water, the sun, the flowers, the grass?
Do you say to him, “I don’t know?”
You cannot ignore when the Lord God, by His great mercy, has revealed this to you.
Or your child will ask you, “What’s waiting for me in the funeral life?”
What will you say to him when you don’t know anything?
How will you answer him?
Do you give him the beauty of peace and devil?
It is bad! He said and stopped, turning his head to the side and looking at Levin with good, gentle eyes.
Levin didn’t answer anything now—not because he didn’t want to go into a dispute with the priest, but because no one asked him such questions; and when his grandchildren would ask him these questions, there would be time to think what to answer.
“You enter the time of life,” continued the priest, “when you have to choose the way and keep it. Pray to God that He may help you by His goodness and mercy, he concluded. “The Lord and our God Jesus Christ, by the grace and generosity of his human love, may forgive the child...” – And after completing the solemn prayer, the priest blessed and released him.
Returning home on that day, Levin felt a joyful feeling that the discomfort ended, and it ended so that he didn’t have to lie.
Furthermore, he had an unclear memory that what this good and sweet old man said was not as stupid as he seemed at first, and that there is something that needs to be understood.
“Naturally not now,” Levi thought, “but one day later.”
Levin, more than before, now felt that something in his soul was unclean and impure, and that he was in the same position in relation to religion, which he so clearly saw and did not love in others, and for which he blamed his friend Swiazhsky.
Spending this evening with the bride with Dolly, Levin was happy and, explaining to Stephan Arcadich the exciting state in which he was, said that he was happy, like a dog who was taught to jump through the bride and who, finally realizing, and doing what it was needed from her, lifts up and, having a tail, jumps from enthusiasm to the tables and windows.
On the day of the wedding, Levin, according to the habit (on the fulfillment of all the customs strictly insisted the princess and Darya Alexandrovna), did not see his bride and lunch at himself in the hotel with the trips accidentally gathered to him: Sergey Ivanovich, Katavasov, a fellow at the university, now a professor of natural sciences, whom, after meeting on the street, Levin stumbled to himself, and Chirikov, a shaker, a Moscow world judge, a fellow Levin on the bear hunt.
The lunch was very fun.
Sergey Ivanovich was in the best position of spirit and the originality of Katavasov.
Katavasov, feeling that his originality is appreciated and understood, praised it.
Cherykov welcomed and welcomedly supported every conversation.
- After all, - said Katavasov, according to the habit acquired at the headquarters, stretching his words, - how capable was our little friend Konstantin Dmitrych.
I am talking about those who are missing because they are not.
And he loved science at the time, after leaving the university, and had human interests; now one half of his abilities is aimed at deceiving himself, and the other is to justify that deceiving.
“I have never seen a more decisive enemy of marriage than you,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
No, I am not an enemy. I am a friend of the division of work.
People who cannot do anything must do people, and others must promote their enlightenment and happiness.
This is how I understand.
Interfering with these two crafts is the darkness of the hunters, I am not among them.
“How happy I’ll be when I know you’ll fall in love!” said Levin. Please invite me to the wedding.
I am in love already.
In the karaoke.
You know, - Levin addressed his brother, - Mikhail Semenich writes a composition about food and...
Well, don’t get confused!
It doesn’t matter what.
The fact is that I really love Karakata.
But she doesn’t prevent you from loving your wife.
She doesn’t hinder, the wife hinder.
Why then?
Here you will see.
You love hunting, you love hunting, you love hunting.
“Today Archipus was, saying that the sheep will be lost in Prudny and two bears,” Chirikov said.
You will take them without me.
“This is true,” said Sergey Ivanovich. And forgive the bear hunt, the wife will not let go.
The idea that his wife would not leave him was so pleasant to him that he was ready to give up the pleasure of seeing the bear forever.
And it’s unfortunate that these two bears will take it without you.
Do you remember the last time in Happiness?
It would be strange to hunt,” Cherykov said.
Levin didn’t want to disappoint him in the fact that something good could be anywhere without her, and therefore he didn’t say anything.
“Nederom established this habit of saying goodbye to a cold life,” Sergey Ivanovich said. No matter how happy you are, it is unfortunate for freedom.
- And acknowledge, is there this feeling, like a Gogolov married, that he wants to jump out in the oak?
Maybe it is, but it is not acknowledged. He said Katowice and wanted it loudly.
The eye is open...
Let’s go to Torah now!
One bear, you can go to the berlog.
Right, we go for 5 hours!
And here, as they want, he said, smiling, Cherykov.
“Well, God,” he smiled, said Levin, “that I can’t find in my soul that feeling of regret for my freedom!
“Yes, you have such a chaos in your heart now that you won’t find anything,” Katavasov said. If you understand a little, you will find it.
“No, I’d feel at least a little that, in addition to my feelings (he didn’t want to say love with him) and happiness, I’d still feel sorry to lose freedom...
I am the loss of freedom and joy.
It is bad!
A hopeless subject! — said Katavasov. Well, let us drink for his healing or wish him only that at least one hundred of his dreams be fulfilled.
It will be a happiness that has not been on earth.
Shortly after lunch, the guests left to be able to dress up for the wedding.
Staying alone and remembering the talks of these whispers, Levin again asked himself: Does he have in his soul the feeling of regret for his freedom that they talked about?
He smiled on that question.
“The freedom?
Why freedom?
“Happiness is only to love and to desire, to think about it with its desires, its thoughts, that is, no freedom, that is happiness.”
“But do I know her thoughts, her desires, her feelings?” Suddenly there was a voice to him.
The smile disappeared from his face, and he thought.
Suddenly I found a strange feeling on him.
He found fear and doubt, doubt in everything.
“Why does she don’t love me?
How does she come out for me just to get married?
What if she doesn’t know what she’s doing? He asked himself. She can remember and only when she marries, she will realize that she doesn’t love me and couldn’t love me.”
And the strange, worst thoughts about her began to come to him.
He jealous her to Vronsky, as a year ago, as if that evening, when he saw her with Vronsky, was yesterday.
He suspected she didn’t tell him everything.
He jumped quickly.
“No, it is not possible! He said to himself with despair. I’ll go to her, I’ll ask, I’ll say the last time: we’re free, and is it not better to stop?
Everything is better than eternal misfortune, shame, unbelief.
With despair in the heart and with evil on all the people, on himself, on her he went out of the hotel and went to her.
No one waited for him.
He put her in the rear rooms. She sat on a sandwich and arranged something with the girl, putting a lot of colorful clothes on the back of the chairs and on the floor.
Ah Ah! She screamed, saw him, and all glorified from joy. How do you, how do you (to this last day she said to him that “you”, that “you”)?
I didn’t wait!
And I understand my girl’s clothes, who...
A! It's a good thing! - he said, looking dark at the girl.
“Go, Danish, I’ll call you then,” Kitty said. What about you? She asked him, strongly saying “you,” as soon as the girl came out.
She noticed his strange face, excited and dark, and found fear on her.
The Kitty! I suffer.
I can’t suffer alone,” he said with despair in his voice, standing in front of her and praying looking in her eyes.
He had already seen on her loving true face that nothing could come out of what he intended to say, but he still needed that she had to investigate him.
I came to tell you that the time has not gone.
This can be destroyed and corrected.
I don’t understand anything.
What about you? What I’ve said a thousand times and I can’t think... that I’m not standing for you.
You could not agree to get married to me.
You think.
You have mistaken.
Think well.
You can’t love me... If... it’s better to say, he said, without looking at her. I will be unhappy.
Let everyone say what they want; everything is better than misfortune.
Everything is better now. As long as there is time...
“I don’t understand,” she replied scaredly, “that’s that you want to give up...what’s not?
Yes, if you don’t love me.
You are foolish! She screamed, reddening from the scratch. But his face was so sad that she kept her annoyance and, throwing her clothes out of the chair, moved closer to him.
What do you think? Say everything.
I think you can’t love me.
Why can you love me?
My God! What can I do? She said and was crying.
Oh what I did! He screamed and, standing in front of her on his knees, began kissing her hands.
When the princess entered the room five minutes later, she found them already completely reconciled.
Kitty not only convinced him that she loved him, but even, answering his question why she loved him, explained him why.
She told him that she loves him because she understands him all, because she knows that he must love, and that everything he loves is well.
And it seemed quite clear to him.
When the princess came to them, they sat next to them on a sandwich, sparked the clothes and disputed that Kitty wanted to give the Danish the brown dress she was in when Levin offered her, and he insisted that this dress should not be given to anyone, but to give the Danish blue.
How do you not understand?
She is a brunette, and she won’t go.
I have all this calculated.
Learning why he came, the princess was slightly angry and sent him home to dress up and not to prevent Kitty from shaking, as Charles is coming now.
“She’s not eating anything all these days, and she’s swallowed, and you’re still scattering her with your stupidities,” she told him. Clean up, clean up, dear.
Levin, guilty and troubled but calm, returned to his hotel.
His brother, Daria Alexandrovna and Stephan Arkadić, all in the toilet, were already waiting for him to bless the way.
There was a delay once. Darya Alexandrovna had to go home to take her married and wicked son, who had to take the image of the bride.
Then one car was to be sent to the shuffle, and the other, which will take Sergey Ivanovich, to be sent back.
In general, considerations, very complex, were very many.
One thing was undoubtedly that it was not to be fooled, because it was half the seventh.
Nothing came out of the blessing.
Stephan Arkadić stood in a comic-trade position next to his wife, took a picture and, telling Levin to worship in the ground, blessed him with a good and funny smile and kissed him three times; the same was done by Daria Alexandrovna and immediately rushed to ride and again confused in the plans of the crew movement.
“Well, that’s what we’ll do: you travel in our car for him, and Sergey Ivanovich already if he was so good to go and then send.
Well, I am very happy.
We will come with him now.
Things are sent? - said Stephan Arkadić.
Levin answered and told Kuzma to dress up.
A crowd of people, especially women, surrounded the church enlightened for marriage.
Those who failed to penetrate in the middle, crowded around the windows, swallowed, disputed and looked through the grid.
More than twenty cars have already been deployed by gendarmes along the street.
A police officer, ignoring the cold, stood at the entrance, shining with his mount.
The crew continuously arrived, and then the ladies in flowers with lifted shelfs, then the men, taking the hat or black hat, entered the church.
In the church itself, both lights and all the candles were burned.
The golden glow on the red background of the iconostasis, and the golden scratch of the icons, and the silver panicated both the candles, and the plates of the floor, and the coatings, and the horns above the cleros, and the stairs of the ammon, and the old black books, and the substrates, and the stichars — all were filled with light.
On the right side of the warm church, in a crowd of fracs and white gallstucks, mounders and butterflies, barhat, atlas, hair, flowers, naked shoulders and hands and high gloves, there was a distracted and vibrant speech, strangely given in the high dome.
Every time the cry of the open door was spreading, the talk in the crowd was silent, and everyone looked around, waiting to see the entering bride and bride.
But the door was already opened more than ten times, and every time it was either a delayed guest or guest who joined the circle of calls, right, or a spectator who deceived or humiliated a police officer who joined a foreign crowd, left. Both relatives and foreigners have already passed through all phases of expectation.
Initially, they thought the wives and the bride would come this minute, without attributing any meaning to this delay.
Then they began more and more to look at the door, talking about if something didn’t happen.
Then this delay became uncomfortable, and the relatives and guests tried to make it seem that they didn’t think about married and busy with their conversation.
The protodiakum, as if reminded of the value of his time, impatiently tossed, forcing the glass to stretch in the windows.
On the clears were heard the screams of the voices, the screams of the tired singers.
The priest continuously sent the shepherd, the shepherd to find out if the married did not come, and himself, in a lilous strip and a shit belt, went out more and more often to the side doors, waiting for the married.
Finally, one of the ladies, looking at the clock, said, “But it’s strange!” And all the guests came into anxiety and began to express their surprise and dissatisfaction loudly.
One of the officers went to see what happened.
Kitty at that time, long already completely ready, in a white dress, a long wave and a wing of pomarance flowers, with the planted mother and sister of Lvova stood in the hall of the sherbat house and looked in the window, stupidly waiting for more than half an hour for the news from her shofer about the arrival of the bride to the church.
Meanwhile, Levin was in the pants, but without a jersey and a crack he walked back and forward in his number, constantly hanging into the door and looking at the corridor.
But in the corridor there was no one he was waiting for, and he, with despair returning and swallowing his hands, treated the quietly smoking Stephan Arkadic.
Have you ever been in such a stupid situation? He said.
“Yes, stupid,” Stepan Arkadić confirmed, mildly smiling. But be calm, it’s coming.
No as well! Levin spoke with anger. And those foolish open jersey!
It is impossible! He told me when he looked out in front of his shirt. - And how things have been taken on the railroad! - he screamed desperately.
Then you will give me.
It would have long been so.
It’s not good to be funny...
Attention! is formed.
The thing was that when Levin needed to dress up, Kuzma, the old servant of Levin, brought a frak, a jacket and everything that needed.
— And the shirt! — screamed Levin.
- Shirt on you, - answered Kuzma with a quiet smile.
The purified Kuzma's rubas did not know to leave, and, having received the order to put it all and sweep it to Scherbatsky, from which the young people left tonight, he did so, put it all, except a crazy pair.
The jacket, wearing from the morning, was wiped and impossible with the open fashion of the jersey. To send to Sherbacki was far away.
I sent him to buy a shirt. Lakey returned: everything closed - Sunday.
They sent to Stephan Arkadic, they brought the shirt; it was impossible to be wide and short.
Finally, they sent to Sherbacki to dissolve things.
The bride was waiting in the church, and he, like a beast locked in the cage, walked through the room, looking into the corridor and with fear and despair remembering what he told Kitty and what she can now think.
Finally, the guilty Kuzma, violently translating the spirit, entered the room with a shirt.
I just stood. It was up on the slope, — said Kuzma.
Three minutes later, without looking at the clock in order not to remove the wounds, Levin was running through the corridor.
“You’re not going to help with this,” said Stepan Arkadić with a smile, hopelessly rushing for him. It is formed, it is formed, I tell you.
They have come! Here is he! Which? I ask, what is it? And she, mother, is neither alive nor dead! — they spoke in the crowd, when Levin, meeting the bride at the entrance, entered the church with her.
Stephan Arkadić told his wife the reason for the delay, and the guests, smiling, crossed each other.
Levin did not notice anything and anyone; he, without leaving his eyes, looked at his bride.
Everyone said she was very tired in those last days and was not as good as usual; but Levin did not find it.
He looked at her high hairstyle, with a long white wave and white flowers, at a high-stay gathering door, especially virginly covering the sides and opening her long neck, and a surprisingly thin belt, and it seemed to him that she was better than ever, not because these flowers, this wave, this dress drawn from Paris would add something to her beauty, but because, despite this prepared purity of dress, the expression of her sweet face, her look, her lips were all the same special expression of her innocent truth.
“I thought you wanted to flee,” she said and smiled.
So stupid that it happened to me, say wisely! He said, red, and he had to contact Sergey Ivanovich.
A good story with a shirt! - said Sergey Ivanic, climbing his head and smiling.
“Yes, yes,” Levin replied without understanding what he was talking about.
“Well, Kosta, now we have to decide,” said Stepan Arkadić with a scared look, “this is an important question. You are now able to appreciate the importance of it.
I am asked: are the burned candles burning, or the unrighteous?
The difference of ten rubles, - he bought, gathering his lips in a smile. I’ve decided, but I’m afraid that you won’t agree.
Levin realized that it was a joke, but he couldn’t smile.
So what? Unrighteous or burned? Here is the question.
Yes yes! The unrighteous.
Well, I am very happy. The question is resolved! — said Stepan Arkadic, smiling. “But how stupid people are in this situation,” he said to Chirikova, when Levin, looking disappointed at him, moved to the bride.
“Look, Kitty, first stand on the cover,” Countess Nordstone said, “it’s going. You are good! She turned to Levine.
What is not scary? — said Maria Dmitriyevna, the old aunt.
Are you not fresh?
You are blind.
The sister Kitty, Lviv, said, and, surrounding her full beautiful hands, with a smile repaired her flowers on her head.
Dolly came, wanted to say something but couldn’t speak, she cried and laughed unnaturally.
Kitty looked at everyone with the same missing eyes as Levin.
To all her speeches she could only answer with a smile of happiness, which now was so natural to her. Meanwhile, the church servants dressed up, and the priest and the diacon went out to the anal, standing in the church's prison.
The priest turned to Levin and said something. Levin did not listen to what the priest said.
“Take the bride’s hand and lead,” said Shepherd to Levin.
For a long time, Levin could not understand what they demanded from him.
For a long time he was corrected and wanted to go away—because he did not take everything with that hand or not with that hand—when he finally realized that it should be with the right hand, without changing position, to take it with the right hand.
When he finally took the bride for his hand, as it had to be, the priest went a few steps ahead of them and stopped at the anal.
A crowd of relatives and acquaintances, swallowing with speech and swallowing with slayphs, moved behind them.
Someone, turning down, repaired the bride's slide.
The church was so quiet that we heard a drop of wax falling.
The old priest, in a camillavka, with bright silver seated hair strings broken on both sides behind his ears, spread out the small old hands from under a heavy silver with a golden cross on the back of the t-shirt, picking out something from the anal.
Stephan Arkadić approached him cautiously, scratched something and, throwing Levin, went back again.
The priest burned two candles decorated with flowers, holding them on the side in the left hand, so that the wax caught from them slowly, and turned his face to the unknown.
The priest was the same who confessed Levin.
He looked up with a tired and sad look at the bride and the bride, breathed and, stretched out the right hand from under the t-shirt, blessed the bride and so on, but with a shade of cautious delicacy, placed the complicated fingers on the inclined head of Kitty.
Then he gave them candles and, taking the candle, slowly turned away from them.
“Is it true?” Lewin thought and looked at the bride.
He saw her profile somewhat above, and after a slightly noticeable movement of her lips and lips he knew that she felt his sight.
She didn’t look at it, but the high assembled gateway wrapped up, rising to her pink little ear.
He saw that the breath stopped in her chest and a small hand in a high gloves, putting a candle.
All the foolishness of the shirt, the delay, the conversation with acquaintances, relatives, their dissatisfaction, his funny position — all suddenly disappeared, and he became joyful and scary.
A beautiful crowned protodiacon in a silver shell, with the sides standing with scratched curves, boycotted forward and, by a usual gesture lifting the orar on two fingers, stopped against the priest.
“Bla-go-sl-vi, Vlad-diko!” - slowly one after the other, the waves of air flows, the celebration sounds spread.
“Blessed is our God forever, now and forever and for centuries,” the old priest answered humbly and singingly, continuing to replace something in the analogue.
And, filling the whole church from the windows to the slopes, strictly and widespreadly ascended, strengthened, stopped for a moment, and quietly melted the full accord of the invisible clergy.
They prayed, as always, for the supreme peace and salvation, for the synod, for the governor; they prayed also for the now married slaves of God, Constantine and Catherine.
“O whenever we send to them the love of perfect, peaceful and help, we pray to the Lord,” as if the whole church was breathing with the voice of the prophet.
Levin listened to the words, and they surprised him.
How did they realize that help is help? He thought, remembering all his recent fears and souls. What do I know?
What can I do in this terrible thing, he thought, without help?
I need help now.”
When the devil ended the ectany, the priest addressed the wedded with a book:
“God the eternal, the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united, and the united.
As a mercyful and loving God you eat, and we send glory to you, the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, now and forever and forever.” - "A-Amin" - an invisible cor again flooded in the air.
"The standing assembled in unity and union of love is positive," - how deeply these words are meaningful and how corresponding to what you feel at this moment! He thought Levin. “Is she feeling the same as me?”
And, looking at her, she met her eyes.
And by expressing that point of view he concluded that she understood the same as he.
But that was false; she almost did not understand the words of service and did not even listen to them during the wedding.
She couldn’t listen and understand them: there was so much one feeling that filled her soul and increased.
This feeling was the joy of the full accomplishment of what has been accomplished in her soul for a month and a half and that during all these six weeks she was pleased and suffered.
In her soul on that day, when she in her brown dress in the hall of the Arbat's house came to him in silence and gave up to him, in her soul on that day and hour was a complete break with all the past life, and a completely different, new, completely unknown life began, in reality, the old life continued.
These six weeks were the most blessed and painful time for her.
All her life, all her desires, all her hopes were concentrated on one man that was not yet understood for her, with whom something even more incomprehensible connected her than the man himself, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is.
Living an old life, she was scared of herself, of her complete irreversible indifference to all her past: to things, to habits, to the people who loved and loved her, to the angry of this indifference of her mother, to the beloved, especially in the light of the beloved gentle father.
So she was scared of this indifference, so she was glad of what led her to this indifference.
She could not think or desire anything out of life with this man; but this new life was not yet, and she could not even imagine it clearly.
There was one expectation: the fear and joy of the new and the unknown. And now here is the expectation, and the ignorance, and the regret in rejection of the previous life—all will end, and the new will begin.
This new thing could not be not terrible in its unknownness; but terrible or not terrible — it had already happened six weeks ago in her soul; now it was only sanctified what has long been done in her soul.
Returning back to the anal, the priest hardly caught Kitty's small ring and, asking Levin's hand, put his finger on the first layer.
“The slave of God Constantine is the slave of God Catherine.” And, wearing a big ring on the pink, small, weak Kitty finger, the priest spoke the same.
Several times the wedded wanted to guess what to do, and each time they were wrong, and the priest scratched them.
Finally, having done what was necessary, crossing them with the rings, he again gave Kitty the big, and Levin the small; again they were confused and twice gave the ring from hand to hand, and yet it did not come out what was required.
Dolly, Chirikov and Stephan Arkadić went forward to repair them.
There was a mixture, a scream and a smile, but the feastly-smiling expression on the faces of the weddings did not change; on the contrary, by hand, they looked more serious and feastly than before, and the smile with which Stephan Arkadić screamed, so that now everyone had his ring, unintentionally stumbled on his lips.
He felt that every smile would offend him.
"For you first created the male sex and the female, - read the priest after the change of the knees, - from you the husband and the wife are combined, in the help and in the perception of the race of man.
O Lord our God, send the truth to your inheritance and to your promise, to your servants our fathers, in every race and race you have chosen, to your servant Constantine and to your servant Catherine, and strengthen their marriage in faith, and in unity, and in truth, and in love.
Levin felt more and more that all his thoughts about marriage, his dreams about how he would organize his life, that all this was a childhood and that it was something that he had not yet understood and now is even less understood, although this is happening over him; in his chest increasingly up and up raised humiliations, and unbearable tears came out on his eyes.
In the church was all Moscow, family and acquaintances.
And during the ceremony of marriage, in the brilliant lighting of the church, in the circle of scattered women, girls and men in white clothes, clothes and clothes, the fairly silent speech, which was mainly overwhelmed by men, was not ceased, while women were absorbed by the observation of all the details of their preaching actions that were so always disturbing.
In the circle closest to the bride were her two sisters: Dolly and the oldest, quiet beauty of Lviv, who came from abroad.
What is Mary in white and black for a wedding? He said Corsun.
“With her face light, one salvation,” Drubetskaya replied. I wonder why they made a wedding tonight. This is shopping...
and more beautiful.
I also married the evening, — answered Korsunskaya and breathed, remembering how cute she was that day, how funny her husband was in love, and how now everything else.
“They say that whoever is more than ten times a shepherd, he will not marry; I wanted to be the tenth to insure myself, but the place was occupied,” said Count Sinjavin to the good princess of Charskaya, who had views on him.
Cherry answered him with a smile.
She looked at Kitty thinking about how and when she would stand with Count Blue in Kitty's position and how she would then remind him of his current joke.
Shterbatsky told the old freeline Nikolaev that he intended to wear a crown on the shignon of Kitty so that she would be happy.
“There was no need to wear a shynon,” Nikolayev replied, long determining that if the old widow she had hunted marries with her, then the wedding will be the easiest. I don’t like this fast.
Sergey Ivanovich spoke with Daria Dmitrievna, joking assured her that the habit of leaving after the wedding is spread because the newly married is always a bit conscious.
Your brother may be proud.
It is a miracle as cute.
Do you think you’re jealous?
“I’ve already experienced this, Daria Dmitriyevna,” he replied, and his face suddenly took a sad and serious expression.
Stephan Arkadić told his son his calambur about his divorce.
“We need to fix the vein,” she replied without listening to him.
“It’s a shame that she’s so stumbled,” said Countess Northston Lviv. But he is not his finger.
isn’t it true?
No, I really like him. Not because he is the future beaufrere, Lviv said. How well he keeps himself!
And it’s so hard to keep yourself well in this position – not to be funny. And he doesn’t mix, he doesn’t stretch, he sees that they’re touching.
Do you seem to have expected that?
Almost.
She always loved him.
Let’s see who of them will be on the cover first.
I advised Kitty.
- Anyway, - answered Lviv, - we are all obedient wives, this is in our race.
I was so intentionally the first with Vasil.
And you, Dolly?
Dolly stood under them, he heard them, but did not answer. She was broken.
The tears were in her eyes, and she could not say anything without crying.
She was pleased with Kitty and Levin; returning to her wedding, she looked at the bright Stepan Arkadić, forgot everything present, and remembered only her first innocent love.
She remembered not one of herself, but all the women of her loved ones and acquaintances; she remembered them in the only solemn time for them, when they, like Kitty, stood under the wing with love, hope and fear in the heart, rejecting the past and entering the mysterious future.
And she also, clean, stood in mercury flowers and wave.
And now what? “It’s strange,” she said.
Not a single sister, friends, and relatives watched all the details of the priesthood; strange women, spectators, with an exciting breath, watched, afraid of missing every movement, the expression of the face of the bride and bride, and with annoyance did not answer and often did not hear the words of indifferent men, making joke or strange comments.
What is so crying?
Or is it slowly going?
What do you like for such a young man?
Prince, what is it?
Is it a sister in the white atlas?
Well, listen to the diaphragm saying, “Be afraid of your husband.”
The miracle?
The synodal.
I asked Loki.
He says he’s lucky to go to it now.
We have a rich passion, they say.
Then they issued.
The couple is good.
- But you have disputed, Maria Vlajevna, that the carnals are carrying in the flight.
Look at the one in the puss, the messenger, they say with what choice...
Yes, and again so.
That sweet bride is like a sheep dressed!
No matter what you say, sorry to my sister.
This was said in the crowd of spectators who managed to jump through the door of the church.
When the wedding ceremony ended, the church servant postled before the analogues in the middle of the church a piece of pink silk tissue, the chore sang a crafty and complex psalm, in which the bass and the tenor turned to each other, and the priest, turning, pointed the wedded on a broken pink piece of tissue.
As often and much they both heard about the notice that whoever first climbs the cover will be the head of the family, neither Levin nor Kitty could remember it when they made these few steps. They did not hear any loud remarks and disputes about the fact that, in the sight of some, he became first, in the opinion of others, both together.
After the usual questions about their desire to marry, and whether they promised to others, and their strange answers to themselves, a new service began.
Kitty listened to the words of prayer, wanting to understand their meaning, but she couldn’t.
The feeling of celebration and light joy as the ritual was performed increasingly overfilled her soul and deprived her opportunities of attention.
They prayed “to give them the full wisdom and the fruit of the intestine for the benefit, to rejoice them with the sight of the sons and daughters.”
It was remembered that God created a wife from the edge of Adam, and "for this reason the man will leave the father and the mother and cling to the wife, there will be two in the flesh one," and that "the secret of the glow is great; they asked that God give them fertility and blessing, like Isaac and Rebecca, Joseph, Moses and Sephora, and that they may see the sons of their sons.
“All of this was wonderful,” Kitty thought, listening to these words, “all of this could not be different,” and the smile of joy, communicating unwillingly to all who looked at her, glowed on her bright face.
Insist completely! He heard the advice, when the priest wrapped on them wings, and Scherbatsky, drawing his hand in a triangular gloves, held a corner high above her head.
She laughed, she smiled.
Levin looked at her and was surprised by the joyful brightness that was on her face; and this feeling was unwillingly to him.
He was, like her, bright and fun.
They were delighted to listen to the reading of the apostolic message and the voice of the protodiac in the last verse awaited with such untolerance by the stranger audience.
It was fun to drink a flat glass of warm red wine with water, and it became even more fun when the priest, throwing out the t-shirt and taking both hands into his own, led them at the breaks of the bas, which brought out the "Isaiah likuy", around the anal.
Щербацкий and Chirikov, who supported the wombs, putting into the bride's slope, also smiling and rejoicing something, then left behind, then hit the married at the priest's stops.
The iscra of joy burning in Kitty seemed to have been to all the former in the church.
Levin seemed that both the priest and the diacon, like him, wanted to smile.
When the priest took the wings out of their heads, he read the last prayer and greeted the young people.
Levin looked at Kitty, and he never saw her so far. She was beautiful with the new glow of happiness that was on her face.
Lewin wanted to tell her something, but he didn’t know if it was over.
The priest brought him out of trouble. He smiled with his good mouth and said quietly, Kiss your wife, and you kiss your husband, and he took a candle from their hands.
Levin kissed with caution her smiling lips, gave her hand and, feeling a new, strange proximity, left the church.
He didn’t believe, he couldn’t believe that it was true. Only when their surprising and stupid views met, he believed that because he felt they were already one.
After dinner, the young people went to the village.
Vronsky and Anna have been traveling together in Europe for three months.
They travelled around Venice, Rome, and Naples and just arrived in a small Italian city where they wanted to settle for a while.
A beautiful ober-celler with a breakout that began from the neck in thick melted hair, in a frake and with a wide white busty chest shirt, with a binding brick over a round chest, placing his hands in the pockets, neglected, strictly responded to something stopped to the lord.
Hearing from the other side of the entrance the steps that went into the staircase, the Ober-Keller turned and, seeing the Russian Count occupying the best rooms in them, he respectfully pulled his hands out of the pockets and, inclined, explained that the courier was and that the deal with the rental of the palace took place.
The chairman is ready to sign the condition.
A! “I’m very happy,” said Vronsky. Home or not?
“They went out to walk, but now they’ve returned,” the clerk replied.
Vronsky removed from his head a soft with large fields of a hat and a plate of swallowing forehead and a half-hearted hair, cutting back and covering his linen.
And when he looked at the Lord who was still standing and looking at him, he wanted to pass.
“Mr. this Russian and asked about you,” said ober-kelner.
With a mixed sense of assumption that you will not leave anywhere from the acquaintances, and the desire to find some entertainment from the uniformity of his life, Vronsky again looked at the abandoned and stopped master; and at the same time the eyes of the two were bright.
I was naked!
The Wronsky!
Indeed, it was Golenićev, a companion of Vronsky at the Pashean Corps.
Golenišhev in the body belonged to the liberal party, came out of the body by a civil act and did not serve anywhere.
The friends completely divided after leaving the body and met after only one time.
At this meeting, Vronsky understood that Golenichev chose some highly intelligent liberal activity and, as a result, wanted to neglect the behavior and the title of Vronsky.
Therefore, when he met with Golenišov, Vronsky gave him that cold and proud resistance that he knew how to give people and the meaning of which was this: "You may like or don't like my way of life, but it doesn't matter to me: you must respect me if you want to know me."
Golenićev was negligently indifferent to the tone of Vronsky. This meeting would seem to have had to reveal them even more.
Now they shine and scream out of joy, knowing each other.
Vronsky didn’t expect him to be so happy with Golenićev, but he probably didn’t know how bored he was.
He forgot the unpleasant impression of the last meeting and with an open joyful face stretched his hand to the former friend.
The same expression of joy replaced the former anxious expression of Golenićev’s face.
How glad I meet you! - said Vronsky, showing his strong white teeth with a friendly smile.
And I hear: Wronsky, but who didn’t know.
Very, very pleased!
Let’s enter.
Well, what are you doing?
I have been here for the second year.
I work.
A! - With participation said Vronsky. Let’s enter.
And according to the usual habit of the Russians, instead of saying exactly in Russian what he wanted to hide from the servants, he spoke in French.
Do you know Karenina?
We travel together.
“I’m going to her,” he said in French, looking carefully in the face of Golenićev.
A!
I didn't know (although he knew it), and I replied indifferently. Have you arrived long ago? He added it.
The fourth day, - answered Vronsky, again carefully looking at the face of the companion.
“Yes, he is a decent man and looks at the matter as it should,” Vronsky said to himself, understanding the meaning of the expression of the face of Golenićev and the change of the conversation. “You can meet him with Anna, he looks like he should.”
In these three months he spent with Anna abroad, meeting with new people, Vronsky always asked himself how this new face will look at his relationship with Anna, and mostly met in men what a good understanding.
But if he was asked and asked by those who understood “how it should be”, what this understanding consisted in, and he and they would be in great difficulties.
In essence, those who understood, in the opinion of Vronsky, "as it should be" did not understand this at all, but held themselves in general, as well-examined people hold themselves regarding all complex and unresolved issues, from all sides of life, - held themselves decent, avoiding suggestions and unpleasant questions.
They seemed that they fully understand the meaning and meaning of the situation, recognize and even approve it, but they consider it inappropriate and inexpensive to explain all this.
Vronsky now realized that Golenićev was one of those, and therefore he was twice happy with him. Indeed, Golenichev kept himself with Karenina when he was introduced to her, so as soon as Vronsky could wish it.
He obviously, without the least effort, avoided all the conversations that could lead to discomfort.
He did not know before Anna and was impressed by her beauty and even more by the simplicity with which she took her position.
She turned red when Vronsky introduced Golenichev, and this child's paint, covering her open and beautiful face, greatly liked him.
But he liked that she immediately, how intentionally, so that there could not be misunderstandings with a stranger, called Vronsky simply Alexey and said that they moved with him to a newly rented house, which here is called a palace.
This straightforward and simple attitude to his situation liked Goliath.
Looking at the kind and joyful energetic manner of Anna, knowing Alexey Alexandrovich and Vronsky, Golenichev seemed that he fully understood her.
It seemed to him that he understood what she hadn’t understood at all: exactly how she could, by doing his husband’s misfortune, by leaving him and his son, and by losing good glory, feel energically, joyful and happy.
- He is in the guide, - said Golenichev about the palace that was hired by Vronsky. There is a beautiful Tintoretto.
from his last era.
You know what? The weather is beautiful, let’s go there, let’s look again,” said Vronsky, turning to Anna.
I'm glad I'm going to wear my hat now.
Do you say it is hot? She said, staying at the door and looking questionably at Vronsky. And again a bright colour covered her face.
Wronsky understood from her point of view that she didn’t know what relationship he wanted to be with Golenišov, and that she was afraid if she behaved as he would.
He looked at her with a gentle, long-looking look.
“No, not very much,” he said.
And it seemed to her that she understood everything, most importantly that he was pleased with her; and, smiling to him, she quickly walked out of the door.
The friends looked at each other, and in the faces of the two there was a confusion, as if Golenichev, obviously in love with her, wanted something—be to say about her and didn’t find anything, and Vronsky wanted and feared the same.
- So, how, - Wronsky started to start some conversation. So you settled here?
Do you do everything the same? He continued, remembering that he was told that Golenichev wrote something...
- Yes, I write the second part of "Two Begins," - said Golenichev, exploding from the pleasure of this question, - that is, to be accurate, I don't write yet, but I prepare, I collect materials.
It will be much broader and will cover almost all questions.
We, in Russia, don’t want to understand that we are the heirs of Byzantine – he started a long, hot explanation.
Wronsky was unpleasant at first because he didn't know the first article about "Two Beginnings" which the author told him as something known.
But then, when Golenichev began to expose his thoughts and Vronsky could follow him, then, without knowing the "Two started", he did not listen to him without interest, as Golenichev spoke well.
But Vronsky was surprised and embarrassed by the irritated excitement with which Golenichev talked about his subject.
The further he spoke, the more his eyes were burned, the faster he opposed supposed opponents, and the more anxious and insulting the expression of his face became.
Remembering Golenichev as a poor, alive, kind and noble boy, always the first student in the body, Vronsky could not understand the causes of this irritation and did not approve him.
In particular, he didn’t like the fact that Golenichev, a man of a good circle, stood on one board with some scripts that irritated him, and was angry on them.
Was it worth it?
It didn’t like Vronsky, but, despite that, he felt that Golenićev was unhappy, and he was sad for him.
Unhappiness, almost mind-interference, was visible in this moving, pretty beautiful face, while he, not even noticing the exit of Anna, continued to express his thoughts quickly and warmly.
When Anna came out in a hat and a coat and, by the fast movement of the beautiful hand playing a coat, stopped under it, Vronsky with a feeling of relief turned away from the strictly striking eyes of Golenišhev and with a new love looked at his beautiful, full of life and joy friend.
Golianishchev was hard to remember and the first time was disturbed and dark, but Anna, gently placed to everyone (as she was at that time), soon refreshed him with her simple and joyful treatment.
Looking for different subjects of the conversation, she led him to a painting, about which he talked very well, and listened to him carefully.
They came on foot to the rented house and looked at it.
“I’m very happy to be alone,” said Anna Golenichev when they had already returned. Alexey will have a good atelier.
You must take this room, — she said to Vronsky in Russian and speaking to him you, since she already understood that Golenichev in their isolation will become a close man and that it is not necessary to hide before him.
Are you writing? - said Golenićev, quickly turning to Vronsky.
“Yes, I’ve been working for a long time and now I’ve started a little,” Wronsky said, red.
“He has a great talent,” Anna said with a happy smile. I am not a judge!
But the judges who knew the same said.
In this first period of her liberation and rapid recovery, Anna felt unforgivably happy and full of the joy of life.
The memory of her husband’s misfortune did not poison her happiness.
This memory, on the one hand, was too terrible to think about it. On the other hand, her husband’s misfortune gave her too much happiness to regret.
Remembrance of everything that happened to her after the illness: reconciliation with her husband, breakdown, news of the wound of Vronsky, his appearance, preparation for divorce, leaving her husband’s house, saying goodbye to her son – all this seemed to her a hot dream from which she woke up alone with Vronsky abroad.
The remembrance of the evil caused by the husband raised in it a feeling similar to a hatred and similar to the one that would have been experienced by the sinking man who took away from himself the man who was ingested in it.
The man drowned. Of course, it was bad, but it was the only rescue, and it is better not to remember these terrible details.
One calming consideration of her action came to her then at the first minute of the break, and when she remembered all that had passed, she remembered that one consideration.
“I’ve inevitably done this man’s misfortune,” she thought, “but I don’t want to take advantage of that misfortune; I also suffer and will suffer: I am deprived of what I’ve most appreciated, I am deprived of an honest name and a son.
I’ve done a bad thing and therefore I don’t want happiness, I don’t want divorce and I’ll suffer from shame and divorce with my son.”
But no matter how sincerely Anna wanted to suffer, she did not suffer.
There was no shame.
With the tact that both had so much, they abroad, escaping the Russian women, never put themselves in a false position and everywhere met people who pretended that they fully understood their mutual position much better than they themselves understood it.
Divorce with the son she loved, and she didn’t torture her the first time.
The girl, his child, was so cute and so attached to Anna since she was alone that Anna rarely remembered her son.
The need for life, increased by recovery, was so strong and the conditions of life were so new and pleasant that Anna felt unforgivably happy.
The more she knew Wronsky, the more she loved him.
She loved him for himself and for his love for her.
His full possession was always pleased with him.
His proximity was always pleasant.
All the traits of his character, which she knew more and more, were inexpressively gentle for her.
His atmosphere, changing into a state dress, was attractive to her as to a young lover.
In everything he said, thought, and did, she saw something noble and elevated.
Her admiration before him often scared her the same: she was looking for and couldn’t find anything unbeautiful in it.
He did not dare to show him the consciousness of his weakness before him.
She seemed that he, knowing this, could rather love her; and she was not so afraid of anything now, though she had no reason to lose his love.
But she could not be without being grateful to him for his attitude to her and not show how she appreciates it.
He, in her opinion, had such a certain call to state activities, in which he had to play a visible role, he sacrificed ambition for her, never showing the smallest regret.
He was, more than before, loving and respectful to her, and the thought that she would never feel the discomfort of her situation, did not leave him for a minute.
He, such a courageous man, not only never contradicted her, but had no will, and seemed to be just busy how to warn her desires.
And she couldn’t disappoint it, although this tension of his attention to her, that atmosphere of concern that he surrounded her, sometimes attracted her.
In the meantime, Wronsky, despite the full realization of what he wanted so long, was not quite happy.
He soon felt that the fulfillment of his desire brought him only a sand from the mountain of pleasure that he expected.
This accomplishment showed him the eternal mistake that people make, imagining the happiness by the accomplishment of the desire.
The first time after he joined her and dressed a state dress, he felt all the beauty of freedom, which he did not know before, and freedom of love, and was pleased, but not long.
He soon felt that in his soul raised the desires, the desire.
Regardless of his will, he began to catch for every past caprice, taking it as a desire and a goal.
Sixteen hours of the day had to be done, because they lived abroad in complete freedom, beyond the circle of the conditions of social life that took the time in St. Petersburg.
The pleasures of the cold life, which in the previous trips abroad occupied Vronsky, could not be thought, as one attempt of this kind produced an unexpected and incompatible late dinner with acquainted disappointment in Anne.
Relations with the local and Russian society, in the uncertainty of their situation, was also impossible to have.
The observation of the sights, not to say that everything has already been seen, did not have for him, as for the Russian and intelligent man, the unexplicable significance that the English are able to attribute to this matter.
And as the hungry animal catches every subject, hoping to find food in it, so Wronsky completely unconsciously catches it for politics, it for new books, it for paintings.
Since he had the ability to paint, and since he, unknowing where to spend his money, began to collect scripts, he stopped painting, began to engage in it and placed in it the unemployed stock of desires that demanded satisfaction.
He had the ability to understand the art and correctly, with taste to imitate the art, and he thought that he had the same thing he needed for the artist, and after a long time wondering what kind of painting he would choose: religious, historical, or realistic, he began to write.
He understood all kinds and could inspire both of them and others; but he could not imagine that it could be unknown what kinds of painting are, and inspire himself directly by what is in the soul, no matter whether what he would write would belong to any known kind.
Since he did not know this and was inspired not directly by life, but in the middle, by life, which was already embodied by art, he was inspired very quickly and easily, and so quickly and easily achieved that what he wrote was very similar to the genre he wanted to imitate.
More than all the other generations he liked French, gracious and impressive, and in this way he began to write the portrait of Anna in an Italian costume, and this portrait seemed to him and everyone who saw him, very successful.
The old, shrinked palace with high stained ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with mosaic floors, with heavy yellow shrink gardens on high windows, vases on consoles and fireworks, with cutting doors and with dark halls, shrinked paintings—this palace, after they moved into it, with its own appearance supported in Vronsky the pleasant misconception that he was not as a Russian monster, an unemployed emperor, as an enlightened amateur and the protector of art, and himself — a modest artist, rejected from the light, the bonds, the freedom for the beloved woman.
Wronsky's chosen role with the move to the palace succeeded entirely, and when he met through Golenichev with some interesting persons, the first time he was calm.
He wrote under the guidance of an Italian professor of painting etudy from nature and engaged in the medieval Italian life.
The medieval Italian life in recent times so flattered Vronsky that he even had a hat and a plate through his shoulder to wear the medievals, which went very much to him.
“And we are alive and we don’t know anything,” Wronsky once said to the Golenichev who came to them in the morning. Have you seen the picture of Mikhailov? He said, giving him the newly received Russian newspaper in the morning and pointing to an article about the Russian artist who lived in the same city and finished the painting, which has long been rumored and which was bought in advance.
The article appealed to the government and the Academy for the fact that the remarkable artist was deprived of any encouragement and assistance.
— I saw, — answered Goliath. Of course, it is not deprived of gifts, but a completely false direction.
All the same Ivanovsky-Strausovsky-Renovsky attitude to Christ and religious painting.
What is the picture? I asked Anna.
Christ before Pilate.
Christ is represented by the Jews with all the realism of the new school.
And, asking about the content of the painting mentioned on one of his favorite themes, Goliath began to expose:
I don’t understand how they can make such a grave mistake.
Christ has already a certain embodiment in the art of the great elders. It has happened, if they want to represent not a god, but a revolutionary or a wise man, then let Socrates, Franklin, Charlotte Corde be taken from history, but not Christ.
They take the same face that cannot be taken for art, and then...
What is true that this Mikhail is in such poverty? - asked Vronsky, thinking that he, as a Russian mesenate, regardless of whether his painting is good or bad, should help the artist.
Unfortunately not.
He is a wonderful portraitist.
Have you seen his portrait of Vasilchikova?
But he doesn’t seem to want to write portraits anymore, and that’s why,, it’s exactly what he needs.
I say that...
Can he not be asked to make a portrait of Anna Arkadievna? Wronsky said.
Why my? And Anna said. I don’t want any portrait.
Annie (this is how she called her girl).
Here is she, she added, looking in the window to the beautiful Italian nurse who brought the child to the garden, and immediately unnoticedly looking at Vronsky.
The beauty of the pet, with which Vronsky wrote his head for his painting, was the only secret horror in Anna's life.
Wronsky, writing with her, loved her beauty and medievality, and Anna didn’t dare to admit that she was afraid to jealous this pet, and that’s why she laughed and balloed both her and her little son.
Vronsky also looked in the window and in the eyes of Anna, and immediately turned to Golenićev, said:
Do you know the ego of Mikhailov?
I met him.
But he is wonderful and without any education.
You know, one of these wild new people who are now frequently met; you know, from those free-thinkers who are d'emblee raised in the concepts of unbelief, denial, and materialism.
Before, there was, — said Golenichev, not noticing or not wishing to notice that both Anne and Vronsky wanted to speak — before, there was, a free-thinker was a man who grew up in the concepts of religion, law, morality and himself by struggle and effort came to free-think; but now it is a new kind of self-born free-thinkers who grow up and not even heard that there were the laws of morality, religion that were authorities, and who grow directly in the concepts of denial of everything, that is, wild.
He is such.
He seems to be a son of a Moscow Chamber-Lakey and has not received any education.
When he entered the Academy and made himself a reputation, he, as a foolish person, wanted to educate.
And he turned to what he thought was a source of education, to the magazines.
And you understand, in the old age, the man who wanted to form, let’s put the French, would begin to study all the classics: both theologists, and tragics, and historians, and philosophers, and, you understand, all the intellectual work that would be in front of him.
But we now have it directly got to negative literature, learned very quickly the whole extract of the science of negative, and ready.
And little of that: twenty years ago he would have found in this literature signs of the struggle against authorities, with the sights of the centuries, he would have understood from this struggle that there was something else; but now he directly falls into a one in which the ancient views are not even contested, but directly say: nothing, evolution, selection, struggle for existence — and all.
I in my article...
"You know what," said Anna, who has long been carefully looking at Vronsky and knowing that Vronsky was not interested in the education of this artist, but was only thinking of helping him and ordering him a portrait. You know what? She strongly overturned the talked Goliath. Go to him!
Goliath remembered and willingly agreed. But since the artist lived in a distant neighborhood, he decided to take a wheelchair.
A hour later, Anna next to Golenišov and with Vronsky on the front place, the wheels arrived to the new beautiful house in the remote neighborhood.
Knowing from the wife of the palace that came to them that Mikhailov is leaving to his studio, but that he is now in his apartment in two steps, they sent her to him with their cards, asking for permission to see his pictures.
Artist Mikhailov, as always, was behind the work, when the cards of Count Vronsky and Golenichev were brought to him.
The morning he worked in a studio on a big painting.
When he came to himself, he was angry on his wife because she didn’t know how to deal with the owner who demanded money.
I told you twenty times, don’t go into the explanation.
You’re so stupid, and if you begin to explain in Italian, you’ll get a triple stupid,” he told her after a long dispute.
Don’t start, I’m not guilty.
If I had money...
Leave me in peace for the sake of God. He screamed with tears in the voice of Mikhailov and, closing his ears, went to his working room behind the wall and closed the door.
“Untouched!” He said to himself, sitting at the table and, uncovering the folder, immediately with a special heat accepted the begun painting.
He never worked with such heat and success as when his life went bad, and especially when he clashed with his wife.
“Ah! I would fail somewhere!” He thought, continuing to work.
He made a painting for the figure of a man in an attack of anger.
The painting was made before; but he was unhappy with it.
“No, he was better...
Where is he?”
He went to his wife and, turning down, without looking at her, asked the older girl where the paper he gave them.
The paper with the thrown drawing was found, but was packed and buried with stearin.
He still took the painting, placed it to himself on the table and, moving away and touching, began to look at it.
Suddenly he smiled and gladly swallowed his hands.
- Yes, yes! - he spoke and immediately, taking the pencil, began to draw quickly.
The fifth stearin gave a man a new position.
He painted this new position, I suddenly remembered him with a remarkable submarine the energetic face of the merchant from whom he took cigarettes, and he was my face, this submarine painted the man.
He laughed by joy. The figure suddenly from the dead, the invented became alive and that could not be changed.
This figure lived and was clearly and undoubtedly defined.
It was possible to correct the drawing according to the requirements of this figure, it was possible and should even be otherwise to lay down the legs, completely change the position of the left hand, throw off the hair.
But by making these amendments, he didn’t change the figure, but only rejected what hidden the figure.
He seemed to remove from it the cover from which it was not all visible; every new feature only more expressed the whole figure in all its energetic strength, such as it suddenly appeared to him from the stearin-produced spot.
He carefully finished the figure when the cards were brought to him.
Now and now!
He went to his wife.
“Well, Sasha, don’t be angry!” he said to her, with a gentle and gentle smile. You were guilty. I was guilty.
I will arrange everything. And when he agreed with his wife, he wore an olive with a brushed shirt and a hat and went to the studio.
The successful figure was forgotten.
Now he was delighted and excited to visit his studio by these important Russians who came in the wheel.
About his painting, the one that was now on his molbert, he had one judgment in the depths of his soul: that no one had ever written such a painting.
He did not think that his painting would be better than all of the Rafael, but he knew that what he wanted to transmit and transmit in that painting, no one would ever transmit.
He knew this firmly and knew it for a long time since he began to write it; but the judgments of people, whatever they were, were still of great importance to him, and to the depths of his soul, they worried him.
Every comment, the least, showing that judges see at least a small part of what he saw in this picture, to the depths of the soul worried him.
He always attributed to his judges the depth of understanding more than that he had, and he always expected from them something that he himself did not see in his picture. And often in the judgments of the spectators, he seemed to find it.
He approached a quick step to his studio door, and, despite his excitement, the soft lighting of the figure of Anna, who was standing in the shadow of the entrance and listening hotly to what Golenichev said to her and at the same time, obviously, wanted to look at the appropriate artist, shocked him.
He himself did not notice how he, coming to them, captured and swallowed that impression, as well as the shell of the buyer who sold the cigarette, and hid him somewhere where he would take it out when needed.
Visitors, disappointed by the story of Golenićev about the artist, were even more disappointed by his appearance.
Middle-growth, thick, with a helmet walk, Mikhailov, in his brown hat, olive jacket and in narrow pants, while for a long time wearing wide, especially the usuality of his wide face and the combination of the expression of the slave and the desire to observe his dignity, made an unpleasant impression.
“Please humble,” he said, trying to have an indifferent appearance, and, entering the seed, he got the key from the pocket and opened the door.
In the studio, the artist Mikhailov again looked at the guests and noted in his imagination the expression of the face of Vronsky, especially his sculptures.
Despite the fact that his artistic sense continued to work, collecting material, despite the fact that he felt more and more excited about the minute of judgment about his work, he quickly and thinly from the unnoticable signs formed the idea of these three persons.
He was a Russian.
Mikhailov didn’t remember his name or where he met him and what he talked to him. He only remembered his face, as he remembered all the faces he ever saw, but he also remembered that it was one of the persons placed in his imagination in a huge division of false-significant and poor in expression.
Big hair and a very open forehead gave an external significance to the face, in which there was a small child's anxious expression focused on the narrow carrier.
Vronsky and Karenina, according to Mikhailov, should have been noble and wealthy Russians, who don’t understand anything in art, like all the wealthy Russians, but who have been admired by lovers and appreciators.
“Well, they’ve already looked at all the old and now they’re traveling the new studio, the German charlatan and the foolish prefaelite of the English, and they’ve come to me only for full vision,” he thought.
He knew very well the way of diletants (the smarter they were, the worse) to look at the studios of modern artists only in order to have the right to say that art has fallen and that the more you look at the new, the more you see how imitated the great ancient masters remained.
He was waiting for all this, he saw all this in their faces, he saw in the indifferent negligence with which they talked to each other, he looked at the models and the busts, and freely walked, waiting for him to open the picture.
But, despite this, while he turned his ethudes, lifted the stores and scratched the plate, he felt a strong excitement, and more that, despite the fact that all the noble and rich Russians had to be livestock and foolish in his concept, both Vronsky and especially Anna liked him.
Is it not pleasant? He said, with a helmet walk going to the side and pointing to the picture. This is the warning of Pilate.
Matthew Chapter XXVII, — he said, feeling that his lips begin to tremble from anxiety. He left and stood behind them.
In those few seconds, during which visitors silently looked at the picture, Mikhailov also looked at it, and looked with an indifferent, strange eye.
In these few seconds he believed that the highest, most just judgment would be judged by them, just those visitors he so denied a minute ago.
He forgot all that he thought about his painting before, in the three years when he wrote it; he forgot all those merits that were undoubted to him; he saw the painting with an indifferent, strange, new look, and he saw nothing good in it.
He saw on the first plan the annoying face of Pilate and the quiet face of Christ, and on the second plan the figure of Pilate servants and looking into what was happening, the face of John.
Every person, with such a search, with such errors, with the corrections that grew up in it with its special character, every person that brought him so many torture and joy, and all these faces, so many times moved to observe the common, all the shades of colour and tones, with such difficulty achieved, all this together now, looking through their eyes, seemed to him a misery, a thousand times repeated.
His most precious face, the face of Christ, the center of the picture, which gave him such enthusiasm in his discovery, all was lost for him when he looked at the picture with their eyes.
He saw the well-written (and not even well-written) repetition of those endless Christians of Tizian, Rafael, Rubens and the same warriors and Pilate.
All this was gone, poor and old and even badly written—pest and weak.
They will be right, saying obsessive phrases in the presence of the artist and regret him and laughing on him when they stay alone.
It became too hard for him that silence (although it lasted not more than a minute).
To interrupt him and show that he is not excited, he, having made an effort on himself, turned to Golenićev.
“I seemed to have a pleasure to meet,” he told him, looking anxiously at Anna and at Vronsky, so that he could not break any traits from the expression of their faces.
How well! We saw Rossi, remember, on that evening, where this Italian barbecue - the new Rachel - declared, Golenichev freely spoke, without the smallest regret, taking his eyes away from the painting and addressing the artist.
Noting, however, that Mikhailov is waiting for judgment on the picture, he said:
Your picture has been very moving since I last saw it. And then, and now, I am unusually impressed by the figure of Pilate.
This is how you understand this man, a good, glorious little, but an official to the depths of the soul, who does not know what he is doing.
But I think...
All the moving face of Mikhailov suddenly glowed: the eyes glowed.
He wanted to say something, but couldn’t speak out of anxiety and pretended he was refusing.
No matter how low he appreciated the ability to understand the art of Golenishchev, no matter how fair the commentary of the faithful expression of Pilate’s face as an official was, no matter how offensive it could seem to him the first commentary of such a little commentary, while no mention of the most important, Mikhailov was admired of this commentary.
He himself thought about the figure of Pilate the same as Golenichev said.
The fact that this consideration was one of the millions of other considerations, which, as Mikhailov firmly knew it, would all be true, did not diminish for him the importance of Golenićev’s observation.
He loved Golenichev for this comment and from the state of disappointment suddenly passed to enthusiasm.
At the same time, the whole picture lived him in front of him with all the inexplicable complexity of all the living.
Mikhailov again tried to say that he understood Pilate; but his lips trembled and he couldn’t speak.
Vronsky and Anna also said something with the quiet voice, which, in part not to offend the artist, in part not to say a loud stupidity, which is so easy to say, talking about art, is usually spoken on the paintings exhibitions.
Mikhailov seemed that the picture also impressed them. He approached them.
What a wonderful expression of Christ! And Anna said.
Of everything she saw, she liked this expression most, and she felt it was the center of the painting, and so the praise of it would be pleasant to the artist. He seems to be sorry for Pilate.
This was once again one of the millions of true considerations that could be found in his picture and in the figure of Christ.
She said she was sorry for Pilate.
The expression of Christ must also be an expression of regret, because it has an expression of love, unterrestrial calmness, willingness to die, and consciousness of speech.
Of course, there is the expression of the official in Pilate and the regret in Christ, since one is the personification of the flesh and the other is the spiritual life.
All this and much more blinked in the minds of Mikhailov. And again his face glowed with enthusiasm.
- Yes, and how this figure is made, how much air.
It is possible to turn away, — said Golenichev, clearly by this comment showing that he does not approve the contents and thoughts of the figure.
— Yes, a wonderful skill! — said Vronsky. How these figures in the background are distinguished!
“This is the technique,” he said, addressing Golenichev and this indicating the former conversation between them that Vronsky was desperate to purchase this technique.
Yes, yes, it is amazing! confirmed by Goliath and Anna.
Despite the exciting state in which he was, the notice of the technique was painfully scratched on the heart of Mikhailov, and he, looking angry at Vronsky, suddenly swallowed.
He often heard this word technique and definitely didn’t understand what it was understood.
He knew that under this word they understood the mechanical ability to write and draw, completely independent of the content.
He often noticed, as in the true praise, that the technique was opposed to the inner dignity, as if it was possible to write well what was bad.
He knew that there had to be a lot of attention and caution so that, by removing the cover, not to damage the work itself, and to remove all the cover; but the art of writing, the technique there was no.
If a little child or his cook also opened what he saw, then she would be able to radiate what she sees.
And the most experienced and skilled painter-engineer with one mechanical ability could not write anything if he had not opened before the boundaries of content.
In addition, he saw that if we were talking about the technique, he could not be praised for it.
In all that he wrote and wrote, he saw his eye-cutting shortcomings arising from the negligence with which he was covered, and which he was no longer able to fix without destroying the whole work.
And on almost all the figures and faces he saw the remains of non-completely drawn roofs that broke the picture.
- One thing you can say, if you allow to make this comment... - noted Golenićev.
“Oh, I’m very happy and I’ll ask you,” said Mikhailov, smiling.
It is that he has a god, not a god.
I know that you wanted it.
“I couldn’t write that Christ I don’t have in my heart,” Mikhailov said darkly.
Yes, but in this case, if you allow your thought to be said...
Your picture is so good that my comment cannot harm it, and then it is my personal opinion. You have that different.
The motivation of another. Let’s take Ivanova.
I believe that if Christ was reduced to the degree of a historical person, it would be better for Ivanov to choose another historical topic, fresh, untouched.
But if this is the greatest subject that is presented to art?
If you search, you will find others.
But the thing is that art does not tolerate disputes and discussions.
And in the image of Ivanov for the believer and for the unbeliever is the question: is God God or not God? It destroys the unity of impression.
Why not?
I think that for educated people, — said Mikhailov, — the dispute can no longer exist.
Golenišov did not agree with this and, holding his first thought of the unity of the impression needed for art, broke Mikhailov.
Mikhailov was worried, but he could not say anything to defend his mind.
Anna and Vronsky have long been overlooking, regreting the intelligent speech of their friend, and, finally, Vronsky passed, without waiting for the owner, to another, small picture.
What a beauty, what a beauty!
The miracle!
What a good thing! they spoke in one voice.
“What did they like so much?” I thought of Mikhail. He forgot that picture, written three years ago.
He forgot all the suffering and enthusiasm he experienced with this painting, when it took him one day and night for several months, forgot how he always forgot the finished paintings.
He didn’t even like to look at it and showed it just because he was waiting for a British who wanted to buy it.
“It’s so, etud old,” he said.
How good! - said Golenićev, also, obviously, sincere falling under the beauty of the picture.
Two boys in the shadow of the rocket hunted fish.
One, the elderly, had just thrown the hole and carefully pulled the swim out of the cage, all absorbed by this work; the other, the younger, was lying on the grass, covering the swollen white head on his hands, and looked at the water with thoughtful blue eyes.
What did he think about?
The admiration of this his painting shovelled in Mikhail's previous excitement, but he was afraid and didn't like this holy feeling to the past, and therefore, although he was happy with these praises, he wanted to draw the visitors to the third painting.
But Vronsky asked if the picture was not sold.
For Mikhailov now, excited by visitors, the talk about the monetary affairs was very unpleasant.
“They’ve been placed for sale,” he replied, trembling.
When the visitors left, Mikhailov sat against the picture of Pilate and Christ and in his mind repeated what was said, and although not said, but supposedly by these visitors.
And strange: what had so much weight for him, when they were here and when he mentally moved to their point of view, suddenly lost all meaning for him.
He began to look at his painting with all his full artistic views and came into that state of confidence in perfection and therefore in the significance of his painting that he needed to exclude all the other interests of the tension in which one he could work.
The foot of Christ was not that.
He took the palette and started working.
Riding his foot, he constantly looked at the figure of John on the background, which the visitors did not notice, but which he knew was the top of perfection.
Finishing his foot, he wanted to take this figure, but felt too excited for it.
He couldn’t work the same way when he was cold, as when he was too soft and he saw everything too much.
There was only one step in this transition from the cold to the inspiration on which work was possible.
Now he was too excited. He wanted to close the painting, but he stopped and, holding his hand on the plate, gladly smiling, long looked at the figure of John.
Finally, as if sadly breaking down, he fell down and, tired but happy, went to himself.
Vronsky, Anna and Goleniechev, returning home, were alive and fun.
They talked about Mikhail and his paintings.
The word talent under which they understood the inherent, almost physical ability, independent of mind and heart, and to which they wanted to call everything that experienced was an artist, was frequently found in their conversation, since it was necessary for them to call what they had no idea of but wanted to speak.
They said that in talent he cannot be rejected, but that his talent could not develop from the lack of education — the general misfortune of our Russian artists.
But the picture of the boys burned in their memory, and no, they returned to it. What a beauty!
How it succeeded and how easy it was!
He does not understand how good it is.
Yes, you shouldn’t miss it and buy it,” Wronsky said.
XIII
Mikhailov sold to Vronsky his picture and agreed to make a portrait of Anna.
On the appointed day he came and started his work.
The portrait of the fifth session impressed everyone, especially Vronsky, not only with a similarity, but also with a special beauty.
It was strange how Mikhailov could find that special beauty.
“It was necessary to know and love her as I loved to find that sweetest expression of her soul,” Vronsky thought, although he only knew that sweetest expression of her soul on that portrait.
But the expression was so true that he and others seemed that they knew him for a long time.
“How long I was fighting and didn’t do anything,” he said about his portrait, “and he looked and wrote.
That’s what technology means.
- This will come, - comforted his Holenishchev, in whose sense Vronsky had a talent and, most importantly, an education that gives an elevated look at the art.
The conviction of Golenichev in the talent of Vronsky was supported by the fact that he needed the sympathy and praise of Vronsky for his articles and thoughts, and he felt that praise and support should be mutual.
In a stranger house and especially in the palace, Vronsky Mikhailov was a completely different person than he was in the studio.
He was unpleasantly respected, as if he was afraid of getting closer to people he did not respect.
He called Vronsky your brightness, and never, despite the invitations of Anna and Vronsky, he stayed for lunch and did not come otherwise than for sessions.
Anna was more than to others, loving him and grateful for her portrait.
Vronsky was more than attentive to him and obviously interested in the artist’s judgment of his painting.
Holenishchev did not miss the opportunity to introduce Mikhailov real concepts of art.
But Mikhailov remained equally cold to everyone.
Anna felt in his sight that he loved to look at her; but he avoided talking to her.
At the talks of Vronsky about his painting he persistently silenced and also persistently silenced when the painting of Vronsky was shown to him, and, obviously, he was enthusiastic about the talks of Golenićev and did not object to him.
In general, Mikhailov was very unpleasant with his disturbed and unpleasant, as hostile, attitude when they knew him closer. And they were happy when the sessions ended, a beautiful portrait remained in their hands, and he stopped walking.
Holenichev first expressed the idea that everyone had, that Mikhailov was simply jealous of Vronsky.
- Let's put, he's not jealous, because he has a talent: but he's annoying that a courtyard and rich man, yet the county (which they all hate it), without a special effort does the same, if not better than he who dedicated to it all his life.
The most important is the education he does not have.
Vronsky defended Mikhailov, but in the depth of his soul he believed that because, according to his concept, the man of another, the lower world had to be jealous.
The portrait of Anna, the same and written by him and Mikhailov, should be to show the difference that was between him and Mikhailov; but he did not see it.
He just after Mikhailov stopped writing his portrait of Anna, determining that it was now unnecessary.
He continued his medieval life.
And he himself, and Goleniechev, and especially Anna, found that she was very good because she was much more similar to the famous paintings than the painting of Mikhailov.
Mikhailov, in the meantime, despite the fact that the portrait of Anna very fascinated him, was even more happy than they, when the sessions ended and he had no longer to listen to the talks of Golenichev about art and can be forgotten about the painting of Vronsky.
He knew that Wronsky could not be banned from painting; he knew that he and all the diletants had the full right to write what they wanted, but he was unpleasant.
You can’t prohibit a man from making a big doll of wax and kissing it.
But if this man had come with a doll and sat in front of a loved one and began to lack his doll, as a loved one lacks the one he loves, it would be unpleasant to the loved one.
The same unpleasant feeling Mikhailov experienced when he saw the painting of Vronsky; he was both funny, and annoying, and sad, and offensive.
Vronsky's passion for painting and the Middle Ages lasted shortly.
He had so much taste for painting that he could not finish his painting.
The picture stopped. He confusedly felt that her shortcomings, little noticeable at the beginning, would be impressive if he would continue.
It happened to him the same as to Golenišov, who feels that he has nothing to say, and constantly cheating himself by the fact that the thought has not mature, that he carries it out and prepares materials.
But Golenichev was angry and tortured, and Vronsky was unable to deceive and torture himself and especially to be angry.
He, with his own determination of character, without explaining anything and without justifying himself, ceased to paint.
But without this occupation, his and Anna's life, surprised by his disappointment, seemed so boring to him in the Italian city, the palace suddenly became so obviously old and dirty, so unpleasantly looked the spots on the gardens, the thresholds on the fields, the stumbling stumbling on the carnizes and so boring became all the same Golenišev, the Italian professor and the German traveler, that it had to change life.
They decided to go to Russia, to the village.
In St. Petersburg, Vronsky intended to make a split with his brother, and Anna to see his son.
In the summer they intended to live in a large family property of Vronsky.
XIV
Levin was married for the third month.
He was happy, but not as he expected.
At every step he found disappointment in his old dreams and a new unexpected charm.
Levin was happy, but when he entered the family life, he saw at every step that it was not what he imagined.
At every step he experienced what a man who loved the smooth, happy journey of a boat through the lake, after he had sitted on that boat.
He saw that there was little to sit straight, not climbing,—there is still to think, not for a minute, not forgetting where to swim, that under the feet the water and it is to swim, and that the unusual hands are painful, that it is easy to look at it, and what to do it though very joyful, but very difficult.
It was, hollow, looking at the other’s marriage life, small concerns, disputes, jealousy, he only negligently smiled in the soul.
In his future marriage life not only could, in his belief, not be anything like that, but even all the external forms, he seemed, should have been in everything completely different from the lives of others.
And suddenly, instead, his life with his wife was not only not made special, but, on the contrary, it was all made up of the lowest little things that he so denied before, but which now, against his will, received an unusual and irrevocable significance.
And Levin saw that the installation of all these little things was not as easy as he thought before.
Despite the fact that Levin believed he had the most accurate concepts of family life, he, like all men, unwillingly imagined family life only as a pleasure of love, which nothing should be hindered and from which little concerns should not be distracted.
He had to, according to his concept, work his work and rest from it in the mercy of love.
She had to be loved, and only.
But he, like all men, forgot that she had to work. And he was surprised how she, this poetic, beautiful Kitty, could, in the first few weeks, in the first days of family life, think, remember and worry about the scatters, the furniture, the tuffy for the guests, the lifting, the cooking, the lunch, etc.
Even former married, he was impressed by the certainty with which she refused to travel abroad and decided to go to the village as if she knew something needed, and, in addition to her love, she could still think of the stranger.
It offended him then, and now several times her small troubles and concerns offended him.
But he saw that she needed it. And he, loving her, although he didn’t understand why, although he laughed on these concerns, he couldn’t miss them.
He laughed on how she distributed the furniture brought from Moscow, how she cleaned her and his room in a new way, how she hanged the gardens, how she distributed the future room for guests, for Dolly, how she arranged the room for her new girlfriend, how she ordered lunch to the old man to cook, how she went into interchange with Agatha Mikhailovna, removing her from the providence.
He saw that the old cook smiled, loving her and listening to her unwilling, impossible orders; he saw that Agaphya Mikhailovna thoughtfully and gently climbed her head to the new orders of the young barney in the warehouse; he saw that Kitty was unusually cute when she, laughing and crying, came to him to announce that the girl Masha used to consider her barish and therefore no one listened to her.
It seemed nice to him, but strange, and he thought it would be better without it.
He didn’t know the feeling of change that she experienced after she at home sometimes wanted cabbage with quas or cheese, and nothing and nothing else could have, and now she could order what she wanted, buy breasts cheese, withstand how much she wanted money, and order what she wanted cheese.
She now pleased to dream of Dolly coming with her kids, especially because she will order for her kids the favorite cake, and Dolly will appreciate all her new device.
She herself didn’t know why and why, but the household continuously pulled her to her.
She, instinctively feeling the approaching of the spring and knowing that there will be untouched days, willa, as she knew, her nest and rushed at the same time and wipe it and learn how to do it.
This small concern of Kitty, so opposed to the ideal of Levin of the elevated happiness of the first time, was one of the disappointments; and this sweet concern, whose meaning he did not understand but could not dislike, was one of the new charms.
Another disappointment and charm were disputes.
Levin could never imagine that there could be other relationships between them and their wife, except gentle, respectful, loving, and suddenly from the first days they struggled, so she told him that he didn’t love her, loves himself alone, cried and swallowed his hands.
The first of these disputes occurred because Levin went to a new huter and spent half an hour down because he wanted to go through the nearby road and was missing.
He went home, just thinking about her, about her love, about her happiness, and the closer he came, the more delicacy to her was burning in him.
He fled into the room with the same feeling and even stronger than that with which he came to Sherbatsky to make an offer. And suddenly he met a dark, never seen expression in it.
He wanted to kiss her, she pushed him off.
What are you?
- You have fun... - she started, wanting to be calm and angry.
But as soon as she opened her mouth, as the words of the accusations of meaningless jealousy, everything that suffered her in those half hours that she spent stagnantly, sitting on the window, broke out with her.
Here only for the first time he clearly understood what he didn’t understand when after the vence he brought her out of the church. He realized that she was not only close to him, but that he now doesn’t know where it ends and he begins.
He understood this by the painful feeling of separation he experienced in that moment.
He insulted at the first minute, but at the same moment he felt that he could not be insulted by her, that she was himself.
He experienced in the first minute a feeling similar to what a person is experiencing when, having suddenly a strong blow back, with annoyance and desire for revenge turns to find the guilty, and becomes convinced that it is he himself accidentally hit himself, that to be angry not on anyone and must be transferred and suffer the pain.
He never felt that with such strength afterwards, but this was the first time he could not remember for a long time.
The natural feeling required him to be justified, to prove her guilt; but to prove her guilt meant even more to irritate her and to make more the breakthrough that was the cause of all evil.
One usual feeling caused him to remove himself and to carry the guilt on it; another feeling, stronger, caused him to smooth it as soon as possible, without allowing the breakthrough to increase.
Staying with such unfair accusation was painful, but, being justified, making her pain was even worse.
As a person in half-sleeping pain, he wanted to remove, to throw away the sick place and, remembering, felt that the sick place was he himself.
It was only to try to help the sick place suffer, and he tried to do so.
They have reconciled.
She, aware of her guilt, but not saying it, became more gentle to him, and they experienced a new, doubled happiness of love.
But this did not prevent these collisions from repeating and even especially often, for the most unexpected and unnecessary reasons.
These confrontations occurred often and because they didn’t know what was important to each other yet, and because all this was the first time they both were often in a bad mood.
When one was in the good and the other in the bad, the world was not broken, but when the two happened in the bad position, the collisions arose from such incomprehensible reasons that they then could not remember what they disputed.
Indeed, when they were both in a good mood, the joy of their life doubled. But the first time was a difficult time for them.
In all this first time, it was especially vivid to feel the tension, as if it was subjected to the one and the other side of the chain to which they were connected.
In general, that honeymoon, that is, a month after the wedding, from which, according to the tradition, Levin expected so much, was not only not honeymoon, but remained in remembrance of both of them the hardest and humiliating time of their lives.
They both were equally trying in their subsequent life to remove from their memory all the ugly, shameful circumstances of this unhealthy time, when they were rarely in normal mood, rarely themselves.
Only for the third month of marriage, after returning them from Moscow, where they traveled for a month, their lives became more equal.
XV
They just arrived from Moscow and were happy with their isolation.
He sat in the office at the table and wrote.
She, in the dark yellow dress she was wearing in the first days of her marriage and now again wearing and which was memorable and expensive to him, sat on the sofa, on the same leather old sofa that always stood in the office with grandfather and father Levin, and shilled broderie anglaise.
He thought and wrote, without ceasing to feel joyfully his presence.
His lessons and the business and the book, in which the foundations of the new economy were to be exposed, were not left to him; but as before these lessons and thoughts seemed to him small and unnecessary compared to the darkness that covered the whole life, so precisely unimportant and small they seemed now compared to that overwhelmed bright light of happiness in the coming life.
He continued his lessons, but he now felt that the center of the gravity of his attention moved to another and that as a result he looked at the matter completely differently and more clearly.
Before that, it was a salvation for him.
He previously felt that without this work his life would be too dark. Now these lessons were necessary for him so that life was not too uniformly light.
Taking back his papers, reading what was written, he was pleased to find what it was worth doing.
It was new and useful. Many of the previous thoughts seemed to him excessive and extreme, but many gap became clear to him when he refreshed the whole thing in his memory.
He has now written a new chapter on the causes of the disadvantage of agriculture in Russia.
He demonstrated that the poverty of Russia arises not only from the incorrect distribution of land ownership and false direction, but that this has been contributed in recent times by an abnormal Russian external civilization, in particular the way of communication, the railways, which have caused centralization in cities, the development of luxury and consequently, to the damage of agriculture, the development of the factory industry, the credit and its satellite – the stock market game.
It seemed to him that with the normal development of wealth in the state all these phenomena occur only when on agriculture was already placed significant labour, when it became in the right, at least in certain conditions; that the wealth of the country should grow equally and in particular in such a way that other sectors of wealth should not exceed agriculture; that according to a certain state of agriculture should be corresponding to him and the ways of communication, and that with our misuse of the land the railways, caused by not economic but political necessity, were premature and, instead of contributing to the agriculture, which they expected from them, by advancing the agriculture and causing the development of the industry and credit, they stopped it, and because, as a matter of agriculture and the development of the agriculture, it would be necessary for us to
While he wrote his own, she thought about how unnaturally careful her husband was with the young prince of Charsky, who was very gentle with her the day before the departure.
“He’s jealous,” she thought. My God! How gentle and stupid.
He is jealous of me!
If he knew that they were all like Peter’s cook for me, she thought, looking at him with a strange sense of ownership and a red neck. It’s unfortunate to remove him from the classes (but he’s going to succeed!I have to look at his face; will he feel that I look at him?
I want him to turn...
I want, well!” And she opened her eyes broaderly, wanting to enhance the action of her sight.
“Yes, they take away all the juices and give a false glow,” he sparked, ceasing to write, and, feeling that she looked at him and smiled, looked.
What? He asked, smiling and rising.
“I looked,” she thought.
“Nothing, I wanted you to look,” she said, looking at him and wanting to guess if it’s boring him or not that she’s dismissed him.
How good are we both!
I mean, he said, I come to her and shine with a smile of happiness.
I am so good!
I’m not going to go anywhere, especially to Moscow.
What did you think about?
I am?
I thought...
No, no, go to write, don’t have fun,” she said, throwing my lips, “and now I have to cut out these holes, you see?
She took the knives and began to cut.
No, tell me what? He said, sitting to her and watching the circular movement of the small knives.
Oh, what did I think?
I thought about Moscow, about your backdrop.
Why is this happiness for me?
It is unnatural.
“It’s too good,” he said, kissing her hand.
In contrast, the better, the more natural.
“And you have a bit,” he said, carefully turning her head. The coat.
You see, here is.
No, no, we are doing something.
The lesson was no longer on, and they, as guilty, jumped away from each other when Kuzma entered to report that the tea was delivered.
Are you coming from the city? He asked Levin to Kuzma.
Once they came, they understand.
“Come soon,” she told him, leaving the office, “and I’ll read the letters without you.
And let the four hands play.
Leaving alone and removing his notes into the new portfolio he bought, he began to wash his hands in the new washing machine with the new, all with it appeared elegant accessories.
Levin smiled with his thoughts and unacceptably climbed his head on these thoughts; a feeling like disappointment tortured him.There was something shameful, neglected, cappuccinous, as he called it, in his current life.
“Life is not so good,” he thought. It’s about three months and I’m hardly doing nothing.
This is almost the first time I take my job seriously, and what?
He just started and gave up.
Even my ordinary lessons – and I almost left them.
On the farm, and I almost don’t walk or ride.
I’m sorry to leave her, I see she’s bored.
And I thought that before marriage, life is not considered to be like it itself, but that after marriage it will start true.
But it’s three months soon, and I’ve never spent time so holy and useless.
No, it is not possible, we have to start.
Of course, she is not guilty.
It was nothing to blame her.
I had to be stronger, to cultivate my male independence.
You can get used to it and learn it.
Of course, she is not guilty,” he said to himself.
But it is difficult for the unhappy person not to blame someone else, and the one who is closest to him in what he is unhappy.
And Levin was confused to think that it was not that she was guilty (the guilty she could not be in anything), but the guilty of her education was too superficial and compulsive ("this stupid Charsky: she, I know, wanted but didn't know how to stop him").
"Yes, in addition to interest in the house (this was her), in addition to her toilet and in addition to broderie anglaise, she has no serious interests.
No interest in my business, in the economy, in the men, nor in the music in which it is quite strong, nor in reading.
She does nothing and is completely satisfied.”
Levin condemned it in soul and did not yet understand that she was preparing for the period of activity that had to come for her, when she will at the same time be the wife of her husband, the owner of the house, will carry, feed and raise children.
He didn’t think that she had little to know this, and preparing for this terrible work, she didn’t blame herself in the minutes of negligence and pleasure of love that she had now, joyfully throwing her future nest.
XVI
When Levin went up, his wife sat at a new silver samvar behind a new tea tool, and, planting the old Agaphy Mikhailovna with a cup of tea filled with her, read the letter of Dolly, with which they were in a constant and frequent correspondence.
“Vish, your grandmother sent me and told me to sit with her,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna, with a friendly smile on Kitty.
In these words of Agaphya Mikhailovna Levin read the breakdown of the drama, which recently occurred by the method of Agaphya Mikhailovna and Kiti.
He saw that, despite all the anger caused by Agaphie Mikhailovna by the new master, which took her from the braces of government, Kitty still defeated her and forced herself to love.
“I’ve read your letter,” Kitty said, sending him an unwritten letter. “It’s from that woman, it seems, your brother,” she said. I have not read.
It is from me and from Dolly.
Presentation!
Dolly was driving to Sarmatsky for the children's ball of Grisha and Tanya; Tanya was a marquis.
But Levin did not listen to her; he, red, took a letter from Mary Nicholas, the former lover of brother Nicholas, and began to read it.
This was the second letter from Maria Nikolaevna.
In the first letter, Maria Nikolaevna wrote that her brother threw her out of herself without guilt, and with a touching naivity added that although she was again in poverty, but she did not ask for anything, she did not want, but that only killed her thought that Nikolai Dmitriyevich would disappear without her because of the weakness of her health, and asked her brother to follow him.
Now she wrote another.
She found Nikolai Dmitriyevich, again met with him in Moscow and went with him to the governor city, where he got a place in service.
But that there he disputed with the chief and went back to Moscow, but the road was so sick that he was unlikely to get up, she wrote.“Everything has passed, and there’s no more money.”
- Well, Dolly writes about you, - Kitty began to smile, but suddenly she stopped, noticing the changing expression of her husband's face.
What are you?
What is?
She writes to me that Nicholas, brother, is at death.
I will go.
Kitty’s face suddenly changed.
Thoughts about Tane Marquis, about Dolly, all this has disappeared.
When will you go? She said.
and tomorrow.
I am with you, can you? She said.
The Kitty!
Well what is it? He said with accusation.
How what? - offended for the fact that he as if with disappointment and annoyance accepts her offer. Why should I not drive?
I will not interfere with you.
“I’m going because my brother is dying,” said Levin. Why are you...
for what?
For what you and for what you.
“And in such an important moment for me, she just thinks that she’ll be boring with one,” Levin thought. And this responsibility in such an important matter annoyed him.
“It’s impossible,” he said strictly.
Agaphya Mikhailovna, seeing that the matter comes to a dispute, silently put the cup and went out.
Kitty didn’t even notice her.
The tone to whom her husband said the last words offended her especially by the fact that he apparently did not believe what she said.
“And I tell you that if you go and I go with you, I will definitely go,” she spoke quickly and angry. Why is it impossible?
Why do you say that it is impossible?
Because God knows where, on what roads, hotels.
You will shame me,” said Levin, trying to be cold-blooded.
Not a few.
I don’t need anything. Where you can, I can...
Well, for one thing, that there is this woman with whom you can’t get closer.
I don’t know anything and I don’t want to know who is there and what.
I know that my husband’s brother dies, and my husband goes to him, and I go with my husband to...
The Kitty! Don’t be angry.
But you think it’s so important that I’m painful to think that you mix the feeling of weakness, the desire to stay alone.
Well, you’ll be boring one, well, go to Moscow.
“Hey, you always attribute to me bad, foolish thoughts,” she spoke with tears of insult and anger. I am nothing, weaknesses, nothing.
I feel that I’m my duty to be with my husband when he’s in the hole, but you want to deliberately make me hurt, you want to deliberately not understand...
Be a slave! Levin screamed and stood up and was no longer able to keep his possessions. But at the same moment he felt he was striking himself.
So why did you marry?
He would be free.
Why if you are scared? She spoke, jumped up and fled to the living room.
When he came to her, she swallowed from tears.
He began to speak with the desire to find the words that could not disturb, but just calm her.
But she did not listen to him and did not agree with anything.
He turned to her and took her resistant hand. He kissed her hand, kissed her hair, kissed her hand again, and she was silent.
But when he took her with both hands for the face and said, “Kitty!” Suddenly she remembered, cried and reconciled.
We decided to go tomorrow together.
Levin told his wife that he believed that she wanted to drive, only to be useful, agreed that the presence of Maria Nikolaevna with his brother does not represent anything unpleasant; but in the depth of his soul he was unhappy with her and himself.
He was unhappy with her that she couldn’t take on to release him when it needed (and how strange it was for him to think that he, so recently not daring to believe the happiness that she could love him, now felt unhappy because she loved him too much!He is unhappy with the fact that he has not suffered the character.
Furthermore, he was in the depth of his soul disagreeing with the fact that she has nothing to do with the woman who is with his brother, and he with horror thought about all possible confrontations.
One thing that his wife, Kitty, would be in the same room with the girl, made him irritated by hatred and horror.
17th
The Governor's city hotel, in which Nikolai Levin was sitting, was one of those Governor's hotels that are arranged according to new enhanced patterns, with the best intentions of purity, comfort and even elegance, but which by the audience visiting them, with an extraordinary speed turns into dirty cabbage with the claim of modern improvements, and are made by the same claim even worse than the old, simply dirty hotels.
This hotel has already come into this state; and the soldier in the dirty mount, smoking papyrus at the entrance, who had to paint a Swiss, and the wicked, smooth, dark and unpleasant stairs, and the disguised sex in the dirty frake, and the common hall with a dirty wax bouquet of flowers that decorates the table, and dirty, dust and dirt everywhere, and together some new modern railway self-satisfactory concerns of this hotel, produced on the Levins after their young life the heavierest feeling, especially that the false impression produced by the hotel did not come to the dark with what they expected.
As always, it turned out that after the question of what price they want the number, there was no one good number: one good number was occupied by a railway revisor, the other — a lawyer from Moscow, and the third — the princess of the village.
There was one dirty number left, next to which they promised to forgive another for the evening.
Angry with his wife for the fact that what he was expecting was accomplished, precisely that at the moment of arrival, while his heart was caught by anxiety when he thought that with his brother, he had to take care of her, instead of to flee immediately to his brother, Levin put his wife in the number he had given.
- Go, go! - she said, looking at him with a slave, guilty look.
He silently came out of the door and immediately met with Mary Nikolaevna, who learned about his arrival and didn’t dare to enter to him.
She was exactly the same as he saw her in Moscow: the same hairy dress and naked hands and neck and the same kindly stupid, slightly filled, sharp face.
Well what?
How is he? What?
Very badly.
They are not standing.
They were all waiting for you.
They... you... with your wife.
Levin didn’t understand at the first minute what disturbed her, but she immediately explained to him.
“I’ll go, I’ll go to the kitchen,” she said. They will be happy.
They have heard and remembered them abroad.
Levin realized that she understood his wife, and didn’t know what to answer.
Let us go, let us go! He said.
But just as he moved, the door of his number opened, and Kitty looked.
Levin reddened from shame and despair to his wife, putting himself and him in this difficult situation; but Maria Nikolaevna reddened even more.
She all shrinked and reded to tears, and, taking the ends of the plate with both hands, shrinked them with the red fingers, without knowing what to say and what to do.
In the first moment, Levin saw an expression of thirsty curiosity in the sight by which Kitty looked at this ununderstood horrible woman; but it lasted only a moment.
Well what?
What is he? She turned to her husband and then to her.
You can’t talk in the corridor. - said Levin, with bored look at the lord, who, narrating his legs, as if he was going through the corridor at that time.
“Well, come in,” Kitty said, turning to the recovered Maria Nikolaevna; but when she noticed the scared face of her husband, or go, go and follow me, she said, and returned to the room.
Levin went to his brother.
He did not expect what he saw and felt from his brother.
He expected to find the same state of self-threatening that, he heard, so often occurs with the cowboys and which so strongly hit him during the autumn arrival of his brother.
He expected to find the physical signs of the nearer death more definite, a great weakness, a great weakness, but still almost the same position.
He expected himself to experience the same feeling of regret for the loss of his beloved brother and the fear of death that he experienced then, but only to a greater extent. And he was preparing for it; but he found a different thing.
In a small dirty room, wrapped on the painted panno walls, behind the thin crossing of which a speech was heard, in the dirty smell of dirty air, on the wall of the bed was a body covered with a cover.
One hand of this body was above the cover, and the huge, like a grabble, chest of this hand was uncomprehensibly attached to the thin and straight from the beginning to the middle of a long tube.
His head was on the side of the подуal.
Levin was visible with sweating rare hair on the whiskey and a stretched, precisely transparent forehead.
“It cannot be that this terrible body was the brother Nicholas,” Levin thought.
But he approached closer, saw his face, and doubt became impossible.
Despite the terrible change in the face, Levin was worth looking into these living rising on the entering eye, noticing the light movement of the mouth under the folded ears, to understand that terrible truth that this dead body was a living brother.
The bright eyes strictly and strictly looked at the brother entering. And immediately this view established a living relationship between the living.
Levin immediately felt angry in his look and regret for his happiness.
When Constantine took his hand, Nicholas smiled.
The smile was weak, slightly noticeable, and despite the smile, the strict expression of the eyes did not change.
“You didn’t expect me to find such,” he hardly spoke.
— Yes, no, — said Levin, fooling in words. Why did you not know before, that is, during my wedding?
I have recorded everywhere.
He had to speak so that he didn’t lie, and he didn’t know what to say, even more that his brother didn’t answer anything, but just looked, not leaving his eyes, and obviously intrigued in the meaning of each word.
Levin told his brother that his wife had come with him.
Nicholas expressed pleasure, but said he was afraid to scare her by his position.
There was silence.
Suddenly, Nicholas wandered and began to say something.
Levin was waiting for something significant and important in his face expression, but Nikolai spoke about his health.
He accused the doctor, regretted that there was no Moscow famous doctor, and Levin realized that he was still hoping.
Choosing the first minute of silence, Levin stood, wishing to get rid of the painful feeling for a minute, and said he was going to bring his wife.
Well, and I tell you to clean up here.
It is dirty and smells, I think.
The Masha! It was hard to say to the patient. “When you take care, go away alone,” he added, looking questionably at his brother.
Levin did not answer anything.
When he went out to the corridor, he stopped.
He said he would bring his wife, but now, giving himself a report in the feeling he experienced, he decided that, on the contrary, he would try to convince her that she would not go to the patient.
“Why do you suffer like me?” He thought.
Well what?
How? She asked Kitty with a scared face.
Oh, that’s terrible, terrible!
Why did you come? He said Levin.
Kitty remained silent for a few seconds, looking stupidly and sadly to his husband; then she came and took his neck with both her hands.
The bones! Get me to him, it will be easier for us both.
You only take me away, take me away, please, and go away, she said. You understand that it is much harder for me to see you and not to see him.
There I can be,, useful to you and him.
Please let me! She prayed to her husband as if the happiness of her life depended on it.
Levin had to agree, and, recovering and completely forgotten about Mary Nikolaevna, he went again with Kitty to his brother.
Lightly walking and constantly looking at her husband and showing him a courageous and compassionate face, she entered the patient's room and, turning untouchably, silently closed the door.
With unheard steps, she quickly approached the patient's head, and, going so that he didn't have to turn his head, immediately took in her fresh young hand his vast hand, welcomed her, and with that, only female, not insulting and compassionate, quiet vibration she began to talk to him.
“We met, but we were not acquainted, in Soden,” she said. You didn’t think I was your sister.
Would you not recognize me? He said with a glowing smile at her entrance.
No, I would know.
How good you did what you gave us to know!
There was no day for Kosta to remember you and not to worry.
The patient's recovery did not last long.
She did not end talking about how a strict coronated expression of jealousy of the dead to the living was set on her face again.
“I’m afraid you’re not very well here,” she said, turning away from his narrow look and looking at the room. “We’ll have to ask the owner for another room,” she said to her husband, “and then to be closer to us.
18th
Levin could not calmly look at his brother, he could not be natural and calm in his presence.
When he entered the patient, his eyes and attention unconsciously stumbled, and he didn’t see or distinguish the details of his brother’s situation.
He heard a terrible smell, he saw dirt, trouble, and painful position and stones, and he felt that he could not help.
He didn’t have to think about understanding all the details of the patient’s condition, to think about how it was lay there, under the cover, this body, how, swallowing, these weakened necks, spots, and whether it could not be better to put them, do something so that it was not better, but less bad.
His cold sparked on his back when he began to think about all these details.
He was undoubtedly convinced that nothing can be done neither to extend life nor to relieve suffering. But the consciousness that he acknowledged that any help was impossible, felt sick and irritated him.
Levi was even harder.
Being in the patient's room was painful for him, not to be even worse.
And he continuously went out and entered again under various predictions, not being able to remain one.
But Kitty thought, felt and acted completely wrong.
When she saw the sick, she was sad. And the sadness in her female soul produced not the feeling of horror and ugly she produced in her husband, but the need to act, to know all the details of his state and to help them.
And since there was no doubt in her that she should help him, she did not doubt that it was possible, and immediately took the case.
The most detailed, one thought of which led her husband to horror, immediately turned her attention. She sent to the doctor, sent to the pharmacy, forced the girl who came with her and Mary Nikolaevna to revenge, to wash dust, to wash, to wash something, to wash, to put something under the coat.
It was taken and taken from the patient's room.
She herself went to her room several times, without paying attention to the gods that passed through her, delivering and bringing clothes, clothes, towels, shirts.
Lakey, who gave lunch in the general hall to the engineers, came to her call several times with a angry face and could not fail to comply with her orders, as she gave them with such a gentle insistency that it was not possible to leave her.
Levin did not approve this; he did not believe that any benefit would come out of it for the sick.
He was worried that the patient would not be angry.
But the sick, though it seemed to be indifferent to it, did not be angry, but only shame, as though he was interested in what she was doing on him.
Returning from the doctor to whom Kitty sent him, Levin, opening the door, stopped the sick at the moment he was replaced by Kitty's order.
The long white legs of the back with huge outstanding spots and turning ribs and spots were naked, and Maria Nikolaevna was confused with the lakes in the bracelet and could not direct a long hanging hand into it.
Kitty, who quickly closed the door behind Levin, did not look to that side; but the sick stopped, and she quickly turned to him.
Or rather, she said.
“Don’t go,” the sick spoke angry, “I myself...
What do you say? I asked Maria Nikolaevna.
But Kitty heard and realized that it was conscious and unpleasant for him to be naked with her.
I don’t see, I don’t see! She said, repairing the hand. “Maria Nikolaevna, and you go from that side, fix it,” she added.
“Look, please, I have a glass in a small bag,” she turned to her husband, “you know, in the side pocket, please bring it, and when it comes, it will be taken.
Returning with the glass, Levin found the sick already placed and everything around him completely changed.
The heavy smell was replaced by the smell of oxygen with the odors, which, exposing the lips and swallowing the rubble shells, Kitty jumped into the tube.
The dust was not seen anywhere, there was a cover under the bed. On the table stood carefully glasses, graphene and made the necessary clothing and work broderie anglaise Kitty.
On the other table, at the patient’s bed, was a drink, a candle and a dust.
The sick himself, wiped and wiped, was lying on clean beds, on high-heated pants, in a clean shirt with a white shirt around an unnaturally thin neck and with a new expression of hope, without leaving his eyes, looked at Kitty.
The doctor brought by Levin and found in the club was not the one who treated Nicholas Levin and who was unhappy with.
The new doctor got the tube and listened to the patient, climbed his head, prescribed the medicine and with a special detail explained first how to take the medicine, then what to follow the diet.
He advised the eggs raw or slightly boiled and land water with a pair of milk of a known temperature.
When the doctor went away, the sick said something to his brother; but Levin only heard the last words, “Your Katya,” and when he looked at her, Levin realized that he praised her.
He suspected Katya as he called her.
“I’m much better,” he said. I would have healed with you for a long time.
How good! He took her hand and pulled her to his lips, but, as if he was afraid that it would be unpleasant to her, he thought, released, and just wiped her.
Kitty took that hand with both hands and greeted her.
Now put me on the left side and go to bed, he said.
No one heard what he said, one Kitty understood.
She understood, because she continued to think about what she needed.
“On the other side,” she said to her husband, “he always sleeps on that side.
It is unpleasant to call him a servant. I cannot.
And you can’t? She addressed Maria Nikolaevna.
“I’m afraid,” said Maria Nikolaevna.
No matter how terrible it was for Levin to embrace this terrible body with his hands, to take those places under the cover he wanted not to know, but, subjected to his wife's influence, Levin made his decisive face, which his wife knew, and, leaving his hands, took, but, despite his strength, was affected by the strange weight of these wealthy members.
While he turned him, feeling his neck covered with a huge weakened hand, Kitty quickly, unheardly turned the подуal, kicked it and fixed the sick’s head and his rare hair, again folded on the whiskey.
The patient held his brother's hand in his hand.
Levin felt he wanted to do something with his hand and pulled her somewhere. Levin gave up, dying.
He pulled her to his mouth and kissed her.
Levin was shocked by crying and, unable to say anything, went out of the room.
19th
“He hid from the wise and revealed to the children and to the wicked.” This was what Levin thought of his wife when he spoke to her tonight.
Levin thought of the gospel not because he considered himself wise. He did not consider himself wise, but he could not know that he was smarter than his wife and Agaphia Mikhailovna, and he could not know that when he thought of death, he thought with all the forces of the soul.
He also knew that many male great minds, whose thoughts he read about it, thought about it and didn’t know one hundred of what his wife and Agaphya Mikhailovna knew about it.
No matter how different these two women were, Agaphya Mikhailovna and Katya, as she was called by her brother Nikolai and as now Levina was pleasant to call her, they were quite similar in this.
Both of them were undoubtedly aware of what life was and what death was, and although they could not answer and would not even understand the questions that presented to Levin, they both did not doubt the meaning of this phenomenon and completely the same, not only among themselves, but by sharing this view with millions of people, they looked at it.
The proof that they knew firmly what death was, was that they, without a second of doubt, knew how to act with those who died, and were not afraid of them.
Levin and others, though they could say a lot about death, obviously didn’t know, because they feared death and decidedly didn’t know what to do when people die.
If Levin had now been alone with his brother Nicholas, he would look at him with horrors and even more horrors, and he would not be able to do anything more.
He didn’t know what to say, how to watch, how to walk.
Talking about the stranger seemed insulting to him, it is not possible; talking about death, about the dark, it is not possible.
Silence is not possible either. “To look – he thinks I’m studying him, I’m afraid; not to look – he thinks I’m thinking about another.
Walking on the chickens will be unhappy; on the whole foot will be conscious.”
Kitty obviously did not think and had no time to think about herself; she thought about it because she knew something, and everything went well.
She also talked about herself and about her wedding, and she smiled, and regretted, and lacked him, and talked about the cases of recovery, and everything went well; it was, she knew.
The proof that her and Agatha Mikhailovna's activities were not instinctive, animal, unreasonable, was that, in addition to physical care, relief of suffering, Agatha Mikhailovna and Kitty demanded for the deceased something more such, more important than physical care, and something that had nothing to do with physical conditions.
Agaphya Mikhailovna, speaking about the deceased old man, said: "What, thanks to God, share, break down, let God everyone die so." Katya exactly the same way, in addition to all concerns about clothing, clothes, drinks, in the first day she managed to convince the patient in the need to share and break up.
Returning from the sick for a night to his two rooms, Levin sat down his head, without knowing what to do.
Not to mention what to eat, get to bed, think about what they will do, he could not even talk to his wife: he was conscious.
Kitty, on the contrary, was more active than the usual. She was even more vibrant than the usual.
She ordered to bring dinner, she solved things, she helped to lay the beds and did not forget to sweat them with Persian powder.
It was the excitement and speed of thought that appears in men before battle, struggle, in the dangerous and decisive minutes of life, those minutes when a man once and for all shows his price and that all that passed was not a gift, but a preparation for these minutes.
All the matter was disputed with her, and it was not yet twelve, as all things were solved cleanly, carefully, somehow so special that the number became like the house, to her rooms: beds postlan, shorts, shorts, mirrors placed, salphets postlan.
Levin found it unforgivable to eat, to sleep, to speak even now, and felt that every move was unforgivable to him.
She understood the worms, but she did it all so that there was nothing offensive in it.
There, however, they couldn’t do anything, and they couldn’t sleep for a long time, and they didn’t even sleep for a long time.
“I’m so happy that I told him tomorrow to go down,” she said, sitting in a cottage in front of her stainless mirror and scratching the soft and softened hair with a frequent scratch. “I’ve never seen this, but I know, my mom told me that there are prayers for healing.
Do you think he can heal? - said Levin, looking at the constantly closed, as soon as she walked forward, a narrow line behind her round head.
I asked the doctor, he said he could not live more than three days.
But can they know?
I’m still very happy that she told him,” she said, kissing her husband because of her hair. “Everything may be,” she added with that special, somewhat smart expression that was always on her face when she talked about religion.
After their conversations about religion, when they were even a bride and a bride, neither he nor she had ever stopped talking about it, but she fulfilled her rituals of visiting the church, prayer always with the same quiet consciousness that it was so necessary.
Despite his confidence in the opposite, she was firmly convinced that he was the same and even better Christian than she, and that all that he says about it is one of his funny male outcomes, like what he said about broderie anglaise: as if good people throw holes, and she deliberately cuts them, etc.
“Yes, this woman, Maria Nikolaevna, didn’t know how to arrange it all,” said Levin. I have to admit that I am very, very happy that you have come. You are so pure that... -- He took her hand and didn't kiss her (to kiss her hand in this vicinity of death it seemed unworthy to him), but only blessed her with a guilty expression, looking in her bright eyes.
“It would be so painful for you to be alone,” she said, and, lifting up the hands that covered her red by pleasure clothes, swallowed the hair on the cover and swallowed them. — No, — continued she — she didn’t know.
Fortunately, I learned a lot in Sydney.
Do they have the same sick people?
and worse.
“It’s terrible for me that I can’t miss him how young he was.
You won’t believe how beautiful he was, but I didn’t understand him at that time.
Very, very much I believe.
As I feel, we would be friendly with him, she said and was afraid of what she said, she looked at her husband, and tears came out on her eyes.
“Yes, it would be,” he said sadly. This is one of those people they say they are not for this world.
“But we have a lot of days ahead, we have to lie,” Kitty said, looking at her little clock.
XX
Death
On the other day, the patient was divided and destroyed.
During the ceremony, Nikolai Levin prayed warmly.
In his big eyes, aimed at the image placed on the lobber, covered with a colourful serviette table, there was such a passionate prayer and hope that Levin was terrible to look at it.
Levin knew that this passionate prayer and hope would only make it even more difficult for him to separate from the life he loved so much.
Levin knew his brother and the course of his thoughts; he knew that his infidelity occurred not because it was easier for him to live without faith, but because step by step modern scientific explanations of the phenomena of the world exhausted beliefs, and therefore he knew that his current return was not legitimate, made by the same thought, but was only temporary, useful, with a mad hope of healing.
Levin also knew that Kitty had reinforced that hope by telling more about the unusual healing she heard.
Levin knew all this, and it was painfully painful for him to look at this praising, hopeful look, and on this weakened chest of his hand, with the hardly lifting and placing cross signs on his narrowed forehead, on those outstanding shoulders and crushing empty chest, which could no longer accommodate the life the sick asked for.
During the mystery, Levin also prayed and did what he, the unbeliever, did a thousand times.
He said to God, “Do, if you exist, that this man may be healed, and you will save him and me.”
After the massage, the patient suddenly became much better.
He didn’t hurt once over an hour, he smiled, kissed Kitty’s hand, with tears thanks to her, and said that he was well, nowhere he was hurt, and that he felt appetite and strength.
He even stood up when the soup was brought to him, and asked for another cocktail.
No matter how hopeless he was, no matter how obvious it was when he looked at him that he could not recover, Levin and Kitty were in that hour in the same happy and slave, no matter how wrong, excitement.
and better. Yes, a lot of. And surprisingly. There is nothing surprising. “But it’s better,” they spoke, smiling to each other.
The pain was short.
The patient slept calmly, but after half an hour the cough awakened him. And suddenly all hopes disappeared in him and in himself.
The reality of suffering, without a doubt, even without remembrance of past hopes, destroyed them in Levine and Kitty and in the most sick.
Not even mentioning what he believed half an hour ago, as if it was conscious and reminded of it, he asked him to give him iodine to breathe in a glass covered with paper with folded holes.
Levin gave him a bank, and the same look of the passionate hope with which he broke down now turned to his brother, asking him to confirm the doctors’ words that the inhalation of iodine produces miracles.
Katy is not? He screamed and looked at when Levin unwantedly confirmed the words of the doctor. No, so can I say...
I made this comedy for her.
She’s so cute, but we can’t be deceived with you.
That’s what I believe,” he said, and pressing the glass with the bone hand, he began to breathe over it.
At the eighth of the evening, Levin and his wife drank tea in their room, when Maria Nikolaevna, swallowed, fled to them. She was blurred, and her lips dropped.
He dies! She screamed. I am afraid I will die now.
Both fled to him.
He stood up and sat, covering himself with his hand, on the bed, swallowing his long back and low down his head.
What do you feel? He asked Levin after his silence.
“I feel that I’m going, with difficulty, but with extreme certainty, slowly exhausting words,” said Nicholas.
He did not raise his heads, but he only turned his eyes up, not reaching the face of his brother. — Katya, go away! — he spoke again.
Levin jumped up and forced her to go out.
“I’m going,” he said again.
Why do you think? Lewin said to say something.
“Because I’m going, as if I loved this expression, he repeated. The end.
Maria Nikolaevna came to him.
“If you were to sleep, it would be easier for you,” she said.
“I will soon lie quiet,” he said, “the dead,” he said laughing, angry. Put it when you want.
Levin put his brother on his back, sat under him and, without breathing, looked at his face.
The dead man was lying, closing his eyes, but on his forehead sometimes the muscles shed like a person who thought deeply and stressfully.
Levin unintentionally thought with him about what is happening now in him, but despite all the effort of thinking to go with him, he saw by the expression of this quiet, strict face and the game of the muscle over the brave that for the deceased is clear and clear that the same darkness remains for Levin.
“Yes, yes, yes,” the dead slowly spoke. and stand. He silenced again. – Yes! – suddenly he calmly stretched out, as if everything had been resolved for him. O Lord! He spoke and breathed hard.
Maria Nikolaevna caught his legs.
“It’s cold,” she screamed. For a long, very long time, as Lewin seemed, the patient was stable.
But he was still alive and suddenly breathed up.
Levin is already tired of the tension of thought. He felt that despite all the tension of thought, he could not understand what was so.
He felt that he had long gone away from the dead. He was unable to think about the matter of death, but he was unwilling to think about what he had to do now: to close his eyes, to dress up, to order a tomb.
And, strange thing, he felt completely cold and did not experience neither pain nor loss, nor even less regret to his brother.
If he had a sense of brother now, he would rather be jealous of the knowledge that the dead now has, but that he cannot have.
He was still sitting so long, all waiting for the end. But the end did not come.
The door opened and Kitty appeared.
Levin stood up to stop her.
But while he stood up, he heard the movement of the dead.
“Don’t go,” said Nicholas and stretched his hand.
Levin gave him his own and angered his wife to let her go.
With the dead's hand in his hand he sat half an hour, an hour, another hour.
He did not think about death anymore.
He thought about what Kitty, who lives in the neighboring room, did his home at the doctor.
He wanted to eat and sleep.
He carefully stretched his hand and felt his legs.
The legs were cold, but the sick breathed.
Levin once again wanted to go out on the chickens, but the sick again swallowed and said, Don’t go. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The
The patient’s condition was the same.
Levin, slowly stretched his hand, without looking at the dead, went to himself and slept.
When he woke up, instead of the news of the death of his brother he was waiting for, he learned that the patient was in an earlier state.
He once again began to sit, cough, again began to eat, again began to speak and again stopped talking about death, again began to express hope for recovery and became even more annoying and darker than before.
No one, neither his brother nor Kitty could calm him.
He was angry on everyone and spoke to everyone of trouble, accused everyone of his suffering and demanded that a famous doctor from Moscow be brought to him.
To all the questions he was asked about how he feels, he answered the same with the expression of anger and accusation:
I suffer terribly, unbearable. The patient suffered more and more, especially from the clothes that could not be cured, and more and more angry on the surroundings, blaming them in everything and especially for not being brought to him by doctors from Moscow.
Kitty tried to help him, to calm him; but everything was useless, and Levin saw that she was physically and morally tortured, even though she did not admit that.
The feeling of death that was caused in all of his goodbye with life that night he called his brother was destroyed.
Everyone knew that he was inevitable and would soon die, that he was half dead already.
Everyone only wanted him to die as soon as possible, and everyone, hiding it, gave him from a glass of medicine, sought medications, doctors, and deceived him, both himself and each other.
It was a lie, a foolish, insulting and misleading lie. And this lies, and by the nature of his character, and because he loved the dead most of all, Levin felt painful.
Levin, who had long been thinking about reconciliating his brothers even before his death, wrote to his brother Sergei Ivanovich and, after receiving a reply from him, read this letter to the patient.
Sergey Ivanovich wrote that he could not come alone, but in touching expressions asked for forgiveness from his brother.
The patient said nothing.
What should I write to him? He asked Levin. I hope you’re not angry on him?
No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Ask him to send a doctor to me.
Three more painful days passed; the patient was all in the same position.
The feeling of the desire for his death was now experienced by all who have only seen him: both the lake of the hotel, and its owner, and all the guests, and the doctor, and Maria Nikolaevna, and Levin, and Kitty.
Only one patient did not express this feeling, and, on the contrary, was angry for not being brought to the doctor, and continued to take the medicine and talked about life.
Only in rare minutes, when the opium forced him to forget for a moment of constant suffering, he in the mid-sleep sometimes said what was stronger than everyone else, was in his soul: "Ah, at least one end!" Or, “When it ends!”
The suffering, increasing equally, did his work and prepared him for death.
There was no condition in which he would not suffer, there was no minute in which he would forget, there was no place, a member of his body that would not suffer, would not suffer him.
Even the memories, the impressions, the thoughts of this body already raised in it the same hatred as the body itself.
The appearance of other people, their speeches, their own memories — all this was only painful for him.
The surrounding people felt this and unconsciously did not allow themselves any free movements, conversations, or expressions of their desires.
His whole life was merged into a sense of suffering and a desire to get rid of him.
In it, obviously, was the revolt that had to force him to look at death, as to satisfy his desires, as to happiness.
Before each individual desire caused by suffering or deprivation, such as hunger, fatigue, thirst, was satisfied by the sending of the body which gave pleasure; but now deprivation and suffering were not satisfied, and the attempt to satisfy caused a new suffering.
And therefore all desires were merged into one – the desire to get rid of all suffering and their source, their body.
But he had no words to express this desire for liberation, and therefore he did not speak of it, but according to the habit he demanded the satisfaction of those desires that could no longer be fulfilled.
“Send me to the other side,” he said, and immediately after it asked him to be placed as before.
“Give a bull.
Take the bull.
Tell me something that you are silent.”
And as soon as they began to speak, he closed his eyes and expressed fatigue, indifference and disgust.
On the 10th day after arriving in the city, she was sick.
She had a headache, vomiting, and she couldn’t get up from bed all morning.
The doctor explained that the disease occurred from fatigue, anxiety, and prescribed her mental calm.
After lunch, however, Kitty stood up and went, as usual, to work with the patient.
He strictly looked at her when she came in, and negligently smiled when she said she was sick.
On that day, he constantly swallowed and stood complaining.
How do you feel? She asked him.
Worse, he was hard to speak. It is painful!
Where is it painful?
everywhere.
“The night will end, see,” said Maria Nikolaevna even with a scream, but so that the sick, very sensitive, as Levin noticed, had to hear her.
Levin looked at her and looked at the sick.
Nicholas heard; but these words did not make any impression on him. His appearance was all the same rough and stressed.
Why do you think? - Lewin asked her when she went for him to the corridor.
“He stopped stealing himself,” said Maria Nikolaevna.
How to steal?
“It’s so,” she said, covering the slices of her hairy dress.
In fact, he noticed that all that day the patient was catching on himself and as if he wanted to remove something.
The forecast of Mary Nicholas was true.
The patient at night was no longer able to lift the hand and only looked in front of himself, without changing the carefully focused expression of sight.
Even when his brother or Kitty slept over him so that he could see them, he looked the same.
Kitty sent to the priest to read the rescue.
As long as the priest was reading the discretion, the dead did not show any signs of life; the eyes were closed.
Levin, Kitty and Maria Nikolaevna stood at bed.
The prayer was not yet read by the priest, as the dead stretched, breathed and opened his eyes.
The priest, after completing the prayer, placed the cross to the cold forehead, then slowly wrapped it into the epitrahyl, and, staying still silent for two minutes, touched the cold and impeccable huge hand.
“It was over,” said the priest, and he wanted to go away; but suddenly the folded ears of the dead were shaken, and clearly in silence, somewhat sharp sounds were heard from the depths of the chest:
Not completely...
soon to.
And after a minute the face was bright, a smile came under the ears, and the women gathered carefully began to remove the deceased.
The appearance of his brother and the proximity of death rebounded in the soul of Levin the feeling of horror before the unthinkable and together the proximity and inevitability of death that covered him in that autumn evening when his brother came to him.
This feeling was now even stronger than before; even less than before, he felt capable of understanding the meaning of death, and even more terrible was his inevitability; but now, thanks to his wife’s proximity, this feeling did not bring him into despair: he, despite death, felt the need to live and love.
He felt that love saved him from despair and that this love under the threat of despair became even stronger and cleaner.
One secret of death did not succeed in his eyes, which remained unthinkable, as another emerged, as unthinkable, which caused love and life.
The doctor confirmed his assumptions about Kitty.
Her illness was pregnancy.
21st
From the moment that Alexey Alexandrovich understood from the explanations with Betty and with Stephan Arkadić that he was only required to leave his wife in peace, without troubling her with his presence, and that his wife desired it, he felt so lost that he couldn’t decide anything by himself, he didn’t know what he wanted now, and, giving in the hands of those who so pleased to deal with his affairs, he answered all with consent.
Only when Anna had already left his house and the English woman sent him to ask if she should eat with him, or separately, he for the first time clearly understood his position and scared him.
The most difficult thing in this situation was that he could not unite and reconcile his past with what was now.
Not that passed, when he lived happily with his wife, disturbed him, the transition from that passed to the knowledge of the unfaithfulness of his wife he suffered suffering already; the condition was difficult, but it was understood to him.
If his wife then had left him, declaring his unfaithfulness, he would be angry, unhappy, but he would not be in the uncomprehensible situation for himself in which he felt now.
He could no longer reconcile his recent forgiveness, his compassion, his love for the sick wife and the child with what was now, that is, with the fact that, as a reward for all this, he now feels alone, disguised, laughed, unnecessary to anyone and disguised by all.
The first two days after his wife's departure, Alexey Aleksandrovich received the prosecutors, the governor of the affairs, went to the committee and went out to dinner, as usual.
Without giving himself a report for what he does, he stressed all the forces of his soul in these two days only to look calm and even indifferent.
Answering questions about how to deal with the things and rooms of Anna Arkadievna, he made his greatest effort to look like a person for whom the event was not unexpected and has nothing out of a series of ordinary events, and he achieved his goal: no one could notice signs of despair in him.
But the second day after the departure, when Kornay gave him an account from a fashion store that Anna forgot to pay, and that the speaker himself here, Alexey Alexandrovich told him to call the speaker.
Sorry, your superiority, that I dare to bother you.
But if you order to appeal to her superiority, do you not wish to inform their address.
Alexey Aleksandrovich thought about how the speaker seemed, and suddenly, turning back, sat to the table.
Leaving his head on his hands, he sat in this position for a long time, tried to talk several times and stopped.
Understood the feelings of Barin, Kornay asked the speaker to come another time.
Leaving alone again, Alexey Aleksandrovich realized that he was no longer able to endure the role of firmness and calmness.
He told him to postpone the waiting car, he didn’t tell anyone to take and didn’t come out to eat.
He felt that he could not endure the universal pressure of negligence and harshness that he clearly saw on the face of both this speaker, and Cornea, and all without exception, whom he met in these two days.
He felt that he couldn’t get rid of people’s hatred, because this hatred did not come from the fact that he was foolish (then he could try to be better), but from the fact that he was shy and disgustingly unhappy.
He knew that for this, for the same thing that his heart was stretched, they would be miserable to him.
He felt that people would destroy him as dogs drow a sturdy, painful dog.
He knew that the only rescue from people was to hide his wounds from them, and he unconsciously tried to do this for two days, but now he felt no longer able to continue this uneven struggle.
His despair was further increased by the awareness that he was completely lonely with his sadness.
Not only in St. Petersburg he had no one person to whom he could tell everything he experienced, who would regret him not as a senior official, not as a member of society, but just as a suffering person; but he had no such person anywhere.
Alexey Alexandrovich was an orphan.
They had two brothers.
The father they didn’t remember, the mother died when Alexey Alexandrovich was ten years old.
The condition was small.
Grandfather Karenin, an important official and once a lover of the deceased emperor, raised them.
After completing courses at high school and university with medals, Alexey Alexandrovich with the help of his uncle immediately became on a visible service path and since then exclusively gave himself to the service ambition.
Neither at the high school, nor at the university, nor after the service, Alexey Aleksandrovich had no friendship with anyone.
His brother was the closest man to him, but he served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, lived always abroad, where he died shortly after the marriage of Alexey Alexandrovich.
During his governorate, the uncle of Anna, a rich governor barnia, took away a young man, but a young governor with his grandmother and put him in such a position that he had to either speak or leave the city.
Alexey Alexandrovich hesitated for a long time.
There was so many arguments for this step, as much as it was against, and there was no decisive reason that would force him to change his rule: to refrain from doubt; but the uncle of Anna insisted through a acquaintance that he had already compromised the girl and that the duty of honor obliges him to make an offer.
He made an offer and gave the bride and wife all the feeling he was able to.
The attachment he experienced to Anne excluded in his soul the last needs of heart relationships with people. And now, from all his acquaintances, he had no close one.
There was a lot of what was called relationships; but there were no friendly relationships.
Alexey Alexandrovich had a lot of such people, whom he could invite to lunch, ask for participation in the matter he was interested in, for the protection of any searcher, with whom he could openly discuss the actions of other persons and the higher government; but the relationship with these persons was concluded in one firmly defined habit and habit area from which it was impossible to get out.
There was one university companion with whom he approached after and with whom he could talk about a personal evil; but this companion was a guardian in a distant school district.
Of the persons who were in St. Petersburg, the closest and most possible of all were the governor of the office and the doctor.
Mikhail Vasilyevich Sludin, the ruler of affairs, was a simple, intelligent, good and moral person, and in him Alexey Alexandrovich felt a personal mood to himself; but their five-year official activity placed a barrier between them for spiritual explanations.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, after completing the signature of the papers, was silent for a long time, looking at Mikhail Vasilyevich, and tried several times, but could not speak.
He prepared the phrase, “Have you heard of my mountain?” But he ended with what he said, as usual, “This is how you will prepare it for me,” and thus released him.
The other person was a doctor, who was also well situated to him; but the silent agreement between them has long been recognized that both are overwhelmed and both have to rush.
About his female friends and the first of them, about Count Lydia Ivanovna, Alexey Alexandrovich did not think.
All women, just like women, were scary and hostile to him.
XXII
Alexey Aleksandrovich forgot Lydia Ivanovna, but she didn’t forget him.
In this hardest moment of lonely despair, she came to him and entered his office without a report.
She put him in the same position in which he was sitting, opening his head on both hands.
“J’ai force la consigne,” she said, entering fast steps and hard breathing from anxiety and fast movement. I heard everything!
Alexey Alexandrovich!
My friend! She continued, strongly with both hands pushing his hand and looking in his eyes with her beautiful thoughtful eyes.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, bullshit, came and, stretched out of her hand, moved her chair.
Would you like it, Count? “I don’t take it because I’m sick, Count,” he said, and his lips were narrowed.
My friend! - Count Lydia Ivanovna repeated, not leaving her eyes, and suddenly her braces raised by the inner sides, forming a triangle on her forehead; her unpleasant yellow face became even unpleasant; but Alexey Alexandrovich felt that she regretted him and was ready to cry.
And he found a compassion on him: he caught her swollen hand and began kissing her.
My friend! She said with a voice interrupting from anxiety. You should not give up the mountain.
You are great, but you have to find comfort.
“I’m broken, I’m killed, I’m not a man anymore,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, throwing out her hand, but continuing to look in her tears-filled eyes. “My situation is so terrible that I can’t find anywhere, I can’t find a point of support in myself.
“You will find support, seek it not in me, although I ask you to believe in my friendship,” she said with a breath. Our support is love, the love that He has commanded us.
His burden is easy,” she said with the enthusiastic look that Alexey Alexandrovich knew so much. He will support you and help you.
Despite the fact that in these words there was that humiliation before his high feelings and that was what Alexey Alexandrovich seemed unnecessary, a new, enthusiastic mystical mood that recently spread in St. Petersburg, Alexey Alexandrovich was pleased to hear it now.
I am weak. I am destroyed.
I didn’t foresee anything and now I don’t understand anything.
“My friend,” Lydia Ivanovna repeated.
“Do not lose what is not now, not that,” continued Alexey Aleksandrovich. I do not regret.
But I can’t be ashamed before people for the position I’m in.
It’s bad, but I can’t. I cannot.
“You have not done that high act of forgiveness that I admire and all, but He, living in your heart,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna, enthusiastically lifting the eyes, “and therefore you can’t be ashamed of your act.
Alexey Aleksandrovich swallowed and, swallowing his hands, began to throw his fingers.
“We need to know all the details,” he said with a thin voice. “Human powers have boundaries, Count, and I have found my boundaries.
The whole day I had to make orders, orders on the house, which came out of my new, lonely position.
Secretary, Governor and Accounting.
This small fire burned me, I was unable to endure.
After lunch, I hardly left lunch yesterday.
I couldn’t tolerate how my son looked at me.
He didn’t ask me about the meaning of all this, but he wanted to ask, and I couldn’t tolerate that view.
He was afraid to look at me, but it was little.
Alexey Alexandrovich wanted to mention the account that was brought to him, but his voice dropped him, and he stopped.
About this account, on a blue paper, behind a hat, a tape, he could not remember without regret to himself.
“I understand, my friend,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna. I understand everything.
Help and comfort you will find not in me, but I still came only then to help you if I can.
If I could take away from you all these little humiliating concerns...
I understand that we need a woman’s word, a woman’s order.
Do you assign me?
Alexey Alexandrovich silently and thankfully greeted her hand.
We’re going to work together.
I am not strong in practical matters. But I will take it, I will be your economist.
Don’t thank me.
I don’t do it myself...
I can’t be thankful.
“But, my friend, don’t give up to the feeling you’ve spoken about, to be ashamed of what is the highest height of a Christian: whoever humbles himself, he will rise up.
You can’t thank me. We must thank him and ask him for help.
In Him one we will find peace, comfort, salvation and love,” she said and, lifting her eyes to heaven, began to pray, as Alexey Alexandrovich understood by her silence.
Alexey Alexandrovich was listening to her now, and those expressions that were not unpleasant to him before, but seemed excessive, now seemed natural and comforting.
Alexey Alexandrovich didn’t like this new, enthusiastic spirit.
He was a believer who was interested in religion primarily in the political sense, and the new doctrine, which allowed some new interpretations, because it opened the doors to dispute and analysis, was in principle unpleasant to him.
He previously treated cold and even hostile to this new doctrine and never disputed with Lydia Ivanovna, the captive of them, but carefully approached the silence of her challenge.
Now for the first time he listened to her words with pleasure and internally did not object to them.
“I am very, very grateful to you both for your actions and for your words,” he said when she finished praying.
Count Lydia Ivanovna once again grew both hands of her friend.
“Now I’m going to do it,” she said with a smile, silent and washing the remains of tears from her face. I am going to Serena.
Only in the extreme case I will address you. She stood up and went out.
Count Lydia Ivanovna went to the middle of Sereza and there, swallowing the tears of the scared boy, told him that his father was holy and that his mother died.
Count Lydia Ivanovna fulfilled her promise.
She really took on her all concerns about the arrangement and management of the house of Alexey Alexandrovich. But she did not exaggerate, saying she was not strong in practical matters.
All her orders had to be changed, because they were inexhaustible, and they were changed by Kornay, the comrador Alexey Alexandrovich, who invisibly for everyone now led the whole house of Karenin and calmly and carefully during the dressing of the bar told him what was needed.
But the help of Lydia Ivanovna was in the highest degree true: she gave the moral support to Alexey Alexandrovich in the consciousness of her love and respect to him and in particular in the fact that, as she was comforting to think, she almost turned him to Christianity, i.e. from an indifferent and lazy believer turned him to the hot and firm supporter of that new explanation of Christian teaching that was spread recently in St. Petersburg.
Alexey Alexandrovich was easy to convince it.
Alexey Aleksandrovich, like Lydia Ivanovna and other people who shared their views, was completely deprived of the depths of imagination, that spiritual ability through which the imaginations caused by imagination become so true that they require conformity with other conceptions and with reality.
He did not see anything impossible and incompatible in the idea that the death that exists for the unbelievers does not exist for him, and that since he possesses the fullest faith, the judge of the measure of which he himself, then the sin is no longer in his soul, and he experiences here, on earth, the full salvation.
The truth is that the ease and erroneousness of this idea of his faith was confused by Alexey Alexandrovich, and he knew that when he, without thinking at all that his forgiveness is an action of the supreme force, gave himself to this immediate feeling, he felt more happiness than when he, as now, every minute thought that Christ lives in his soul, and that, signing the papers, he fulfils his will; but for Alexey Alexandrovich it was necessary to think so, he was so necessary in his humiliation to have that, at least, the invented height with which he, disregarded by all, could disregard others that he held himself as a salvation, for his mindful salvation.
XXIII
Count Lydia Ivanovna, a very young and enthusiastic girl, was married to a wealthy, noble, gentle and broken entertainer.
For the second month, the husband threw her away, and to her enthusiastic confidence in humility he responded only with laughter and even hostility, which people who knew the good heart of the Count and did not see any shortcomings in the enthusiastic Lydia could not explain to themselves.
Since then, although they were not in divorce, they lived together, and when the husband met his wife, he always treated her with an unchanging toxic laughter, the cause of which was impossible to understand.
Count Lydia Ivanovna has long ceased to be in love with her husband, but since then she has never ceased to be in love with anyone.
She was in love in several occasions, both men and women; she was in love with almost all the people, something outstanding.
She was in love with all the new princesses and the princes, who came into family with the royal name, was in love with one metropolitan, one vocal and one priest.
She was in love with one journalist, three Slavs, Commissioner, one minister, one doctor, one English missionary, and Karenina.
All these love, if weakening, if strengthening, did not interfere with the conduct of the most common and complex courtyard and secular relations.
But since she, after the misfortune of Karenina, took him under her special custody, since she worked in the house of Karenina, taking care of his well-being, she felt that all the other love was not true, but that she was truly in love with one Karenina now.
The feeling she now experienced to him seemed to her stronger than all the previous feelings.
By analyzing her feelings and comparing it to the former, she clearly saw that she would not be in love with Commissioner, if he didn’t save the life of the king, would not be in love with Ristich-Kujitsky, if it wasn’t a Slavic matter, but that Karenina she loved for him himself, for his high ununderstood soul, for the sweet to her thin sound of his voice with his long intonations, for his tired look, for his character and soft white hands with fisted wings.
She was not only pleased to meet him, but she was looking for signs on his face of the impression she made on him.
She wanted to like him not only by words, but also by all her personality.
She has now done her toilet more than ever before.
She put herself in dreams of what would be if she wasn’t married and he would be free.
She rose from anxiety when he entered the room, she couldn’t hold the smile of enthusiasm when he told her a pleasant thing.
For a few days, Count Lydia Ivanovna was in the strongest tension.
She learned that Anna with Vronsky in St. Petersburg.
It was necessary to save Alexey Alexandrovich from meeting her, it was necessary to save him even from the painful knowledge that this terrible woman is in one city with him and that he can meet her every minute.
Lydia Ivanovna, through her acquaintances, about the intention of these disgusting people, as she called Anna and Vronsky, and tried to guide these days with all the movements of her friend so that he could not meet them.
The young adjuvant, the friend of Vronsky, through which she received information and who through the Count Lydia Ivanovna hoped to get a concession, told her that they had finished their affairs and left on another day.
Lydia Ivanovna has already begun to calm, as the other morning she was brought a note, the writing of which she with horror learned.
This was Anna Karenina’s book.
The cover was made of thick, like a rubber, paper; on the prolonged yellow paper was a huge monogram, and the letter smelled beautifully.
Who brought?
Commissioner of the hotel.
Count Lydia Ivanovna could not sit down for a long time to read the letter.
She had an outbreak of breath, which she was exposed to.
When she calmed, she read the following French letter:
“Madame la Comtesse, the Christian feelings that fill your heart, give me, I feel, the unforgivable courage to write to you.
I am unhappy with the divorce with my son.
I ask for permission to see him once before my departure.
I am sorry that I remind you of myself.
I’m addressing you, not Alexey Alexandrovich, just because I don’t want to force this generous man to suffer with a memory of myself.
If you know your friendship with him, you will understand me.
Will you send Sereza to me, or will I come to the house at a known, scheduled time, or will you let me know when and where I can see him outside of the house?
I do not assume refusal, knowing the generosity of the one it depends on.
You can’t imagine the desire to see him that I experience, and therefore you can’t imagine the gratitude that your help will raise in me.
And Anna.”
Everything in this letter irritated Count Lydia Ivanovna: both the content, and the indication of generosity, and in particular the discretion, as it seemed to her, the tone.
- Say that the answer will not be, - said Count Lydia Ivanovna and immediately, opening the buyer, wrote to Alexey Alexandrovich that she hopes to see him at the first time on a greeting in the palace.
“I have to talk to you about an important and sad thing. We agree where.
I have the best place to make your tea.
is necessary.
He imposes the cross, but he gives strength," she added to prepare it a little.
Count Lydia Ivanovna typically wrote two and three notes per day to Alexey Alexandrovich.
She loved this process of communicating with him, having the elegance and mystery that she lacked in her personal relationships.
XXIV
The greeting ended.
The travellers, meeting, talked about the latest news of the day, the re-received awards and the move of important servants.
As if the Count Mary Borisovne, the military ministry, and the head of the headquarters, the princess Watkovskaya, had spoken, addressing the high beauty of Freeline, asking him about the move, the old man sitting in an extended gold mountain.
“And I’m in the adjuvant,” Freelina replied, smiling.
by the spiritual department. And to help you, Karenina.
Hello the Prince! - said the old man, pressing the hand to the approaching.
What did you say about Karenina? The prince said.
- He and the Paths of Alexander Nevsky received.
I thought he had it.
No is.
You’ll look at him,” said the old man, indicating an extended hat on the door of the hall with one of the influential members of the State Council of Karenin in the courtyard with a new red tape through the shoulder. “Happy and satisfied, like a copper money,” he added, stopping to push the hand to the athletically complex beautiful camerer.
“No, he’s old,” Cameron said.
from concerns.
He now writes all the projects.
He will not leave the unfortunate until he reveals everything on the points.
How has he aged?
He makes passions.
I think Count Lydia Ivanovna is now jealous of his wife.
Well what!
About Count Lydia Ivanovna, please do not speak badly.
Is it bad that she is in love with Karenina?
Is Karenina really here?
Not here, in the palace, but in St. Petersburg.
I met them yesterday, with Alexey Vronsky, bras dessus, bras dessous, on the Sea.
- C'est un homme qui n'a pas... - began a camarger, but stopped, giving the way and worshiping the passing person of the king's name.
So without ceasing talking about Alexei Aleksandrovich, condemning him and laughing on him, while he, steering the way to a member of the State Council he took and not ceasing for a minute his exposition to not miss him, by points exposed him a financial project.
Almost at the same time as his wife left Alexei Aleksandrovich, the worst event for the servant happened to him, the end of the upcoming service movement.
The termination was done, and everyone saw it clearly, but Alexey Alexandrovich himself did not realize that his career was over.
Whether the confrontation with Stremov, the misfortune with his wife, or simply that Alexei Aleksandrovich reached the limit that was intended for him, but for all this year it became obvious that his office has ended.
He still occupied an important place, he was a member of many committees and committees; but he was a man who all came out and from whom nothing more is expected.
No matter what he said, no matter what he proposed, he was listened as if what he proposed had been known for a long time, and there was what he did not need.
But Alexey Alexandrovich did not feel this and, on the contrary, being eliminated from direct participation in government activities, more clearly than before he saw now the shortcomings and errors in the activities of others and considered his duty to indicate the means to correct them.
Soon after his divorce with his wife, he began to write his first note about the new court from the countless series of unnecessary notes across all the sectors of administration that was intended to write to him.
Alexey Alexandrovich not only did not notice his hopeless position in the official world and not only did not regret him, but was more than ever satisfied with his activity.
"The married takes care of the peaceful, how to please his wife, the unmarried takes care of the lord, how to please the lord," says the Apostle Paul, and Alexey Alexandrovich, who was now in charge of the writing, often remembered this text.
It seemed to him that since he remained without his wife, he served the Lord more by these projects than before.
The obvious intolerance of a member of the Council, who wanted to leave him, did not disturb Alexey Alexandrovich; he stopped exposing only when a member, taking advantage of the passage of the face of the royal name, escaped from him.
Leaving alone, Alexey Alexandrovich dropped his head, gathering thoughts, then scattered and went to the door, in which he hoped to meet Count Lydia Ivanovna.
“And how they are all strong and physically healthy,” Alexey Aleksandrovich thought, looking at the powerful with the scattered heartbreakers of the camarger and the red neck of the prince stretched in the mount, through which he had to pass. - It is fairly said that everything in the world is evil," he thought, kissing again on the icrus of the camarger.
Untoldly moving by his feet, Alexey Alexandrovich with the usual look of fatigue and dignity worshipped those gentlemen who talked about him, and, looking into the door, found with his eyes the Count Lydia Ivanovna.
A! Aleksei Aleksandrovich! — said the old man, evilly brilliant with his eyes, while Karenin was equal to him and with a cold gesture leaked his head. “I haven’t greeted you yet,” he said, indicating his newly received tape.
“Thank you,” Alexey Alexandrovich replied. “What a beautiful day today,” he added, according to his habit, especially hanging on the word “beautiful.”
He knew that they laughed upon him, but he did not expect anything from them except hostility; he was already accustomed to it.
When he saw the yellow shoulders of Lydia Ivanovna, who came out to the door, and her beautiful thoughtful eyes calling to him, Alexey Alexandrovich smiled, opening the unmistakable white teeth, and approached her.
The toilet of Lydia Ivanovna cost her a lot of work, like all her toilets in this recent time.
The purpose of her toilet was now quite the opposite of what she was pursuing thirty years ago.
Then she wanted to decorate herself something, and the more, the better. Now, on the contrary, she was necessarily so incompatible with the years and shaped the figure that she was only worried that the opposite of these jewellery with her outlook was not too terrible.
And to Alexey Alexandrovich, she achieved this and seemed attractive to him.
For him, it was the only island not only of good position to him, but of love in the sea of hostility and laughter that surrounded him.
Going through the structures of ridiculous views, he naturally attracted to her beloved look, like a plant to the light.
“I congratulate you,” she said, pointing her eyes on the tape.
Holding the smile of pleasure, he grew his shoulders, closing his eyes, as if he said it could not rejoice him.
Count Lydia Ivanovna knew well that this was one of his main joy, although he never recognized it.
What is our angel? - said Count Lydia Ivanovna, meaning Sereza.
“I can’t say that I would be quite pleased with them, lifting the brushes and opening the eyes,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said. The little ones are not satisfied with them.
(Sitnikov was a teacher who was entrusted to the secular education of the network.)
As I told you, there is some coldness in it to the main issues that must touch the soul of every person and every child—Alexey Aleksandrovich began to expose his thoughts on the only, except the service, which interested his question—a son’s education.
When Alexei Aleksandrovich with the help of Lydia Ivanovna returned to life and activity, he felt his duty to engage in the education of his remaining son.
Never before engaged in the issues of education, Alexey Alexandrovich dedicated some time to the theoretical study of the subject.
And after reading several books of Anthropology, Pedagogy and Didactics, Alexey Alexandrovich made a plan of education and, inviting the best Petersburg teacher to lead, began the work.
This was constantly occupied by him.
But the heart?
I see the father’s heart in it, and with such a heart the child cannot be foolish,” Count Lydia Ivanovna said with enthusiasm.
Yes, maybe...
As for me, I do my duty. This is all I can do.
“You’re coming to me,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna, silent, “we have to talk about a sad thing for you.
I would give everything to get rid of some memories, but others don’t think so.
I got a letter from her.
She is here, in St. Petersburg.
Aleksei Aleksandrovich drowned when he mentioned his wife, but immediately on his face established that dead immobility, which expressed complete impotence in this case.
“I was waiting for it,” he said.
Count Lydia Ivanovna looked at him enthusiastically, and tears of admiration before the greatness of his soul appeared on her eyes.
XXV
When Alexei Aleksandrovich entered a small, stained by an old portion and wrapped with portraits, the comfortable cabinet of Lydia Ivanovna, the mastery itself was not yet there.
She was dressed.
On the round table was covered a scatter and there was a Chinese device and a silver alcohol tea.
Alexey Alexandrovich looked at the countless well-known portraits that decorated the cabin, and, sitting at the table, revealed the Gospel that was on him.
The noise of the graffiti's silk dress sparked him.
“Well, now we’re sitting quiet,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna, with an exciting smile quickly passing between the table and the sofa, “and we’ll talk about our tea.
After a few words of preparation, Count Lydia Ivanovna, heavily breathing and red, sent to the hands of Alexey Alexandrovich the letter she received.
After reading the letter, he was silent for a long time.
“I don’t think I’d have the right to refuse her,” he said stupidly, lifting the eyes.
My friend! You can’t see evil in anyone.
On the contrary, I see that everything is evil.
But is it fair?
In his face was irresolvency and seeking advice, support and guidance in the case that was uncomprehensible to him.
— No, — passed him the Count Lydia Ivanovna. There is a limit of everything.
I understand immorality – she said not quite honestly, because she could never understand what leads women to immorality – but I don’t understand the cruelty, to whom? to you!
How to stay in the city where you are?
The century lives, the century learns.
And I will learn to understand your height and lowness.
Who will throw the stone? - said Alexey Aleksandrovich, obviously satisfied with his role. I have forgiven everything and therefore I can’t deprive her of the need for love for her – love for her son.
But is this love, my friend?
Is that honest?
Let us put, you forgive, you forgive... but do we have the right to act on the soul of this angel?
He believes she is dead.
He prays for her and asks God to forgive her sins...and so better.
What will he think?
“I didn’t think about it,” said Alexey Aleksandrovich, obviously agreeing.
Count Lydia Ivanovna closed her face with her hands and silenced.
She prayed.
“If you ask for my advice,” she said, praying and opening her face, “I do not advise you to do that.
Do I not see how you suffer, how it revealed your wounds?
As always, you forget about yourself.
But what can this lead to?
To new suffering from your side, to torture for the child?
If there is something human in her, she should not wish that.
No, I don't hesitate, I don't advise, and if you allow me, I'll write to her.
And Alexey Alexandrovich agreed, and Count Lydia Ivanovna wrote the following French letter:
“The merciful state,
Remembrance of you for your son can lead to questions from his side that cannot be answered without putting in the soul of the child the spirit of condemnation to what should be saints for him, and therefore I ask to understand the rejection of your husband in the spirit of Christian love.
I pray to the Most High for mercy to you.
The Count of Lydia.
This letter reached the hidden goal that Count Lydia Ivanovna hidden from herself.
It insulted Anna to the depth of her soul.
On his side, Alexey Aleksandrovich, returning from Lydia Ivanovna home, could not give up to his usual tasks and find the soul peace of the believer and saved person that he felt before.
The memory of a woman who was so much guilty before him and before whom he was so holy, as fairly Count Lydia Ivanovna told him, shouldn’t disturb him; but he wasn’t calm: he couldn’t understand the book he read, he couldn’t remove painful memories of his relationships with her, of the mistakes he, as he now seemed, made with her.
Remembrance of how he accepted, returning from the jump, her recognition of infidelity (especially that he demanded from her only external compassion, not caused to a duel), as regret, tortured him.
He also suffered the memory of the letter he wrote to her; especially his forgiveness, which no one needed, and his care for a stranger child burned his heart with shame and regret.
And exactly the same feeling of shame and regret he experienced now, recovering all his past with her and remembering the unpleasant words he made her offer after long hesitation.
“But what’s my fault?” He spoke to himself. And this question has always raised in it another question — about whether they feel otherwise, whether they love otherwise, whether otherwise these other people marry, these Vron, Oblon... these cameregers with thick icras.
And he was presented with a whole number of these sweet, strong, undoubted people, who unintentionally always and everywhere turned his curious attention to themselves.
He removed these thoughts from himself, he tried to convince himself that he lived not for the present, temporary life, but for the eternal, that in his soul is peace and love.
But what he did in this temporary, misleading life, as he thought, some misleading mistakes, suffered him as if there was no eternal salvation in which he believed.
But the temptation did not last long, and soon again in the soul of Alexey Alexandrovich was restored that calmness and that height, thanks to which he could forget what he did not want to remember.
XXVI
What is Captain? - said Sereza, the ruminate and joyful, returning from the walk on the eve of his birthday and giving his assembled fake to the high, smiling to the little man from the height of his growth, the old Swiss. Was there an officer today?
Accepted the father?
They have accepted.
Only the governor came out, and I, and joyfully, the Swiss said. Sorry, I’m going to film.
The network! - said the Slavic governor, stay in the doors led to the inner rooms. Take it yourself.
But Sereza, although he heard the weak voice of the governor, did not pay attention to him.
He stood, holding his hand behind the Switzerland’s bond, and looked at him in the face.
What did the father do for him, what should he do?
The Switzerland tightened his head.
The bonded official, who has gone seven times to ask Alexey Alexandrovich for something, was interested in Sereza and the Swiss.
Sereza stopped him once in the shadows and heard he regrettingly asked the Switzerland to report about himself, saying that he and his children should die.
Since then, Sereza, another time met the official in the shadows, was interested in him.
Was he very happy? He asked him.
How not happy!
It is hard to jump from here.
Have they brought something? He asked Serena, silent.
“Well, the strike,” the Switzerland said with a scream, “it’s from the graffiti.
Sereza immediately realized that what the Swiss spoke about was a gift from Count Lydia Ivanovna to his birth.
What do you say?
Where is?
I brought to Pope Corneys.
Should, a good thing!
How great?
So will it be?
Less and good.
The book?
No, something is.
Go, go, Vasily Lukich calls, - said the Switzerland, hearing the governor's approached steps and cautiously sending the hand in the half-trapped gloves, powering him for the binding, and, swallowing, showing his head to Vunić.
Vasilij Lukich, this minute! - answered Sereza with that joyful and loving smile that always defeated the executive Vasily Lukich.
Seret was too fun, too happy, so that he could not share with his friend Switzerland the family joy he learned on a walk in the Summer Garden from the grandmother of Count Lydia Ivanovna.
This joy seemed important to him by coinciding with the joy of the official and his joy that they brought the toys.
It seemed that today was a day in which everyone should be happy and happy.
Did you know the father got Alexander Nevsky?
How not to know!
They came to congratulate.
What, he is happy?
How the king’s grace does not rejoice!
So, he deserved, — said the Swiss strictly and seriously.
Sereza thought, looking into the investigated to the smallest details of the face of the Switzerland, especially in the submarine hanging between the seven backenbards, which no one saw except Sereza, who always looked at him not differently than from below.
Your daughter has been with you for a long time.
His daughter was a ballet dancer.
When to wake up?
They also have students. And you, teachers, go and go.
Coming into the room, Sereza, instead of sitting for the lessons, told the teacher his assumption that what they brought should be a machine. What do you think? He asked him.
But Vasily Lukich thought only about the fact that it should be taught a grammar lesson for a teacher who will come at two hours.
“No, you just tell me, Vasily Lukich,” he suddenly asked, already sitting at the work table and holding a book in his hands, “what’s more than Alexander Nevsky?”
Did you know the father got Alexander Nevsky?
Vasily Lukich replied that more than Alexander Nevsky is Vladimir.
And above?
And above all Andrei.
And more Andrea?
I don’t know.
How, and you don’t know? - and Sereza, covering his hands, deepened into thought.
His thoughts were the most complex and diverse.
He thought about how his father will get him suddenly and Vladimir and Andrey, and how he will, as a result, be much better on the lesson today, and how he himself, when he will be big, will get all the order and what they will invent above Andrey.
They are invented, and they deserve it.
They’re going to invent it, and it’s worth it now.
In such reflections time passed, and when the teacher came, the lesson about the circumstances of time and place and way of action was not ready, and the teacher was not only unhappy, but also angry.
This teacher’s anger touched Sereza.
He felt innocent because he did not learn the lesson; but no matter how he tried, he definitely couldn’t do that: as the teacher interpreted him, he believed and as if he understood, but as soon as he remained alone, he definitely couldn’t remember and understand that the short and so understandable word “in a sudden” is the circumstance of the form of action. But he was sad that he angered the teacher and wanted to comfort him.
He chose a minute when the teacher silently looked at the book.
Mikhail Ivanovich, when are your names? He suddenly asked.
You would think better about your work, and the names have no meaning for a reasonable being.
The same day as others in which you have to work.
Sereza looked carefully at the teacher, at his rare border, at the glasses that came down below the border that was on his nose, and thought that he hadn’t heard anything from what the teacher explained to him.
He understood that the teacher did not think of what he said, he felt it according to the tone to which it was said.
But why did they all agree to say it all in one way, all the most boring and unnecessary?
Why does he take me away from himself, because he doesn’t love me?” He asked himself with sadness and could not find the answer.
XXVII
After the teacher was the father’s lesson.
Until his father came, Sereza sat to the table, playing a knife, and began to think.
Among Sereghi’s favourite lessons was finding her mother while walking.
He did not believe in death at all and especially in her death, despite what Lydia Ivanovna told him and his father confirmed that, and therefore, and after he was told that she was dead, he was searching for her while walking.
Every woman full, gracious, with dark hair, was his mother.
When he saw such a woman in his soul he felt a sense of delicacy, such that he breathed, and tears appeared on his eyes.
And he was waiting for her to come to him, to raise the wave.
The whole face of her will be seen, she will smile, he will embrace him, he will hear her smell, he will feel the delicacy of her hand, and he will cry happily, as he once in the evening lie in her legs, and she kissed him, and he cried and kissed her white with the rings of her hand.
Then, when he accidentally learned from his grandmother that his mother was not dead, and his father and Lydia Ivanovna explained to him that she was dead for him because she was bad (which he could no longer believe because he loved her), he was exactly the same looking for and waiting for her.
The night in the Summer Garden was one lady in a violet wave, after which he with a heartbreaking waiting for it to be she, watched while she approached them on the road.
The lady did not come to them and escaped somewhere.
A little stronger than ever, Sereza felt the flows of love for her and now, forgotten, waiting for her father, cut the whole edge of the table with a knife, with bright eyes looking in front of her and thinking about her.
Dad is coming! He was destroyed by Vasily Lukich.
Sereza jumped up, approached his father and, kissing his hand, looked at him carefully, finding signs of joy in receiving Alexander Nevsky.
Did you walk well? - said Alexey Alexandrovich, sitting on his chair, moving to himself the book of the Old Testament and opening it.
Despite the fact that Alexei Aleksandrovich repeatedly said to Serezhe that every Christian must know the sacred history firmly, he himself in the Old Testament often dealt with the book, and Serezhe noticed that.
“Yes, it was very fun, Dad,” said Sereza, sitting on the side of the chair and climbing him, which was prohibited. - I saw Nadenka (Nadenka was raised with Lydia Ivanovna her grandmother).
She told me that she gave you a new star.
Are you happy, Dad?
“First, please don’t climb,” said Alexey Alexandrovich. And second, the way is not a reward, but labour.
And I would like you to understand that.
Here, if you will work, learn to get a reward, then the work will seem to you hard; but when you work, - said Alexey Alexandrovich, remembering how he supported himself with the consciousness of debt during the boring work of today's morning, consisting of signing a hundred eighteen papers, - love the work, you will find a reward for yourself.
The brightness and joy of Sereza's eyes drowned and drowned under the father's sight.
This was the long-known tone with which his father always treated him and to which Sereza had learned to fake.
The father always talked to him — so he felt Sereza — as if he was dealing with some of his imaginary boys, one of those in the books, but not like Sereza at all. And Sereza always tried to make her father the best book boy.
You understand it, I hope. The father said.
“Yes, dad,” Sereza answered, making it a imaginary boy.
The lesson consists in the teaching of several verses from the Gospel and the repetition of the beginning of the Old Testament.
Serez knew the verses of the Gospel properly, but at the moment he spoke them, he looked at the bone of the father’s forehead, which was so sharp at the whiskey that he was confused and the end of one verse on the same word translated to the beginning of another.
For Alexey Alexandrovich it was obvious that he didn’t understand what he said, and that irritated him.
He swallowed and began to explain what Sereza had heard many times and could never remember, because he understood too clearly—as if “in a sudden” it was the circumstance of the form of action.
Sereza looked at his father with a scared look and thought only of one thing: whether or not he would make his father repeat what he said, as it was sometimes.
And that thought so scared Serez that he no longer understood anything.
But the father did not have to repeat and passed to a lesson from the Old Testament.
Sereza told the same events well, but when he had to answer questions about the fact that some events were shaped, he didn’t know anything, despite being already punished for that lesson.
The place where he was no longer able to say anything, and broke, and cut the table, and climbed on the chair, was the place where he had to say about the endowed patriarchs.
He knew no one of them except Enoch, who was taken alive to heaven.
Before he remembered the names, but now he is completely forgotten, especially because Enoch was his beloved face from all the Old Testament, and to taking Enoch alive in heaven in his head was attached a whole long course of thought to which he and now gave up, stopping with his eyes looking at the father's clock chain and to the half stretched puddle of the jacket.
To the death he was told so often, Sereza didn’t believe completely.
He did not believe that his loved ones could die, and in particular, that he himself would die.
This was completely impossible and incomprehensible for him.
But they told him that everyone would die; he asked even the people he believed, and they confirmed that; the grandmother also spoke, though unwanted.
But Enoch did not die, and not everyone died. “And why can not everybody even deserve before God and be taken alive to heaven?” I thought the network.
The wicked, that is, the ones that Sereza did not love, could die, but the good could all be like Enoch.
What kind of patriarchs?
Enoch and Enos.
That’s what you said.
Very bad, Serena, very bad.
If you don’t try to find out what is most necessary for a Christian, — said the Father, standing up — what can you do?
I am unhappy with you, and Peter Ignatic (this was the main teacher) is unhappy with you.
I have to punish you.
The father and the teacher were both unhappy with Serezh, and he really taught very badly.
But it was not possible to say that he was an incapable boy.
On the contrary, he was much more capable than the boys whom the teacher put in the example of Serezé.
From his father’s point of view, he didn’t want to learn what he taught.
In fact, he could not learn about it.
He could not because in his soul there were demands more mandatory for him than those declared by the father and the teacher.
These demands were contradictory, and he directly fought with his educators.
He was nine years old, he was a child; but his soul he knew, it was his way, he guarded it, as he guarded his eyes forever, and without the key of love he did not leave anyone in his soul.
His teachers complained that he did not want to learn, and his soul was filled with the thirst of knowledge.
And he studied with Capitanic, with his grandmother, with Nadenka, with Vasily Lukich, not with teachers.
The water that the father and the teacher were waiting for on their wheels, has long been flowing and worked elsewhere.
The father punished Sereza, not leaving him to Nadinka, Lydia Ivanovna's grandmother; but this punishment came to happiness for Sereza.
Vasily Lukich was in spirit and showed him how to make wind mills.
He spent the whole night pursuing work and dreams about how to make such a mold to turn on it: to catch his hands for the wings or to bind himself - and to turn.
He didn’t think about Sereza’s mother all night, but, sitting in bed, he suddenly remembered her and prayed with his words that his mother tomorrow, before his birth, would stop hiding and come to him.
- Vasily Lukić, do you know what I am more, not in the account, prayed?
To learn better?
No is.
The toys?
You will not guess.
Great but a secret.
When it happens, I will tell you.
Not guessed?
No, I will not guess.
You will say, - said Vasily Lukich, smiling, what rarely happened to him. Go to bed, I sweat a candle.
Without a candle, I see what I see and what I pray.
There was little to say the secret! He laughed, said Serena.
When they took the candle, Sereza heard and felt her mother.
She stood above him and lacked him with a loving look.
But the mole appeared, the knife, and everything was mixed, and he slept.
XXVIII
After arriving in St. Petersburg, Vronsky and Anna stayed in one of the best hotels. Vronsky separately, in the lower floor, Anna up with a child, a nurse and a girl, in a large department consisting of four rooms.
On the first day of arrival, Vronsky went to his brother.
He came from Moscow for the business of his mother.
Mother and grandmother met him as usual; they asked him about a trip abroad, they talked about common acquaintances, but they did not mention a word of his relationship with Anna.
But the brother, coming in the morning to Vronsky, himself asked him about her, and Alexey Vronsky directly told him that he looked at his relationship with Karenina as a marriage; that he hopes to arrange a divorce and then marry her, and until then considers her the same his wife as any other wife, and asks him to give it to his mother and his wife.
“If the light does not approve this, it doesn’t matter to me,” Wronsky said, “but if my relatives want to be in a relative relationship with me, they must be in the same relationship with my wife.
The older brother, who always respected the judgment of the minor, did not know well whether he was right or not, until the light decided that question; he himself, on his part, had nothing against it and went with Alexey to Anne.
Wronsky told his brother, as with everyone, you treat Anna as a close acquaintance, but it was supposed that the brother knows their relationship, and it was said that Anna goes to the possession of Wronsky.
Despite all his secular experience, Vronsky, due to the new situation in which he was, was in a strange mistake.
It seemed that he had to understand that the light was closed for him with Anna; but now some unclear considerations were born in his head, that it was so only in the old age, and that now, with rapid progress (he was unseenly for himself now a supporter of all progress), that now the view of society has changed and that the question of whether they will be accepted in society has not yet been solved.
“Naturally,” he thought, “the light of the courtyard will not accept it, but close people can and should understand it as it follows.”
You can sit for a few hours, pressing your feet in the same position, if you know that nothing prevents you from changing the position; but if a person knows that he must sit so with his feet pressed, then there will be cramps, the feet will stand and press to the place where he would like to pull them out.
This is what the military has experienced in relation to the world.
Although he knew in the depths of his soul that the light was closed for them, he tried whether the light would change now and whether it would receive them.
But he soon noticed that although the light was open to him personally, it was closed to Anna.
As in a cat-mouse game, the hands raised for him immediately fell down before Anna.
One of the first females of the Petersburg light, which Wronsky saw, was his cousin Betty.
The end! She joyfully met him. And Anna?
How I am glad!
Where did you stop?
I imagine how after your beautiful journey you are terrible our St. Petersburg; I imagine your honeymoon in Rome.
What is divorce?
Have they done it all?
Wronsky noticed that Betty's admiration dropped when she learned that divorce was not yet.
“The stone will be thrown into me, I know,” she said, “but I will come to Anne; yes, I will come.
Will you wake up here for a long time?
And indeed, she came to Anne the same day; but her tone was no longer the same as before.
She was obviously proud of her courage and wanted Anna to appreciate the faithfulness of her friendship.
She spent no more than ten minutes talking about the world news, and when she left, she said:
You didn’t tell me when the divorce.
Let’s say, I’ve thrown my cheek through the mole, but the other lifted bridges will beat you cold until you get married.
And it is so simple now.
That is done.
Do you eat on Friday?
Sad that we will not see each other anymore.
By the tone of Betsy Wronsky could understand what he should expect from the world; but he made another attempt in his family.
He did not hope for his mother.
He knew that the mother, so admired by Anna during her first date, was now unpleasant to her because she was the cause of her son's career disorder.
But he put great hopes on Vary, his brother’s wife.
It seemed to him that she would not throw the stone and with simplicity and determination would go to Anne and receive her.
On the other day after his arrival, Vronsky went to her and, standing one, directly expressed his desire.
“You know, Alexey,” she said, listening to him, “how I love you and how I’m ready to do everything for you, but I was silent because she knew I can’t help you and Anna Arkadiovna,” she said, especially carefully saying, “Anna Arkadiovna.” Don’t think, please let me condemn.
Never; maybe I would do the same in her place.
I can’t enter, and I can’t enter the details,” she said, looking blindly to his dark face. You need to call things by name.
You want me to go to her, to accept her and thereby rehabilitate her in society; but you understand that I can’t do that.
I have a daughter growing up, and I have to live in the light of my husband.
Well, I will come to Anna Arkadievna; she will realize that I can’t call her to myself or she must do so that she doesn’t meet those who look differently: it will offend her.
I can’t lift her up...
- Yes, I don't think it would have fallen more than a hundred women you're taking! Even darkerly, Vronsky crossed her and silently stood up, realizing that the decision of the bride was constantly changing.
And Alexei! Don’t be angry on me.
Please understand that I’m not guilty,” said Varia, looking at him with a smiling smile.
“I’m not angry on you,” he said so darkly, “but I’m painful twice.
I am worried that this breaks our friendship.
It does not break, but weaken.
You understand that for me it cannot be different.
And so he came out of her.
Wronsky realized that further attempts were foolish and that it was necessary to stay in St. Petersburg these days, as in a strange city, avoiding any contact with the previous light, so as not to be exposed to the troubles and insults that were so tortuous to him.
One of the main disadvantages of the situation in St. Petersburg was that Alexey Alexandrovich and his name seemed to be everywhere.
It was not possible to start talking about anything, so that the conversation did not turn to Alexey Alexandrovich; it was not possible to go anywhere to not meet him.
So at least it seemed to Vronsky, as it seemed to a person with a sick finger, that he, as deliberately, did all about this sickest finger.
The stay in St. Petersburg seemed to Wronsky even harder that all this time he saw in Anne some new, uncomprehensible mood for him.
So she was as if she was in love with him, then she became cold, annoying and irresistible.
She suffered something and hid something from him, and as if she did not notice the insults that poisoned his life, and for her, with her subtility of understanding, had to be even more painful.
XXIX
One of the goals of the trip to Russia for Anna was a date with her son.
Since the day she left Italy, the idea of this date has not ceased to worry her.
And the closer she came to St. Petersburg, the more and more the joy and significance of this date was presented to her.
She didn’t wonder how to arrange this date.
She seemed natural and simply to see her son when she was in one city with him; but when she arrived in St. Petersburg, she suddenly imagined clearly her current position in society, and she realized that it was difficult to arrange a date.
She lived in St. Petersburg for two days.
The thought of the son did not leave her for a moment, but she has not yet seen the son.
Going directly to the house where you could meet Alexey Alexandrovich, she felt she had no right.
They could not let it be offended and offended.
Writing and getting into a relationship with her husband was sad for her and thinking: she could be calm only when she didn’t think about her husband.
To see the son on a walk, knowing where and when he goes out, she was little: she was so preparing for that date, she had so much to tell him, she so wanted to embrace, kiss him.
The old grandmother of Sereza could help her and teach her. But the grandmother was no longer in the house of Alexey Alexandrovich.
In these fluctuations and in the search of the grandmother passed two days.
Learning about Alexey Alexandrovich’s close relationship with Count Lydia Ivanovna, Anna on the third day decided to write her a great labor letter in which she intentionally said that the permission to see her son must depend on her husband’s generosity.
She knew that if the letter was shown to her husband, he, continuing his role of generosity, would not deny her.
The commissioner, who carried the letter, gave her the most cruel and unexpected answer that there will be no answer.
She never felt so humiliated as at the moment when, calling the commissioner, she heard from him a detailed story about how he was waiting and how later he was told, "No one will be answered."
Anna felt humiliated, insulted, but she saw that from her point of view, Count Lydia Ivanovna was right.
She was so strong that she was alone.
She couldn’t and didn’t want to share them with Vronsky.
She knew that, despite the fact that he was the main cause of her misfortune, the question of meeting her with her son would seem to be the most unimportant thing for him.
She knew that he would never be able to understand all the depths of her suffering; she knew that for his cold tone when he mentioned it, she would hate him.
And she was the most afraid of this in the world and therefore hidden from him everything that concerned her son.
Sitting around the house all day, she invented the means to meet her son and stopped on the decision to write to her husband.
She had already written this letter when she was given a letter to Lydia Ivanovna.
The silence of the graphene humiliated and conquered her, but the letter, all that she read between his lines, so annoyed her, so that evil appeared to her in comparison with her passionate and lawful kindness to her son, that she angered against others and ceased to blame herself.
“This coldness is an attraction of feelings,” she said to herself. They just have to offend me and torture the child, and I will obey them. Not for what!
It is worse than me.
I don’t lie at least.”
Soon she decided that tomorrow, on the very day of Serezhi’s birth, she would go straight to her husband’s house, betray people, betray, but in any way she would see her son and destroy that ugly betray they surrounded the unhappy child.
She went to a toy store, bought toys and thought about an action plan.
She will come early in the morning, at eight p.m., when Alexey Aleksandrovich was still, indeed, not up.
She will have the money in her hands, which she will give to the Switzerland and the Lakea, so that they will let her go, and without raising the wave, she will say that she from the cross father Sereza has come to greet and that she is committed to put the toys at the son’s bed.
She did not only prepare the words she would say to her son.
No matter how much she thought about it, she couldn’t invent anything.
On the other day, at eight a.m., Anna came out of the car and called to the big entrance of her former house.
Come and see what you need.
“A little girl,” said Capitanic, not yet dressed, in a jacket and clothes, looking in the window to a lady covered with a wall, standing next to the door.
The Swiss assistant, the unknown Anna, the young little boy, just opened her the door as she had already entered her and, pulling out a three-ruble paper from the muft, suddenly swallowed him in the hand.
The network...
Sergey Alexeych, — she spoke and went forward.
Looking at the paper, a Swiss assistant stopped it at another glass door.
Who do you need? He asked him.
She did not hear his words and did not answer anything.
Noting the interference of the unknown, Capitanic himself went out to her, missed the door and asked what she wanted.
From Prince Skorodumov to Sergey Alekseich, she spoke.
“They didn’t stand up yet,” he looked carefully, said the Swiss.
Anna did not expect that the unchanged atmosphere in the front of the house where she lived for nine years would have so much impact on her.
One after another, memories, joyful and painful, rose up in her soul, and she for a moment forgot why she was here.
Waiting for the outlet? - said Captain, throwing out her a shell.
Having taken the shell, Capitanic looked at her face, recognized her, and silently worshipped her.
“Sorry, your superiority,” he told her.
She wanted to say something, but the voice refused to speak any sounds; with a guilty prayer looking at the old man, she went to the stairs with quick and easy steps.
Going all the way forward and clinging to the foot, Captain was running for her, trying to persecute her.
The teacher may be separated.
I will report.
Anna continued to walk the familiar staircase, without understanding what the old man said.
Please apologize to the left. Sorry that it is unclean. They are now in the former sofa, — washing out, said the Swiss. “Let me, let me, your superiority, I will look,” he said, and, overlooking it, opened the high door and hid behind it. Anna stopped waiting. “You just woke up,” said the Switzerland, coming out of the door again.
And at the moment the Switzerland spoke this, Anna heard the sound of a child’s scream. By one voice, she recognized the son and saw him as alive before her.
Let it go, let it go! She spoke and went into the high door.
Right from the door the bed was standing, and on the bed was sitting, rising up, the boy in one stretched shirt, and, swallowing his body, dragging himself, ended the shirt.
At the moment his lips fell together, they got into a blessed and sleepy smile, and with that smile he slowly and sweetly fell back again.
The network! She screamed, unheardly coming to him.
During the divorce with him and with the flow of love she experienced all this last time, she imagined him as a four-year-old boy, how she loved him most.
Now he was not even the way she left him; he was even further from four years old, still grew up and weakened.
What is it!
How beautiful his face, how short his hair!
How long hands!
How has he changed since she left him!
But it was he, with his head shape, his lips, his soft neck and wide shoulders.
She repeated over the child’s ear.
He stood up again on the lock, guided his head on both sides, as if he was looking for something, and opened his eyes.
He looked quietly and questionably for a few seconds at the mother who stood steadily in front of him, then suddenly gladly smiled and, again closing the blinking eyes, fell, but not back, but to her, to her hands.
The network! My dear boy! — she spoke, breathing and hugging his butterly body with her hands.
The mom! He spoke, moving under her hands, so that the various places of her body could touch her hands.
Sleeply smiling, all with closed eyes, he caught the dirty handbags from the back of the bed behind her shoulders, fell to her, giving her the sweet sleepy smell and the warmth that only exists in the children, and began to stretch her face over her neck and shoulders.
“I knew,” he opened his eyes. It is my birth.
I knew you would come.
I will rise now.
And, saying that, he was asleep.
Anna was thirsty to look at him; she saw how he grew up and turned into her absence.
She recognized and didn’t recognize his naked, so big now, the legs out of the cover, she recognized those weakened hips, those cut short hair wings on the ceiling, in which she so often kissed him.
She felt it all and couldn’t say anything; her tears breathed her.
What are you crying about, mom? He said, completely awake. Mom, what are you crying about? He screamed with a plaxic voice.
I am? I will not cry...
I cry from joy.
I haven’t seen you so long ago.
I’m not going, I’m not going,” she said, swallowing tears and turning up. “Well, now it’s time for you to dress up,” she recovered, adding, silent, and, not leaving his hands out, sat at his bed on a chair on which the dress was prepared.
How do you dress without me?
She wanted to start talking simple and fun, but she couldn’t and turned again.
“I don’t wash with cold water, my dad didn’t say.
Did you not see Vasily Lukich?
He will come.
And you sat on my dress! And the grid was cheerful.
She looked at him and smiled.
Mother, butter, butter and butter. He screamed, throwing back to her and hugging her. As if he was just now, seeing her smile, clearly realized what happened. “It’s not necessary,” he said, taking off her hat.
And as if he saw her again without a hat, he stopped kissing her again.
What did you think about me?
Did you not think I was dead?
I never believed.
Did you not believe, my friend?
I knew, I knew! He repeated his favourite phrase and, holding her hand that lacked his hair, began to press her hand to his mouth and kiss her.
XXX
In the meantime, Vasily Lukich, who didn’t understand first who this lady was, and when he learned from the conversation that it was the same mother that left his husband and that he didn’t know, since he entered the house already after her, was in doubt whether to enter him or not, or to tell Alexey Alexandrovich.
Finally, having understood that his duty is to raise Sereza at a certain time and that therefore he has nothing to understand who is sitting there, mother or another who, but to perform his duty, he clothed, approached the door and opened it.
But the loves of the mother and son, the sounds of their voices, and what they said, all this forced him to change his intention.
He climbed his head and, breathing, closed the door.
“Another ten minutes,” he said to himself, drowning and washing tears.
Between the servants of the house at the same time there was a strong excitement.
Everyone learned that the barney came, and that Capitanic left her, and that she is now in the children's room, and that the barney always enters the children's room at nine, and everyone realized that the meeting of the spouses is impossible and that it should be stopped.
Corney, the camardiner, entering the Switzerland, asked who and how missed it, and, when he learned that Captain was taking and conducting it, he spoke to the old man.
The Switzerland remained silent, but when Kornay told him that he should be killed for this reason, Captainic jumped to him and, putting his hands in front of Kornay, said:
You would not go here!
He served for ten years, and he did not see anything but grace, so that you would now go and say, “Welcome, mol, out!”
You understand politics very well.
So is! You would remember about yourself how a barin to steal the etnotic shells to throw!
The Soldier! -Kornay said negligently and turned to the entering grandmother. “Behold, judge, Mary Ephimovna: He went in, and did not say to anyone, and Cornea turned to her. - Alexey Aleksandrovich will now go out, go to the children's room.
Work, work! said the grandmother. - You would, Kornay Vasilyevich, somehow arrest him, barin, and I will escape, somehow I will bring her. The work, the work!
When the grandmother entered the children's room, Sereza told the mothers about how they fell with Nadinka, climbing from the mountains, and treated three times.
She listened to the sounds of his voice, she saw his face and the play of expression, she felt his hand, but she didn’t understand what he was saying.
She had to go, she had to leave him, only one thing she thought and felt.
She heard the steps of Vassilius Lukich, who approached the door and coughed, she heard the steps of the grandmother who approached; but she sat, as a fool, not able to speak or stand up.
“Burry, butterfly!” said the grandmother, coming to Anne and kissing her hands and shoulders. God brought joy to our newborn.
Nothing you have changed.
“Oh my grandmother, my dear, I didn’t know that you were in the house,” Anna said, waking up for a minute.
“I’m not living, I’m living with my daughter, I’ve come to congratulate you, Anna Arkadievna, the doll!
Her grandmother suddenly cried and began kissing her hand again.
Cretza, glowing with her eyes and a smile and holding one hand for her mother, another for her grandmother, swallowed on the cover with fat naked legs.
The delicacy of his beloved grandmother to his mother brought him into admiration.
The mom!
She often walks to me, and when she’s coming... – he started, but stopped, noticing that the grandmother said something with a scream and that the mother’s face expressed fear and something like a shame that didn’t happen to the mother. She approached him.
My dear! She said.
She couldn’t say goodbye, but the expression of her face said that, and he understood. She spoke the name she called him small, will you not forget me?
You... but she couldn’t talk anymore.
How much later she invented the words she could say to him!
Now she couldn’t and could not say anything.
But Sereza understood everything she wanted to tell him.
He realized that she was unhappy and loved him.
He even understood what the grandmother spoke.
He heard the words, “Always at the ninth hour,” and he realized that it was about the father and that the mother and the father could not meet.
This he understood, but one he could not understand: why there was fear and shame on her face?
She's not guilty, she's afraid of him and is ashamed of something.
He wanted to ask a question that would explain this doubt to him, but he did not dare to do it: he saw that she suffered, and he was sorry for her.
He silently clinged to her and screamed:
Don’t go yet. He will not soon come.
The mother removed him from herself to see if he thought what he said, and in the scared expression of his face she read that he was not only talking about the father, but how he would ask her how he should think about the father.
“Sereza, my friend,” she said, “he loves him, he is better and better than me, and I blame him.
When you grow up, you will judge.
Better is not you! - with despair he cried through tears and, capturing her behind his shoulders, with all the strength he began to press her to himself with the striking hands of tension.
My soul, my little! - Anna spoke and cried as weak, as childish as he cried.
At that time the door opened, Vasily Lukich entered.
At the other door were heard steps, and the grandmother said with a scared scream:
She went and gave her hat to Anna. She fell down to bed and shed, closing her face with her hands.
Anna took these hands, kissed his wet face again, and quickly went out to the door.
Alexey Alexandrovich went to meet her.
When he saw her, he stopped and slept his head.
Despite the fact that she just said that he was better and good for her, with the quick look she threw on him, covering his whole figure with all the details, the feelings of hatred and anger to him and jealousy for his son covered her.
She quickly moved down the valley and, adding a step, almost escaped from the room.
She failed to get out and thus brought home the toys that she with such love and sadness chose yesterday in the store.
XXXI
No matter how much Anna wanted to meet her son, no matter how long she thought about it and was preparing for it, she did not expect that this date would have so much effect on her.
When she returned to her lonely room in the hotel, she couldn’t understand why she was here for a long time.
“Yes, it’s all over, and I’m alone again,” she said to herself and, without taking the hat, sat on the chair standing at the stone.
Upon staying eyes on the bronz clocks standing on the table between the windows, she began to think.
A French girl, brought from abroad, came in and offered her to dress up.
She looked at her with surprise and said, “After.
Lakey offered coffee.
“After,” she said. The Italian nurse, taking the girl, came in with her and brought her to Anne.
A blurry, well-fooded girl, as always, when she saw the mother, turned the naked handbags stretched with nuts with her handbags to the book, and, smiling with a toothless rubber, began to swim like a fish with swim, swim with handbags, swim with them on the crushed slopes of a raised rubber.
It was not possible not to smile, not to kiss the girl, it was not possible not to put her the finger, for which she wiped, throwing up and jumping with the whole body; it was not possible not to put her the mouth, which she, in the form of a kiss, took into the mouth.
And all this did Anna, and took her on her hands, and forced her to jump, and kissed her with a fresh cloth and naked locks; but when she saw this child, it was even more clear to her that the feeling she felt to him was not even love compared to what she felt to Seret.
Everything in this girl was nice, but all of this for a reason didn’t take the heart.
On the first child, even from the unloved person, were put all the forces of love that were not satisfied; the girl was born in the hardest conditions, and on her was not put a hundred portions of the concerns that were put on the first.
Furthermore, there were expectations in the girl, and Sereza was already almost a man, and a loved one; his thoughts and feelings were already fighting; he understood, he loved, he judged her, she thought, remembering his words and views.
And she was not only physically, but spiritually separated with him forever, and it could not be corrected.
She gave the girl a feed, released her and opened a medal in which was a portrait of Sereza when he was almost the same age as the girl.
She stood up and, taking the hat, took an album on the table, in which there were photographic cards of her son in other ages.
She wanted to remove the cards and began to remove them from the album.
She took them all out. There was one, the last, the best card.
He in a white shirt sat on the top of the chair, swallowed his eyes and smiled with his mouth.
This was his most special, best expression.
With the small hunting hands, which were now especially tightly moving with her white thin fingers, she wrapped the card several times, but the card was broken, and she couldn’t get it.
There was no cut knife on the table, and she, pulling out the card that was nearby (this was the Vronsky card made in Rome, in a round hat and with long hair), pulled out the son's card.
“Yes, this is he!” She said, looking at the Vronsky card, and suddenly remembered who was the cause of her current anger.
She never remembered him all this morning. But now suddenly, seeing this courageous, noble, so familiar and cute face, she felt an unexpected flow of love to him.
“Where is he?
How does he leave me alone with my suffering?" - suddenly, with a feeling of guilt, she thought, forgetting that she had hidden from him everything that touched her son.
She sent him to ask him to come to her right now; with a heartbreaking, inventing the words with which she will tell him everything, and the expressions of his love that will comfort her, she was waiting for him.
The messenger returned with the answer that he had a guest, but that he was coming now and ordered to ask her if she could take him with Prince Yashvin who arrived in St. Petersburg.
“No one will come, and since yesterday’s lunch he has not seen me, she thought, he will not come so that I can tell him everything, but he will come with Yashvin.”
And suddenly she came to a strange thought: what if he loved her?
And, overlooking the events of the last days, it seemed to her that in all she saw the confirmation of this terrible thought: and that he did not eat at home yesterday, and that he insisted that they should stop in St. Petersburg, and that even now he was not alone to her, as to avoid dating from eye to eye.
“But he must tell me that.
I need to know that.
If I will know this, then I know what I will do," she said to herself, unable to imagine the situation in which she will be, convinced of his indifference.
She thought he loved her, she felt close to despair, and as a result she felt excited.
She called the girl and went to the cleaning room. Dressing, she took more than all these days, her toilet, as if he could, loving her, again love for her to be the dress and the hairstyle that went more to her.
She heard the call before she was ready.
When she went out to the living room, not he, but Yashvin met her with a look.
He looked at the cards of her son, which she forgot on the table, and did not rush to look at her.
“We’re acquainted,” she said, putting her small hand in the huge hand of the confused (which was so strange with his tremendous growth and gross face) Yashvina. Famous since last year, on the races.
“Give,” she said, by a quick move, taking the son from the Vronsky card, which he looked at, and with significantly bright eyes looking at him. Was this year a good race?
Instead of these, I watched the runs on Corso in Rome.
You, however, don’t like foreign life,” she said, gently smiling. I know you and I know all your tastes, though I have little met you.
“It’s very sad for me, because my tastes are becoming more and more bad,” Yashvin said, snacking his left mouth.
Speaking for a while and noticing that Vronsky looked at the clock, Yashvin asked her if she was going to wake up in St. Petersburg for a long time, and, dismantling her huge figure, took the cap.
“It doesn’t seem long,” she said with confusion, looking at Vronsky.
Will we see us anymore? - said Yashvin, standing up and turning to Vronsky. Where do you eat lunch?
“Come to dinner with me,” Anna said firmly, as if she was angry on herself for her trouble, but red, as always, when she expressed her position before a new man. “The lunch is not good here, but I think you’ll see him.
Alexey, from all his comrades, doesn’t love anyone as much as you.
- Very happy, - said Yashvin with a smile, by which Vronsky saw that Anna liked him very much.
Yashvin broke up and went out, Vronsky remained behind.
Are you eating too? She told him.
“I’ve been late,” he replied. Go to!
I’m going to pursue you now, he screamed to Yashvin.
She took him in the hand and, without leaving his eyes, looked at him, looking in the thoughts of what to say to hold him.
“Stay, I have to say something, and when she took her short hand, she pushed her to her neck. No thing I asked him to eat?
“It’s done great,” he said with a quiet smile, opening his smooth teeth and kissing her hand.
- Alexey, did you not change to me? She said, with both hands pressing his hand. Alex, I was sad here.
When will we go?
Soon and soon.
You won’t believe how hard my life is here for me,” he said and stretched his hand.
— Well, go, go! — she said with insult and quickly left him.
XXXII
When Vronsky returned home, Anna was not yet home.
Soon after him, as he was told, a lady came to her, and she left with her.
The fact that she went away did not say where, the fact that she was not yet there, the fact that she was still going somewhere in the morning did not say anything to him, all this, along with the strange exciting expression of her face this morning and with the remembrance of the hostile tone with which she at Yashvina almost broke out of his hand the card of her son, made him think.
He decided that it was necessary to explain to her. He was waiting for her in her living room.
But Anna returned not alone, but brought with her aunt, the old girl, the princess of Oblonskaya.
It was the one who came in the morning and with whom Anna walked for shopping.
Anna seemed to not notice the expressions of Wronsky's face, worried and questionable, and joyfully told him that she bought this morning.
He saw something special happening in it: in the bright eyes, when they slightly stopped on it, there was a tension of attention, and in the speech and movements there was that nerve speed and grace, which at the beginning of their approach so overwhelmed him, and now worried and scared.
Lunch was covered for four.
Everyone has already gathered to go out to the small dining room, as Tushkiewicz arrived with an order to Anne from Princess Betty.
Princess Betty apologized for not coming to forgive; she was unhealthy, but asked Anna to come to her between half the seventh and nine hours.
Wronsky looked at Anna at this time determination, showing that measures were taken so that she did not meet anyone; but Anna seemed to have not noticed that.
“It’s very sad that I can’t get between half seven and nine,” she said, a little smiling.
The princess will be very sorry.
And I too.
Are you going to listen to Patty? Tuskiewicz said.
The Patty?
You give me a thought.
I would go if I could get the bed.
“I can get,” Tushkiewicz called.
“I would be very, very grateful to you,” Anna said. Do you want to dinner with us?
Vronsky sparked slightly with his shoulders.
He did not understand what Anna did.
Why did she bring this old princess, why did she let Tuskhevich eat, and, most surprisingly, why did she send him to the bed?
Was it possible to think that in her position to go to the Patty subscription, where will all her familiar light be?
He looked at her with a serious look, but she answered him with the same exciting, not a fun, not a desperate look, the meaning of which he could not understand.
After lunch, Anna was aggressively fun: she was like cocktailing with Tushkiewicz and Yashvin.
When they got up from lunch and Tushkiewicz went to the bed, and Yashvin went to smoke, Vronsky came down with him to himself. After sitting a while, he fled up.
Anna was already dressed in a bright silk with a barhat dress she wiped in Paris, with an open chest, and with a white costly circle on her head, shining her face and especially profitable showing her bright beauty.
Are you going to the theater? He said, trying not to look at her.
Why are you so scared to ask? Again insulted that he didn’t look at her, she said. Why should I not drive?
He did not understand the meaning of his words.
“Naturally, there’s no reason,” he swallowed and said.
“That’s what I’m saying,” she said, deliberately without understanding the irony of his tone, and calmly wrapping the long and hearty gloves.
Anna for God! What with you? He said, waking her up, just as her husband once said to her.
I don’t understand what you’re asking.
You know you cannot drive.
Why to?
I am not going alone.
The princess Barbara went to dress up, she will go with me.
He broke his shoulders with a look of disappointment and disappointment.
But you don’t know, he started.
I don’t want to know! She almost screamed. I don’t want.
I wonder what I did?
No, no and no.
And if it was the same again, first, it would be the same.
For us, for me and for you, only one thing is important: whether we love each other.
Others have no reason.
Why do we live here and not see each other?
Why I can’t drive.
I love you, and I don't care, she said in Russian, with a special, uncomprehensible glowing eye looking at him, if you didn't change.
Why do you not look at me?
He looked at her.
He saw all the beauty of her face and clothes, always so cool to her.
But now it was her beauty and elegance that irritated him.
“My feeling can’t change, you know, but I ask you not to ride, I ask you,” he said again in French with a gentle prayer in his voice, but with a cold look.
She didn’t hear the words, but she saw the cold of her eyes and responded with anger:
I ask you to tell me why I don’t have to go.
Because it could cause you to do that, he was laughing.
I don’t understand anything.
Yashvin n'est pas compromettant, and the princess Barbara is nothing worse than others.
Here is she too.
XXXIII
Vronsky for the first time experienced against Anna a sense of obsession, almost anger for her deliberately misunderstanding of his position.
This feeling was further aggravated by the fact that he couldn’t express her the reason for his obsession.
If he had told her exactly what he thought, he would say, "In this dress, with a well-known princess to appear in the theater, it means not only to recognize his position of the deceased woman, but also to challenge the light, that is, to give up it forever."
He couldn’t tell her that.
“But how can she not understand this, and what is done in her?” He spoke to himself.
He felt that at the same time his respect for her decreased and increased the consciousness of her beauty.
He returned to his room and, sitting down to Yashwin, stretching his long legs on the chair and the beef canyon with rural water, ordered himself to give the same.
You say, Powerful Lankovsky.
It’s a good horse, and I advise you to buy,” said Yashvin, looking at the dark face of the companion. - He has a wipes, but his feet and head - you can't desire better.
“I think I’ll take,” Wronsky replied.
Talking about the horses took him, but for a minute he didn’t forget Anna, unwillingly listened to the sounds of the steps along the corridor and looked at the clock on the stone.
- Anna Arkadievna ordered to report that they were going to the theater.
Yashvin, throwing another rubber of canyon into the swallowing water, drank and stood, struggling.
What is? Let’s go,” he said, a little smiling under his ears and showing this smile that he understands the cause of the darkness of Vronsky, but does not give it meaning.
“I’m not going to go,” Wronsky answered darkly.
I have to, I promised.
until the meeting.
And then come to the chair, take the Krasin's chair, — added Yashvin, coming out.
No, I have a matter.
“With the wife care, with the non-wife even worse,” Yashvin thought, leaving the hotel.
Wronsky, left alone, stood up from the chair and began to walk in the room.
“Now what?
The fourth subscription...
Egor with his wife there and his mother probably.
This means that all St. Petersburg is there.
Now she came in, removed the shell and came out to light.
Tushkiewicz, Yashvin, the princess of Barbara... he imagined himself. What am I?
Or am I afraid, or have I transferred her protection to Tushkiewicz?
Whatever you see, it is stupid, stupid.
And why does she put me in such a position?” He said, with his hand.
Through this movement, he caught the table, on which the land water and the graffiti were standing with a canyon, and he almost hit him.
He wanted to catch, destroy and pushed his foot to the table and called.
“If you want to serve me,” he said to the cabinet officer, “therefore remember your business.
So that was not.
You have to remove.
The servant, feeling innocent, wanted to justify himself, but when he looked at the bar, he realized in his face that it was just to silence, and, quickly swinging, he fell down on the cover and began to see the whole and broken rubber and bottles.
It’s not your business, go to clean the lacky and prepare me a frak.
Vronsky entered the theatre in the ninth half.
The show was all over.
The capellin-oldman took the shub from Vronsky and, after knowing him, called "your brightness" and suggested not to take the number, but simply to scream Fedor.
There was no one in the light corridors, except a capelliner and two lakes with hips on their hands listening to the door.
Behind the closed door, the sound of a cautious accompaniment of the stackcat orchestra and one female voice was heard, which clearly spoke the musical phrase.
The door opened, passing the passing capelliner, and the phrase coming to the end clearly hit the hearing of Vronsky.
But the door immediately closed, and Vronsky didn’t hear the end of the phrase and the cadance, but understood by the tremendous handblocking of the door that the cadance was over.
When he entered the hall brightly enlightened by lights and bronze gas horns, the noise continued.
On the scene, the singer, glowing with naked shoulders and diamonds, swallowing and smiling, gathered with the help of the tenor, which put her in the hand, unpleasantly flying through the ramp butter, and approached the lord with the midst of the glowing bright hair, pulling his long hands through the ramp with some thing, — and the whole audience in the parter, as in the beds, swallowed, pulled forward, cried and cried.
Capelmeister at his elevation helped in the transmission and fixed his white head.
Vronsky entered the middle of the parter and, stopped, began to look.
A little less than ever, he turned his attention to the familiar, usual environment, to the scene, to this noise, to all this familiar, uninteresting, scary gathering of spectators in the battle of the theatre.
The same as always, there were some ladies and some officers on the lie; the same, God knows who, colorful women, and the monsters, and the surthouses; the same dirty crowd in the paradise, and in all this crowd, in the lie, and in the first rows, there were a man of forty true men and women.
And on these oasis Vronsky immediately turned attention and immediately entered a relationship with them.
The act ended when he entered, and therefore he, not entering the brother's bed, passed to the first row and stopped at the ramp with Serpukhovsky, who, swallowing his knees and swallowing a cabl in the ramp and seeing him far away, suspected himself with a smile.
Wronsky had not seen Anna yet, he did not deliberately look at her side. But he knew in the direction of views where she was.
He looked unnoticably, but did not look for it; waiting for the worst, he was looking by the eyes of Alexey Alexandrovich.
To his fortune, Alexey Alexandrovich was not in the theatre this time.
How little military is left in you! He told her Serpukhovsky. A diplomat, an artist, this is something.
“Yes, I returned home, so I gave a frak,” Vronsky replied, smiling and slowly taking the binocle.
That’s what I admit I’m jealous of you.
When I return from abroad and wear it, he touched the exelbants, I am sorry for freedom.
Serpukhovsky has long been handed for the service activity of Vronsky, but he still loved him and now he was kind with him.
Sorry, you’ve been late to the first act.
Vronsky, listening with one ear, translated the binocle from the benuar to the blanketage and looked at the beds.
Under the lady in the turbine and the pleasant old woman, angry shining in the glass of the moving binocle, Vronsky suddenly saw the head of Anna, proud, surprisingly beautiful and smiling in the frame of the circles.
She was in the fifth line, twenty steps away from him.
She sat in front and, slightly turned, said something to Yashwin.
The placement of her head on her beautiful and wide shoulders and the restrained and exciting glow of her eyes and the whole face reminded him of her as perfect as he saw her on the ball in Moscow.
But he felt that beauty completely differently now.
In his sense there was now nothing mysterious to her, and therefore her beauty, although stronger than before, attracted him, at the same time now insulted him.
She didn’t look at him, but Vronsky felt that she had already seen him.
When Vronsky again threw the binocle to that side, he noticed that the princess Barbara was especially red, unnaturally laughing and constantly looking at the neighboring bed; and Anna, putting the veer and putting them on the red barhat, looked somewhere, but she doesn't see and obviously doesn't want to see what's happening in the neighboring bed.
On the face of Yashvin was the expression that was on him when he lost.
He swallowed, swept deeper and deeper into his mouth his left mouth and cried on the same neighboring bed.
In this bed, on the left, there were Carthage.
Vronsky knew them and knew that Anna was familiar with them.
Cartasova, a weak, small woman, stood in her bed and, turning her back to Anne, wearing the jewelry that her husband gave her.
Her face was bright and angry, and she said something excited.
Cartasov, a thick butterfly gentleman, constantly looking at Anna, tried to calm his wife.
When the wife came out, the husband slowed for a long time, searching for the eyes of Anna and apparently wishing to worship her.
But Anna, obviously not deliberately noticing him, turning back, said something to Yashwin, who was swallowed to her with a cut head.
Cartasov went out without worship, and the bed remained empty.
Wronsky didn’t understand what exactly happened between Carthage and Anna, but he realized that something humiliating happened to Anna.
He understood this by what he saw, and mostly by the face of Anna, who, he knew, gathered his last strength to endure the role he took on.
And this role of external calm was quite successful for her.
Who didn’t know her and her circle, didn’t hear all the expressions of compassion, anger and surprising of women, that she allowed herself to appear in the light and to appear so visible in her circular decoration and with her beauty, they loved the peace and beauty of this woman and did not suspect that she experienced the feelings of a man exposed to the shameful layer.
Knowing that something happened, but not knowing what it was, Vronsky experienced a painful anxiety and hoping to find out something, went to his brother’s bed.
By orderly choosing the opposite of Anna's logs the spring of the parter, he, coming out, encountered his former military commander, who talked to two acquaintances.
Vronsky heard the name of the Karenians was spoken, and noticed how the commander of the army was hurry to call Vronsky loudly, considerably looking at the speakers.
Oh my Vronsky!
When to the Regiment?
We can’t let you go without a pire.
You are the most indigenous of us, said the commander of the army.
“I will not succeed, very sadly, until another time,” said Vronsky and fled up the stairs to his brother’s bed.
The old cousin, the mother of Vronsky, with her steel bottles, was in the bed of his brother.
Varia and the princess Sorokin met him in the corridor of the beletage.
Leaving the princess Sorokin to his mother, Varia gave her hand to the dever and immediately began to talk to him about what interested him.
She was so excited as he rarely saw her.
“I find it low and ugly, and Madame Kartasova had no right.
Madame Karenina – she started.
So what?
I don’t know.
How did you not hear?
You know that I will be the last to hear about it.
Is there any worse creature than this Carthage?
What did she do?
My husband told me...
She insulted Karenina.
Her husband began to talk to her through the bed, and Cartasova made him a scene.
She, they say, said something offensive loud and went out.
“Count, your mother will call you,” said the princess Sorokin, looking out of the door of the bedroom.
“And I’m waiting for you,” said his mother, smiling and smiling. You are not seen at all.
The son saw that she couldn’t hold the smile of joy.
Hello my mom.
I went to you, he said cold.
Why don’t you go to La Cour a Madame Karenine? She added when the princess Sorokin left. It makes sensation. He forgets the pattie for her.
“Mama, I asked you not to tell me about it,” he replied, turning down.
I say what everyone says.
Vronsky did not answer anything and, said a few words to the prince Sorokina, went out.
In the door he met his brother.
And Alexei! Brother said. What a shit!
Crazy, nothing more.
I wanted to go to her now...
Let’s go together.
Vronsky did not listen to him.
He went down with fast steps: he felt he had to do something, but he didn’t know what.
The annoyance of her for putting herself and him in such a false position, along with the regret to her for her suffering, worried him.
He went down to the parter and went straight to the Benuar of Anna. Benuar stood at Stremov and spoke to her:
There are no more tenors.
Le moule en est brise.
Vronsky worshipped her and stopped, healing with Stremov.
“You seem to have arrived late and didn’t hear the best aria,” Anna told Vronsky, laughing as he seemed, looking at him.
“I’m a bad appreciator,” he said, looking strictly at her.
“As the prince Yashvin,” she said with a smile, “who finds that Patty is singing too loud. “Thank you,” she said, taking in the small hand in a long gloves lifted the Vronsky offices, and suddenly in that moment the beautiful face drowned her.
She stood up and went into the depths.
Noting that the next act of the bed she remained empty, Vronsky, exciting the silence of the quiet at the sounds of the theater cabinet, went out of the parter and went home.
Anna was at home.
When Vronsky came to her, she was alone in the same dress she was in the theater.
She sat on the first chair at the wall and looked in front of herself.
She looked at him and immediately took the previous position.
“Anna,” he said.
You are guilty of everything! She screamed with tears of despair and anger in her voice, rising up.
I asked, I asked you not to drive, I knew you would be unpleasant.
It was unpleasant! she screamed. It is horrible!
No matter how long I live, I will not forget it.
She said it was a shame to sit next to me.
“The words of a foolish woman,” he said, “but why to risk, to cause...
I hate your tranquility.
You shouldn’t have brought me to that.
If you loved me...
And Anna!
What is the question about my love?
“Yes, if you loved me like me, if you suffered like me,” she said, with a speech of fear looking at him.
He was sorry for her and still boring.
He confessed her in his love because he saw that only one thing can now calm her, and did not blame her with words, but in his soul he blame her.
And those belief in love that seemed to him so silent that he was conscious to speak them, she swallowed into herself and slightly calmed.
The next day after that, completely reconciled, they went to the village.
Part 6
I
Daria Alexandrovna spent the summer with the children in Pokrovsk, with her sister Kitty Levina.
In her name the house was completely broken down, and Levin and his wife agreed to spend the summer with them.
Stephan Arkadic strongly approved this device.
He said he was very regretted that the service prevented him from spending the summer with his family in the village, which would be the highest pleasure for him, and, while staying in Moscow, he came occasionally to the village for a day and two.
In addition to Oblonsky with all the children and the governor, this summer the old princess was hosted with the Levinians, considering it a duty to watch for the unexperienced daughter, who was in such a position. Furthermore, Varenka, a foreign friend of Kitty, fulfilled her promise to come to her when Kitty is married, and hosted her friend.
They were all the relatives and friends of Levi's wife. And although he loved them all, he was a little sad about his Levin world and the order that was blurred by this flow of the “Sharbatic element,” as he said to himself.
Of his native hosts this summer they had one Sergey Ivanovich, but that was not a Levin, but a Koznyševic warehouse man, so the Levin spirit was completely destroyed.
There was now so many people in the long desert house of Levin that almost all the rooms were occupied, and almost every day the old princess had to sit at the table, count all and plant the thirteen grandson or grandson for a special table.
And for Kitty, carefully engaged in the farming, there was a lot of concern about the acquisition of chickens, insects, flows, which during the summer appetites of guests and children came out very much.
The whole family was sitting for lunch.
The children of Dolly and the governor and Vasenka made plans about where to go for the fungi. Sergey Ivanovich, who was enjoying among all the guests respect for his mind and teachings, which came almost to worship, surprised everyone, interfering in the conversation about the fungi.
Take me with you.
I really like to walk for the fungi, - he said, looking at Varenka, - I find it a very good job.
“Well, we’re very happy,” rednessed Varenka.
Kitty looked greatly with Dolly.
The proposal of the scientist and intelligent Sergey Ivanovich to go for the fungi with Vasenka confirmed some Kitty's assumptions, recently very engaged in it.
She rushed to talk to her mother so that her eyes were not noticed.
After lunch, Sergey Ivanovich sat with his cup of coffee at the window in the living room, continuing the beginning conversation with his brother and looking at the door from which the children gathered for the fungi had to come out.
Levin sat in the window near his brother.
Kitty stood next to her husband, obviously waiting for the end of an uninterested conversation to tell him something.
“You have changed a lot since you got married, and to the best,” said Sergey Ivanovich, smiling Kitty and obviously little interested in the beginning of the conversation, but remained faithful to your passion to defend the most paradoxical topics.
- Katya, you're not good to stand, - said her husband, moving her chair and looking at her greatly.
- Well, yes, and never, - added Sergey Ivanovich, seeing the escaped children.
In front of all the sides, the galop, in his tight clothes, with the basket and the hat of Sergey Ivanovich, Tanya was running straight on him.
Courageously escaping to Sergey Ivanovich and brilliant eyes, so similar to the beautiful eyes of his father, she gave Sergey Ivanovich his hat and made the appearance she wanted to wear on him, with a slave and a gentle smile mitigating her will.
“Varenka is waiting,” she said, carefully wearing a hat on him, with the smile of Sergey Ivanovich I saw that it was possible.
She stood in the door, dressed in a yellow silk dress, with a white plate attached to her head.
“I’m going, I’m going, Barbara Andreevna,” said Sergey Ivanovich, drinking from a cup of coffee and turning on the pockets of plates and a cigarette.
What the beauty of my cowboy!
and? Kitty told her husband as soon as Sergey Ivanovich stood up.
She said this so that Sergey Ivanovich could hear her what she obviously wanted. And how beautiful, noble and beautiful!
The cook! Kitty screamed, “You’re going to be in the milk forest?”
We will come to you.
“You are decisively forgotten your position, Kitty,” said the old princess, rushing out of the door. You cannot cry so.
Warenka, hearing the voice of Kitty and the speech of her mother, quickly, with easy steps, approached Kishi.
The speed of movements, the paint that covered the vibrant face, all showed that something unusual was happening in it.
Kitty knew it was unusual, and watched her carefully.
She now invited Varenka only then to mindfully bless her for that important event, which, according to Kitty, had to take place today after lunch in the forest.
“Warenka, I’ll be very happy if one thing happens,” she said with a scream, kissing her.
Will you go with us? “Sorry,” said Varenka to Levin, making it seem that she didn’t hear what she was told.
I’ll go, but only to the rubber, and I’ll stay there.
What is hunting for you? Kitty said.
“We need to look at and take into account new furas,” said Levin. Where will you be?
on the terrace.
II
All women were gathered on the terrace.
They liked to sit there after lunch, but now there was still a matter.
In addition to the shaving of the breaks and the binding of the swallowers, whom all were busy, today there was cooked the cooking by the new method for Agaphya Mikhailovna, without adding water.
Kitty introduced this new method they used at home. Agaphya Mikhailovna, who was previously assigned this case, believing that what was done in the house of the Levites could not be bad, still flushed water into the cluster and land, claiming that it was impossible otherwise; she was put in it, and now the malin was cooked by all, and Agaphya Mikhailovna had to be brought to the conviction that even without water the cooking will go well.
Agaphya Mikhailovna, with a burned and angry face, swallowed hair and naked on the lock with thick hands, roundly climbed the ceiling over the hot and darkly looked at the maline, desiring from all her soul that it would be frozen and not digest.
The princess, feeling that on her, as the chief consultant for the cooking of malina, should be directed the anger of Agaphya Mikhailovna, tried to make it seem that she was busy with others and was not interested in malina, spoke of a stranger, but the cherry looked at the burn.
“I always buy clothes for girls on cheap goods,” the princess said, continuing the beginning conversation. She added, addressing Agatha Mikhailovna. “You don’t have to do it yourself, and it’s hot,” she stopped Kitty.
“I’m going to do,” said Dolly and, stood up, cautiously began to drive a teaspoon on the sinking sugar, occasionally, to stick off the teaspoon that came to her, putting it on a plate covered with a variety of colors, yellow and pink, with a flowing blood syrup, pences.
“How will they slide it with the tea!” She thought of her children, remembering how she herself, who was a child, was surprised that the big people don’t eat the best – the penny.
“Steve says it’s much better to give money,” Dolly continued a fun conversation about how to give people, but...
How money can be! The princess and Kitty spoke in one voice. They value it.
“Well, I, for example, bought our Matrine Semenovne last year, not poplin, but like that,” the princess said.
I remember she was in your name.
- A lovely pattern; so simple and noble.
I wanted to do it myself if she didn’t have it.
As with Varenka. So cute and cheap.
“Well, now it seems ready,” Dolly said, throwing the syrup out of a teaspoon.
When the cranes are ready.
Cook again, Agatha Mikhailovna.
These mushrooms! — Angry said Agaphya Mikhailovna. It will be the same, she added.
Oh, how nice he is, don’t scare him! - Kitty suddenly said, looking at the thief who sat on the perle and, turning the slurry of the maline, began to blame him.
“Yes, but you’d be far from the heat,” said mother.
“A propos de Varenka,” Kitty said in French, as they said all the time, that Agaphia Mikhailovna would not understand them. You know, mom, that I am waiting for a decision now.
You understand which.
How good it was!
What a mastery swah! She said Dolly. How carefully and comfortably she puts them down...
- No, tell me mom, what do you think?
What to think?
He (He understood Sergey Ivanovich) could always make the first party in Russia; now he is not so young, but still, I know, for him and now would go many...
She’s very good, but she could...
“No, you’ll understand, Mom, why it’s not better for him and her to invent.
The first is beauty! - Kitty said, throwing one finger.
“She likes him very much, that’s true,” Dolly confirmed.
Then he takes such a position in the light that he does not need any state or position in the light of his wife.
He needs one — a good, cute wife, quiet.
“Yes, you can be calm with her,” Dolly confirmed.
The third is that she loves him. And that is...
That would be so good!
I wait for them to come out of the forest, and all will be resolved.
I will see in my eyes now.
I would be so happy!
What do you think, Dolly?
You don’t worry. You don’t have to worry, my mother said.
I am not worried, mom.
I think he will make an offer now.
“Oh, it’s as strange as when a man makes an offer...
There is some obstacle, and suddenly it will break down, said Dolly, thinkingly smiling and reminding her past with Stephan Arkadić.
“Mama, how did your dad offer you? Soon she asked Kitty.
“There was nothing unusual, very simple,” the princess answered, but her face all glowed out of that memory.
No, but how?
Did you love him before you were allowed to speak?
Kitty experienced a special beauty in the fact that she and her mother were now able to talk likewise about these most important issues in the life of a woman.
– Of course, she loved; he went to us in the village.
But how did it decide? the mom?
Do you think you have invented something new?
Everything is the same: resolved with eyes, smile...
How good you said, mom!
It was with eyes and a smile, Dolly confirmed.
What words did he say?
What did the bone tell you?
He wrote a melom.
It was surprising...
How it has long seemed to me! She said.
Three women thought about the same thing.
Kitty first broke the silence.
She remembered all this last before her marriage winter and her enthusiasm for Vronsky.
“One... this is Varenka’s past passion,” she said, in a natural connection of thought, remembering it. I wanted to tell Sergei Ivanovich to prepare it.
They, all men, — she added — are terribly jealous of our past.
“Not all,” Dolly said. You judge it by your husband.
He is still suffering by remembrance of Vronsky.
Yes?
It is true right?
– Yes, – thoughtfully smiling with her eyes, Kitty replied.
“But I don’t know,” said the princess-mother for her mother’s observation of the daughter, “what was your past that could bother him?
What did Vronsky take care of you?
This happens to every girl.
“No, that’s what we’re talking about,” Kitty said red.
“No, let me,” continued my mother, “and then you didn’t want me to allow me to negotiate with Vronsky.
Do you remember?
Oh my mom! With the expression of suffering, Kitty said.
You will not hold you now...
Your relationships could not go further than should; I would have called him myself.
But you, my soul, can’t worry.
Please remember this and relax.
I am calm, mom.
“How happy it was for Kitty that Anna came,” Dolly said, “and how unhappy it was for her.
That’s the opposite, she added, affected by her thought. At that time, Anna was so happy, and Kitty considered herself unhappy.
exactly the opposite!
I often think about her.
There is someone to think about!
A ugly, disgusting woman, without a heart, — said her mother, not able to forget that Kitty came out not for Vronsky, but for Levin.
“What a hunt to say about it,” Kitty said, “I don’t think about it and I don’t want to think about it.
And I don’t want to think,” she repeated, listening to her husband’s familiar steps on the stairs of the terrace.
What is it, and I don’t want to think? He asked Levin, entering the terrace.
But no one answered him, and he did not repeat the question.
“I’m sorry that I disturbed your women’s kingdom,” he said, looking unhappy at all and realizing that they were talking about something that they’t talk about with him.
For a second he felt that he shared the feeling of Agaphya Mikhailovna, the dissatisfaction of cooking malin without water, and in general of the stranger sherbat influence.
He smiled, however, and came to Kitty.
Well what? He asked her, with the same expression looking at her, with whom everyone was now addressing her.
“Nothing, beautiful,” Kitty said, smiling, “and how do you do?
Three times more weight than a telegram.
How to drive for kids?
I ordered to put.
Do you want Kitty on the train? I accused my mother.
A step, the princess.
Levin never called the princess mother as the cousins do, and it was unpleasant to the princess.
But Levin, despite the fact that he loved and respected the princess very much, could not, without poisoning the feelings of his deceased mother, call her so.
“Let’s go with us, mom,” Kitty said.
I don’t want to look at these injustices.
I will go on foot.
I am healthy. Kitty stood up, came to her husband and took him in the hand.
“Good, but everything is fine,” said the princess.
What, Ahaphya Mikhailovna, is cooking ready? - said Levin, smiling Agaphie Mikhailovna and wanting to entertain her. Good for the new?
It must be, well.
According to us, confused.
“It’s better, Agaphya Mikhailovna, it’s not going to throw out, but we’ve got the ice now, and it’s not going to go anywhere,” Kitty said, immediately realizing the intention of his husband and with the same feeling addressing the old man. “But your sweetness is what your mother says, she didn’t eat anywhere like that,” she added, smiling and repairing her.
Agaphia Mikhailovna looked at Kitty angry.
You will not comfort me, baby.
I’m looking at you with him, and I’m glad,” she said, and this brutal expression with him, not with them, touched Kitty.
- Go with us for the fungi, you show us places. - Agaphia Mikhailovna smiled, scratched sexual, as if I would say; "And I would like to get angry on you, you can't."
“Let’s do, please, according to my advice,” said the old princess, “loading the paper above the oven and moisturizing it with the rum, and without the ice there will never be a fist.
Kitty was delighted with the opportunity to go from eye to eye with her husband, because she noticed the shadow of anger fled on his so vivid all-reflecting face at the moment he entered the terrace and asked what they were talking about, and he was not answered.
When they walked on foot in front of others and went out of the face of the house on a rooted, dustful and rooted road with rubble wheels and grains, she grew stronger on his hand and pushed it to her.
He has already forgotten a minute of unpleasant impression, and alone with her he experienced now, when the thought of her pregnancy for a minute did not leave him, then, even new to him and a joyful, completely pure of sensuality enjoyment of the proximity to the beloved woman.
There was nothing to say, but he wanted to hear the sound of her voice, as well as the sight that changed now during pregnancy.
In the voice, as in the sight, there was softness and seriousness, similar to those of people constantly focused on one favorite thing.
Would you not get tired?
Stop more, he said.
“No, I’m so happy to be with you alone, and I admit, no matter how good I’m with them, unfortunately our winter nights are both.
It was good, and it was even better.
Both are better, he said, pressing her hand.
Do you know what we talked about when you entered?
About the cooking?
Yes, and about cooking; but then about how they make an offer.
A! - said Levin, more listening to the sound of her voice than the words she spoke, all the time thinking about the road that was now going through the forest, and walking around the places where she could be wrong.
What about Sergei Ivanić and Varenka?
Have you noticed?
I wish it very much, she continued. How do you think about it? She looked at him in the face.
“I don’t know what to think,” Levin answered with a smile. Sergey is very strange to me in this regard.
I have told...
He was in love with the girl who died.
It was when I was a child; I know it by tradition.
I remember him then.
He was surprisingly gentle.
But since then I’ve watched him with women: he’s kind, some like him, but you feel they’re just men for him, not women.
Yes, but now with Warren...
It seems that there is something...
Maybe, and there is...
But he needs to know...
He is a special, amazing person.
He lives a spiritual life.
He is a pure and high soul man.
How?
Does that humiliate him?
No, but he is so accustomed to living the same spiritual life that he cannot reconcile with reality, and Varenka is still reality.
Levin has already used to now boldly speaking his thought, without giving himself trouble dressing it in the exact words; he knew that his wife in such loving minutes as now, will understand what he wants to say, with a clue, and she understood it.
Yes, but there is no reality in it like in me; I understand that he would never love me.
It is spiritual...
“No, he loves you so much, and I’m always so happy that my people love you.
He is good to me, but...
“But not as with Nicoletta the dead... you loved one another,” Levin concluded. Why not talk? He added it. I sometimes blame myself: it ends with what you forget.
Oh, what a terrible and beautiful man...
So what did we talk about? “I was silent,” said Levin.
“You think he can’t fall in love,” Kitty said, translating into his own language.
“It’s not that he can’t fall in love,” said Levin, smiling, “but he doesn’t have the weakness he needs.
I’ve always been jealous of him, and now, even when I’m so happy, I’m still jealous.
Are you jealous that he can’t fall in love?
“I’m jealous that he’s better than me,” said Levin, smiling. He does not live for himself.
His whole life is subject to debt.
And so he can be calm and satisfied.
And you? - With a laughing, loving smile, Kitty said.
She could not express the course of thought that made her smile; but the last conclusion was that her husband, who admired his brother and humiliated himself before him, was unrighteous.
Kitty knew that this indifference came from his love for his brother, from the feeling of awareness that he was too happy, and especially from his desire to be better — she loved it in him and therefore smiled.
And you?
What are you dissatisfied? She asked with the same smile.
Her uncertainty to his dissatisfaction rejoiced him, and he unconsciously urged her to express the reasons for her uncertainty.
“I’m happy but unhappy with myself,” he said.
How can you be unhappy if you are happy?
How do I tell you?
I don’t want anything except that you can’t come here.
Oh, yeah, you can't jump so! - he broke his conversation with the accusation that she made a too fast move, passing through the slope on the trap. But when I argue about myself and compare myself with others, especially with my brother, I feel bad.
Well what? Kitty continued with the same smile. Are you not doing it for others too?
And your huthor, and your household, and your book?
“No, I feel especially now: you’re guilty,” he said, pressing her hand, “that’s not that.
I do it so, slightly.
If I could love all this, how I love you... then I’m doing the last time as a given lesson.
What do you say about Daddy? He asked Kitty. What, and he’s bad because he didn’t do anything for a common thing?
He is? No is.
But you have to have that simplicity, clarity, kindness like your father, and do I have that?
I do not do and suffer.
You did all that.
When you didn’t and didn’t, he said with a look at her stomach, which she understood, I put all my strength on work; and now I can’t, and I’m consciously; I do just as a given lesson, I guess...
Would you like to change with Sergei Ivanich? Kitty said. Would you like to do this common thing and love this assigned lesson like him, and only?
“Not,” said Levin. I am so happy that I don’t understand anything.
Do you think he will make an offer now? He added and silenced.
I think, and not.
I just really want it.
Here is the post. She swallowed and broke a wild roof on the edge of the road. “Well, count, he will do, he will not make an offer,” she said, giving him a flower.
“He will do, he will not do,” said Levin, breaking the white, narrow, passed leaves.
No No No No! Getting him in the hand, Kitty stopped him, watching his fingers with enthusiasm. You broke two.
“Well, but this little one isn’t in the account,” said Levin, breaking down the short, small leaflet. The ambulance has reached us.
Are you tired, Kitty? The princess screamed.
Not a few.
And then sit, if the horses are silent, and step.
It was not worth sitting. It was near, and everyone went on foot.
IV
The cook in her white plate on black hair, surrounded by children, kindly and fun busy with them and obviously excited about the possibility of explanation with the man she loves, was very attractive.
Sergey Ivanovich walked next to her and continued to love her.
Looking at her, he remembered all the sweet words he heard from her, all that he knew good about her, and increasingly realized that the feeling he experienced to her is something special, experienced by him long ago and only once, in his first youth.
The feeling of joy from the proximity to her, increasing, came to the point that, giving her in her suitcase the enormous on a thin root found by them with the curved ends of the brass fungus, he looked in her eyes and, seeing the color of the joy and fearful excitement that covered her face, he confused himself and smiled her silently with such a smile that spoke too much.
“If so,” he said to himself, “I have to think and decide, rather than give myself, as a boy, to the passion of a minute.”
“I’ll go now, independently of all, to gather the fungi, and then my acquisitions are invisible,” he said, and went one from the tubes of the forest, where they walked on the silk-low grass between the rare old berries, in the middle of the forest, where between the white berries stools the stools of the axis and the shadows of the shadows were shadows.
After going for the fourteenth step and going for the burst of a full-colored shell with its pink-red shells, Sergey Ivanovich, knowing that he is not seen, stopped.
It was completely quiet around him.
Only above the trees under which he was standing, like a bees’ roy, the mice nourished, and sometimes the voice of the children was brought.
Suddenly, near the edge of the forest, the contrast voice of Varenka, called Grishu, sounded, and a joyful smile appeared on the face of Sergey Ivanovich.
Being aware of this smile, Sergey Ivanovich climbed inappropriately with his head to his state and, delivering a cigarette, began to smoke.
He could not for a long time burn a spice on the stool of the berry.
A soft film of the white cortex covers phosphorus, and the fire turns.
Finally one of the bricks burned, and the smoke smoke of the cigarette swallowing with a wide scatter stretched forward and up over the cage under the falling branches of the berry.
Following his eyes behind the smoke strip, Sergey Ivanovich went a quiet step, considering his state.
“Why not? He thought. If it was an explosion or a passion, if I had only experienced that attraction, it was a mutual attraction (I can say the mutual), but I would feel that it is contrary to the whole of my life, if I would feel that by giving up to that attraction, I am changing my call and duty... but that’s not.
One thing I can say against is that, after losing Marie, I said to myself that I will remain faithful to her memory.
One thing I can say against my feelings.
“It’s important,” Sergey Ivanovich said, feeling together with the fact that this consideration could not have any importance for him personally, but only portrayed in the eyes of other people his poetic role.
But no matter how much I look for, I will find nothing to say against my feelings.
If I had chosen with one mind, I’t find anything better.”
No matter how much he remembered the women and the girls he knew, he could not remember a girl that would so much unite everything, precisely all the qualities he, coldly thinking, wanted to see in his wife.
She had all the beauty and freshness of youth, but she was not a child, and if she loved him, she loved consciously how a woman should love: that was one thing.
The other: she was not only far from the glory, but obviously had an aversion to the light, and at the same time knew the light and had all those receptions of a woman of good society, without which Sergey Ivanovich was an unthinkable friend of life.
Thirdly, she was religious, and not as a child, indefinitely religious and good, as she was, for example, Kitty; but her life was based on religious beliefs.
Even until the little, Sergey Ivanovich found in her everything he wanted from his wife: she was poor and lonely, so she won’t bring a lot of relatives and their influence to the husband’s house, as he saw it on Kitty, but will be all liable to his husband, what he also always wanted for his future family life.
And that girl, combining all these qualities, loved him.
He was humble, but he could not see it.
And he loved her.
One reason against it was his years.
But his breed is long-lasting, he did not have a single seed hair, no one gave him forty years, and he remembered that Varenka said that only in Russia people at fifty years consider themselves old, and that in France a fifty-year-old man believes himself in the force of the age, and a forty-year-old man - a young man.
But what was the number of years when he felt a young soul as he was twenty years ago?
Was it not the youth that he experienced now, when, coming from the other side again to the edge of the forest, he saw on the bright light of the hair of the sun the gracious figure of Varenka, in a yellow dress and with a basket, a cool light step beyond the stool of the old bridge, and when this impression of the kind of Varenka merged into one with his impressive beauty with the view of the hair-blown yellowed oat field and behind the field of a far old forest, sprinkled with yellowness, throwing in the blue bridge?
His heart was gladly angry.
The feeling of compassion covered him.
He felt he decided.
The garlic, just sitting up to raise the fungus, rose up and looked up with a flexible movement.
By throwing a cigarette, Sergey Ivanovich made a decisive step towards it.
V
“Warvar Andreevna, when I was still very young, I made myself the ideal of a woman I will love and I will be happy to call her my wife.
I lived a long life and now for the first time I found in you what I was looking for.
I love you and I offer you my hand.”
Sergey Ivanovich said this to himself when he was already ten steps from Varenka.
Going down on the knees and protecting the fungi from Grisha with her hands, she called the little Masha.
Here here, here here! The little!
She spoke with her sweet breast voice.
When she saw Sergei Ivanovich coming up, she didn’t rise up or change the position; but everything told him that she felt his approach and pleased with him.
Have you found something? She asked, because of the white plate, turning to him her beautiful, quietly smiling face.
- No one, - said Sergey Ivanovich. And you?
She didn’t answer him, busy with the children that surrounded her.
“Even this, under the branch,” she pointed out to the little Mashe a small raw piece, cut over her thin pink hat with a dry grass, from which she went out.
She stood up when Masha, broken into two white halves, raised the seed. “This reminds me of childhood,” she added, leaving the children next to Sergey Ivanovich.
They took a few steps in silence.
Varenka saw what he wanted to say; she realized what, and died of an excitement of joy and fear.
They went so far away that no one could hear them anymore, but he was still not beginning to speak.
It was better to silence.
After the silence it was easier to say what they wanted to say than after the words about the fungi; but against his will, as if hopeless, Varenka said:
So you found nothing?
However, in the middle of the forest is always less.
Sergey Ivanovich breathed and didn’t answer anything.
He was bored that she talked about the fungi.
He wanted to turn her to the first words she said about her childhood; but, as if against her will, silent for a while, he made a comment on her last words.
I’ve just heard that the white are mostly on the edge, although I don’t know how to distinguish the white.
A few more minutes passed, they left even further from the children and were completely alone.
The heart of Varenka was so bite that she heard his strikes and felt that it was red, bleed and red again.
Being the wife of a man like Koznyshev, after his position with Mrs. Stall, she was the top of happiness.
In addition, she was almost sure that she was in love with him. And now it had to be decided.
She was scared. It was terrible what he would say and what he would not say.
Now or never it had to be explained; that felt Sergey Ivanovich.
Everything, in the sight, in the rumeness, in the abandoned eyes of Varenka, showed a painful expectation.
Sergey Ivanovich saw it and regretted her.
He even felt that not saying anything now meant to offend her.
He quickly repeated in his mind all the arguments in favor of his decision.
He repeated to himself the words with which he wanted to express his proposal; but instead of these words, according to some suddenly thought, he suddenly asked:
What is the difference between white and bright?
The lips of Varenka drowned from anxiety when she replied:
There is almost no difference in the hat, but in the root.
And as soon as these words were spoken, he and she understood that the matter was over, that what was to be spoken will not be spoken, and their excitement, which came before it to the highest level, began to tighten.
- Bear fungus - its root resembles a two-day brown brown brown, - said Sergey Ivanovich already dead.
“Yes, it’s true,” Varenka answered with a smile, and the direction of their walk changed.
They began to approach the children.
Varenka was both painful and shameful, but at the same time she experienced a feeling of relief.
Returning home and crossing all the arguments, Sergey Ivanovich found that he was discuting wrong.
He could not change the memory of Mary.
Silent children, silent children! Even Levin screamed angry on the children, standing in front of his wife to protect her, when a crowd of children with joy flown to them.
After the children left the forest and Sergey Ivanovich with Varenka.
Kitty didn’t have to ask Varenka; she understood by the quiet and somewhat enthusiastic expressions of both sides that her plans were not fulfilled.
Well what? Her husband asked her when they returned home.
“It doesn’t take,” Kitty said, with a smile and a way of speaking, reminding her father that Levin was often pleased to see in her.
How not take?
“Hey,” she said, taking her husband’s hand, lifting her to her mouth and touching her with unopened lips. As the Archbishop kisses his hand.
Who does not take? He said, laughing.
with both.
We need to be so...
Men are going...
No, they didn’t see it.
VI
During the children's tea, the big people sat on the balcony and spoke as if nothing happened, although everyone, especially Sergey Ivanovich and Varenka, knew very well what happened, though a negative, but very important circumstance.
They both experienced the same feeling, similar to what a student experienced after a failed exam, staying in the same class or forever excluded from the institution.
All the present, also feeling that something happened, spoke lively about foreign objects.
Levin and Kitty felt happy and loving tonight.
And that they were happy with their love, it was an unpleasant clue to those who wanted and could not, and they were aware.
“Remember my word, Alexandre will not come,” said the old princess.
The night was waiting from the train of Stepan Arkadić, and the old prince wrote that maybe he would come.
“And I know why,” continued the princess, “he says that young people should be left alone for the first time.
Dad has left us so.
“We didn’t see him,” Kitty said. Who are we young?
We are so old.
“Only if he doesn’t come, and I’m going to say goodbye to you, children,” the princess said with a sad breath.
My mother attacked her two daughters.
Do you think what he is?
And now...
And suddenly, the voice of the old princess suddenly drowned.
The girls silenced and looked.
“Mother will always find something sad,” they said with that view.
They didn’t know that, no matter how good the princess was with her daughter, no matter how she felt needed here, she was sadly sad for herself and for her husband since they married her last beloved daughter and the family’s nest was empty.
What do you think, Agatha Mikhailovna? She suddenly asked Kitty to stop with the mysterious appearance and significant face of Agatha Mikhailovna.
for the dinner.
“Well, it’s great,” Dolly said, “you’ll be ready, and I’ll go with Grisha and repeat his lesson.
Now he did nothing.
This is my lesson!
No, Dolly, I’m going to go, — jumping up, Levin spoke.
Grisha, who had already entered high school, had to repeat the lessons in the summer.
Darya Alexandrovna, who was still in Moscow studying Latin with her son, when she came to Levin, usually put herself to repeat with him, at least once a day, the hardest lessons of arithmetics and Latin.
Levin called to replace her; but the mother, once hearing the lesson of Levin and noticing that this is doing not the way a teacher tried in Moscow, confused and trying not to offend Levin, strongly told him that it should go through the book as a teacher, and that it would be better for her to do it again.
Levin was bored with Stepan Arkadić because of his insecurity not he, but his mother was monitoring the teaching in which she had nothing to understand, and the teachers because they were so badly teaching the children; but he promised to conduct the teaching as she wanted.
And he continued to engage with Grisha no longer in his own way, but in the book, and therefore unwanted and often forgotten the time of the lesson.
So was it today.
“No, I’m going to go, Dolly, you’re sitting,” he said. We will do everything in order, according to the book.
Just as Steve comes, we go on hunting, then I will miss it.
Levin went to Greece.
The same was said by Warren Kitty.
The kitchen and in the participating well-established house of the Levins managed to be useful. “I’ll order dinner, and you’re sitting,” she said and stood up to Agaphie Mikhailovna.
Yes, yes, the chicken has not been found. Then their... — said Kitty.
We will discuss with Agatha Mikhailovna. And Varenka escaped with her.
What a cute girl! The princess said.
Not cute, mom, but beauty is such as it is not.
Are you waiting for Stepan Arkadić? - Sergey Ivanovich said, obviously not wanting to continue the conversation about Varenka. “It’s hard to find two characters that are less like each other than your husband,” he said with a thin smile. One is moving, living only in society, like a fish in the water; the other is our bone, alive, fast, sensitive to everything, but as soon as it is in society, it is either murdered, or striking as a fish on earth.
“Yes, he’s very easy to think,” said the princess, addressing Sergei Ivanovich. I just wanted to ask you to tell him that she (she pointed out on Kitty) cannot stay here, but must necessarily come to Moscow.
He says to write out the doctor.
“Mama, he’ll do everything, he’ll agree with everything, with annoyance to the mother for what she calls for the judge Sergey Ivanovich in this case,” Kitty said.
In the middle of their conversation in the hall heard the screaming of horses and the sound of wheels on the shell.
Not yet Dolly was able to get up to meet her husband, as down, from the window of the room where Grisha was studying, Levin jumped out and planted Grisha.
– It’s Steve! – from the balcony, Levin screamed. We’ve finished, Dolly, don’t be afraid! - he added and, as a boy, allowed him to flee to the crew.
“Is, ea, id, ejus, ejus, ejus,” Grisha cried, jumping on the alley.
And someone else.
It is true Dad! Levin screamed and stopped at the entrance to the alley. “Kitty, don’t walk a rough staircase, but a circle.
But Levin mistaken, accepting the one who was sitting in the wheel, the old prince.
When he approached the wheelchair, he saw next to Stephan Arcadeic not a prince, but a beautiful full young man in a Scottish coat with long ends of the tape behind.
This was Vasenka Veslovsky, the three-year-old brother of Scherbatsky, a brilliant young man from St. Petersburg and Moscow, the “excellent little and passionate hunter,” as Stepan Arkadić presented him.
Not as disturbed by the disappointment he made, replacing himself with the old prince, Veslovsky joyfully greeted Levin, reminding of his previous acquaintance, and, capturing Grisha in the wheel, carried him through the pointer, which Stepan Arkadić carried with him.
Levin didn’t sit in the wheel, but went back.
He was a little bored about the fact that the old prince, whom he knew more, the more he loved, did not come, and that this Vasenka Veslovsky appeared, a man completely stranger and overwhelming.
He seemed even more strange and overwhelming to him that when Levin approached the wing, where the whole animated crowd of adults and children gathered, he saw that Vasenka Veslovsky kissed Kitty's hand with a gentle and galant look.
- And we cousins with your wife, and the old acquaintances, - said Vasenka Veslovsky, again strongly pressing the hand of Levin.
Is there a wild? He addressed Levin Stefan Arkadić, who was hardly able to say greetings to everyone. We have the most cruel intentions with him.
They have not been in Moscow since then.
Oh Tanja, this is you!
Please get in the wheel behind, he spoke on all sides. “How did you sweat, Dolly,” he said to his wife, kissing her hand again, holding her in her own, and swallowing from above to another.
Levin, a minute ago, who was in the most joyful position of spirit, was now blindly looking at everyone, and he didn’t like it all.
“Who did he kiss with those lips?” He thought, looking at the delicacy of Stepan Arkadić with his wife.
He looked at Dolly, and she didn’t like him either.
She does not believe in her love.
So why is she so happy?
It is disgusting!” He thought Levin.
He looked at the princess, which was so cute to him a minute ago, and he didn’t like the manner with which she, as to herself in the house, welcomed this Vasenko with his stripes.
Even Sergey Ivanovich, who also went out on the wing, seemed unpleasant to him with the obsessive friendship he met with Stephan Arkadić, while Levin knew that his brother did not love him and did not respect Oblonsky.
And Varenka, and that, were disgusted by how she with her sort sainte nitouche met this gentleman, as soon as she thought about how she would get married.
And on the contrary, Kitty was in the way she admitted to the tone of fun with which this gentleman, as a celebration for himself and for all, looked at his arrival in the village, and was unpleasant with that special smile she responded to his smile.
He spoke loudly and all went to the house; but as soon as all were sitting, Levin turned and went out.
Kitty saw something happened to her husband.
She wanted to take a minute to talk to him alone, but he rushed away from her, saying he needed to go to the office.
For a long time, economic affairs did not seem as important as today.
“There are all the holidays,” he thought, “and here things are not holidays that don’t wait and without which you can’t live.”
VII
Levin returned home only when he was called for dinner.
On the staircase Kiti and Agatha Mikhailovna stood, advising about the wines for dinner.
What do you do like this fuss?
Give it as usual.
Steve doesn’t drink.
The bones, wait, what about you? Kitty spoke, singing for him, but he unhappyly, not waiting for her, went big steps to the dining room and immediately entered the common vibrant conversation, which was supported there by Vasenka Veslovsky and Stephan Arkadić.
Do we go on hunting tomorrow? - said Stephan Arkadić.
“Please, let’s go,” said Veslovsky, sitting on the side to the other chair and pressing a fat foot.
I am very happy to go.
Have you been hunting this year? - said Levin to Veslovsky, carefully looking at his foot, but with the pleasant pleasure that Kitty knew so much in him and that didn't go so much to him. I don't know if I'm going to find but there's a lot of backs.
You just have to go early.
Are you not tired?
Are you tired, Steve?
I am tired?
I was never tired yet.
Do not sleep all night.
Let us walk.
In fact, let’s not sleep! Greatly! confirmed by Veslovsky.
“Oh, we’re sure that you can’t sleep and don’t give to others,” Dolly told her husband with the slightly noticeable irony she now almost always treated her husband. And I think it’s now time...
I’m going to go, I don’t eat.
“No, you’re sitting, Dolenka,” said Stephan Arkadić, moving to her side behind the big table they had dinner on. I will tell you how much more!
It is true, nothing.
And you know, Veslovsky was with Anna.
And he goes to them again.
They are only seventy verses from you.
I will definitely come too.
Welsh, take it here!
Vasenka passed to the ladies and sat next to Kitty.
Please tell me, have you been with her?
How is she? Daria Alexandrovna came to him.
Levin stayed at the other end of the table and, without ceasing to talk to the princess and Varenka, saw that between Stephan Arkadić, Dolly, Kitty and Veslovsky was a vibrant and mysterious conversation.
Less than a mysterious conversation, he saw in his wife’s face an expression of a serious feeling, when she, without leaving her eyes, looked at the beautiful face of Vasenka, something vividly told.
“They are very good,” Wasenko talked about Vronsky and Anna. I, of course, don’t get to judge myself, but in their house you feel in a family.
What do they intend to do?
They want to go to Moscow in the winter.
How good it is for us to go with them!
When will you go? Asked by Stepan Arkadic.
I will spend July with them.
Are you going to eat? Stephan Arkadic addressed his wife.
“I’ve long wanted and I’ll definitely go,” Dolly said. I am sorry for her and I know her.
She is a beautiful woman.
I will go alone when you go, and I will not regret anyone.
Even better without you.
“And it’s great,” said Stepan Arkadić. And you, Kitty?
I am?
Why will I go? “Everything exploded,” Kitty said. I looked at my husband.
Do you know Anna Arcadievna? He asked her Veslovsky. She is a very attractive woman.
- Yes, - even more red, she answered to Veslovsky, stood up and approached her husband.
Are you going to hunt tomorrow? She said.
His jealousy in these minutes, especially on the Romanian who covered her clothes when she spoke with Veslovsky, has already gone far away.
Now hearing her words, he understood them in his own way.
No matter how strange it was for him to remember that, now it seemed clear to him that if she asks him if he is going to hunt, then it interests her only to know if he will deliver this pleasure to Vasenka Veslovsky, in which she, according to his concepts, has already been in love.
“Yes, I’m going to go,” he answered her with an unnatural, opposite voice.
“No, it’s better to forget tomorrow, or Dolly hasn’t seen her husband at all, and you’ll go tomorrow,” Kitty said.
The meaning of Kitty’s words has already been translated by Levin as: “Don’t separate me from him.
What you’re going to go, I don’t care, but let me enjoy the society of this beautiful young man.”
“Oh, if you want, we’ll wake up tomorrow,” Levin answered with a special pleasure.
Meanwhile, without any suspicion of the suffering that was caused by his presence, after Kitty stood up from the table and, following her with a smile, loving look, followed her.
Levin saw that look.
He swallowed and for a minute he could not breathe.
“How can I let myself look at my wife like this?” Cooked in it.
So tomorrow?
Let’s go, please,” said Vasenko, sitting on the chair and again turning his leg according to his habit.
Levin’s jealousy went further.
He has already seen himself as a deceived husband, who needs a wife and a lover only to provide them with the comfort and pleasure of life.
But, despite that, he gently and welcomingly asked Vasenko about his hunting, weapons, shoes and agreed to go tomorrow.
Fortunately, Levine, the old princess stopped his suffering by getting up and advising Kitty to go to bed.
But it did not pass without a new suffering for Levin.
Saying goodbye to her sister, Vasenka once again wanted to kiss her hand, but Kitty, reddened, with the naive grace for which her mother later spoke, said, removing her hand:
This is not accepted by us.
In the eyes of Levin, she was guilty that she allowed such a relationship, and even more guilty that she showed so uncomfortable that they didn’t like her.
What a hunt to sleep! - said Stepan Arkadić, after drinking a few glasses of wine after dinner, he came to his most sweet and poetic mood. “Look, see, Kitty,” he said, indicating the moon rising because of the lip, “what beautiful!
This is the time of the serenade.
You know, he has a glorious voice, we sang with him on the way.
He brought with him beautiful romance, new two.
And I would sing with Barbara Andreevna.
When all split, Stepan Arkadić walked with Veslovsky for a long time, and they heard their singing on the new novel of the voice.
Hearing these voices, Levin sat down on a chair in his wife's bedroom and kept silent on her questions about what to do with him; but when, finally, she herself, smiling, asked, "Is there anything you didn't like with Veslovsky?" He broke him, and he spoke everything; what he spoke offended him, and therefore even more irritated him.
He stood in front of her with terribly glowing eyes from the underlying bridges, and pressed strong hands to his chest, as if he was stretching all his forces to hold himself.
The expression of his face would be cruel and even cruel if it had not expressed the suffering that touched him.
His rocks trembled, and his voice broke.
You understand that I’m not jealous: it’s a crazy word.
I can’t be jealous and believe that...
I can’t say what I feel, but it’s terrible.
I’m not jealous, but I’m insulted, humiliated by the fact that someone laughs to think, laughs to look at you with such eyes...
Which eyes? Kitty spoke, trying to remember as good as possible all the speeches and gestures of this evening and all their shades.
In the depths of her soul she found that there was something just at the moment he passed behind her to the other end of the table, but she didn’t dare to admit it even to herself, so much more she didn’t decide to tell him this and thus increase his suffering.
What can be attractive in me, what am I?
He screamed, holding his head. You’t say!
If you were attractive...
– No, Kosti, stand up and listen! She spoke, with a painful expression looking at him. What can you think?
When I don’t have people, I don’t have people.
Do you want me to see no one?
In the first minute, her jealousy was insulting; she was annoying that the smallest entertainment, and the most innocent, was forbidden to her; but now she would be willing to sacrifice not with such emptiness, but all for his tranquillity, in order to save him from the suffering he experienced.
“You understand the horrors and the comicism of my situation,” he continued with a desperate scream, “that he has me in the house, that he has done nothing uncomfortable, in fact, for he has done nothing but this discontinuity and pressure of his feet.
He considers it as the best tone, and that’s why I have to be kind to him.
“But, Kosta, you exaggerate,” Kitty said, rejoicing in the depth of her heart with the strength of love for her, which was now expressed in her jealousy.
“The worst thing is that you are as you are always, and now, when you are such a saint for me, we are so happy, so happy, and suddenly so dirty.
I don’t say, why am I defending him?
I have nothing to do with him.
What is your happiness, your happiness?
“You know, I understand why it was done, the beginning of Kitty.
Why to? Why from?
I saw how you looked when we spoke at dinner.
— Yes, yes! — said Levin scaredly.
She told him what they were talking about. And when she told it, she breathed out of anxiety.
Levin silenced, then looked at her bright, scared face and suddenly caught his head.
Katya, I have tortured you!
Butterfly, forgive me!
This is madness!
Katya, I am guilty.
Could we have suffered from this stupidity?
No, I regret you.
and me?
and me?
What am I? Crazy...
And you for what?
It’s terrible to think that any stranger can disturb our happiness.
Of course, this is offensive...
“No, so I, on the contrary, will deliberately leave him with us all the summer and I will sleep with him in kindness,” said Levin, kissing her hands. Here you will see.
Tomorrow...
Yes, we’re going tomorrow.
VIII
On the other day, the ladies did not stand up, as the hunting crews, the roofs and the roofs stood at the entrance, and Laska, even in the morning realizing that they were on hunting, swallowing and stretching the roofs, sat on the roofs under the cushion, excited and unacceptable for the delay looking at the door from which the hunting were not yet out.
The first came out by Vasenka Veslovsky in big new shoes that reached half the thick beds, in a green bluze attached with a new, smelling skin patrontache, and in her coat with stripes, and with an English new gun without antapocks and bonds.
Grace jumped to him, greeted him, jumped, asked him in his own way if they would come out soon, but, without receiving an answer from him, returned to his waiting post and again drowned, turning his head to the side and warning one ear.
Finally the door opened, flown out, rotating and turning in the air, Krak, the pointer of Stephan Arkadić, and Stephan Arkadić himself came out with a gun in his hand and a cigarette in his mouth.
“Tubo, Tubo, Krok!” He covered the dog gently, which threw his legs on the stomach and the chest, clinging with them for the jacket.
Stephan Arkadić was dressed in brushes and clothes, in broken pants and a short jacket.
A type of hat was broken on the head, but the weapon of the new system was a toy, and the jachtash and patrontaš, though highlighted, were the best kindness.
Vasenka Veslovsky did not understand before this true hunting charity - to be in the reefs, but to have the hunting power of the best quality.
He understood this now, looking at Stepan Arkadić, in these scratches whispered with his elegant, feeding and joyful bar figure, and decided that he would definitely fit the next hunt.
What is our master? He asked him.
“Young wife,” she smiled, said Stepan Arkadić.
Yes, and so beautiful.
He was already dressed.
He fled to her again.
Stephan Arkadic guessed.
Levin ran again to his wife to ask her again if she forgived him for yesterday’s foolishness, and then to ask her to be more careful for the sake of Christ. The main thing, from the children would be further, they can always push.
Then it was again to get her confirmation that she would not be angry on him because he was leaving for two days, and still to ask her to necessarily send him a note tomorrow morning with the top, to write at least two words, only so that he could know that she was well.
Kitty, as always, was painful to break with her husband for two days, but when she saw his vibrant figure, appearing big and strong in the hunting socks and white blues, and some uncomprehensible glow of the hunting excitement, she forgot her anger and weight because of his joy.
You are guilty, gentlemen! He said, escaping on the wing. Have you made breakfast?
Why red right?
Well anyway.
Go, go and go to sit.
“Let it go into the cold sheep,” he turned to the livestock waiting for him at the wing with a question about the valves. Here are still the wicked.
Levin jumped from the roofs on which he was already sitting, to the plate, with a seed to the wing.
“You didn’t come to the office yesterday, now you’re arresting me.
Well what?
Order another turn.
Add three steps. We will fit the same time.
It will be much more quiet.
- If you were to listen to me, Levin answered boredly. - I said, set the tets and then step-by-step.
You will not repair now.
Do as I said, a new ruby.
The thing was that in the staying flighle the grid broke the staircase, throwing it separately and not disappointing the rise, so the stairs all came out angry when it was placed in place.
Now the reader wanted, leaving the same staircase, to add three steps.
It will be much better.
Where do you go with the three stages?
— Sorry, — said the gentleman with a negligent smile. It will come out in the tail.
How, then, he will take down, — with a convincing gesture he said, — go, go and come.
Three steps and the length will be added...Where will it come?
- So she, therefore, from the bottom both to go and to come, - said the reader firmly and convincingly.
It will come under the roof and into the wall.
and forgiveness.
to go down. Go, go and come.
Levin got the shampoo and began to draw him a staircase by dust.
Well you see?
- As you order, - said the gentleman, suddenly illuminated with his eyes and obviously realized, finally, the matter. I need a new rubber.
“Well, it’s what you’re doing! — screamed Levin, sitting on the roofs. He went!
Keep the dog, Philip!
Levin was now experiencing, leaving behind all family and economic concerns, such a strong sense of joy of life and expectation that he didn’t want to speak.
In addition, he experienced the sense of concentrated anxiety that every hunter experiences when he approaches the place of action.
If he was doing what he was doing now, then only the questions about whether they will find what in the Colpen Bay, what will be the Grace compared to Krak and somehow he will be able to shoot today.
How can he not be ashamed in front of a new man?
How would Oblonsky not shoot him? He was also in his head.
Oblonsky experienced the same feeling and was also discouraging.
One Vasenyka Veslovsky continued to talk fun.
Now, hearing him, Levin was conscious to remember how he was wrong with him yesterday.
Vasenka was really glorious little, simple, kind and very fun.
If Levin had been alive with him, he would get closer to him.
It was a little unpleasant to Levin his holiday attitude to life and some distinction of elegance.
As if he acknowledged his high undoubted importance for having long nails, and a hat and the rest of that; but that could be forgiven for his kindness and decency. He liked Levin with his good education, his excellent pronunciation in French and English, and the fact that he was a man of his world.
You really liked the steep don's horse on the left stretch. He all admired her. How good it is to jump on a steep horse.
He imagined a wild, poetic thing on a steep horse, from which nothing came out; but his naivity, especially in combination with his beauty, the sweet smile and the grace of movements, was very attractive. Whether it was because his nature was sympathetic to Levin, or because Levin sought to find everything good in him for the redemption of yesterday’s sin, Levin was pleased with him.
After leaving three bricks, Veslovsky suddenly got a cigar and a paper and didn’t know if he lost them or left them on the table.
There were three hundred and seventy rubles in the paper and therefore it was not possible to leave it.
“You know, Levin, I’m going to go home on this Don’s strange jump.
It will be great. and? He said he was ready to enter.
No, why not? Levin answered, calculating that there should be at least six pounds of weight in Vasenk. I will send the dog.
The coach went on the stretch, and Levin began to rule the pair himself.
IX
What is our route?
Tell me what’s good,” said Stepan Arkadić.
The next plan: now we’re going to Gvedev.
In Gvedev the bull is dupe on this side, and after Gvedev the strange bacasine bull goes, and the bull is there.
Now it’s hot, and we’ll come to the evening and take the evening field; we’ll spend the night, and tomorrow we’ll go to the big boats.
Is there nothing expensive?
Yes, but let’s stop, and it’s hot.
There are two famous places, and there is hardly anything.
Levin himself wanted to go into these locations, but the locations were close to the house, he could always take them, and the locations were small—three were no place to shoot.
And that's why he blamed his soul, saying that there's hardly anything.
Compared to a small bull, Levin wanted to go beyond, but the experienced hunting eye of Stepan Arkadić immediately looked at the visible urine from the road.
Will we go? He said, indicating the bullet.
Lewin please. How great! He began to ask Vasenka Veslovsky, and Levin could not disagree.
They were unable to stop, as dogs, pursuing each other, were already flying to the boat.
The step!
The grace!
The dogs came back.
Three will be close. “I’m going to wake up here,” said Levin, hoping that they’ll find nothing but the chips, who got up from the dogs and, going on the summer, complaintly crying over the bowl.
No is.
Let’s go, Levin, let’s go together! He called Veslovsky.
Right and close.
Goodbye back!
The grace!
Do you need another dog?
Levin stayed at the line and watched the hunters with jealousy.
The hunters passed through the whole boat. Apart from the chicken and chips, one of which killed Vasenka, there was nothing in the bowl.
“Well, you see that I didn’t regret the bull,” said Levin, “just time to lose.
No, it’s fun yet.
Have you seen? - said Vasenka Veslovsky, unpleasantly entering the cabin with a gun and a chip in his hands. How glorious I killed this!
isn’t it true?
Will we soon come to the present?
Suddenly the horses rushed, Levin hit his head on the stool of someone's weapon, and a shot was spread.
The shot, in fact, was distributed before, but this seemed to Levine.
The fact was that Vasenka Veslovsky, leaving the chicken, regretted one bag, and held another chicken.
Zariad went into the earth, not hurting anyone.
Stephan Arkadić climbed his head and laughed corrosively to Veslovsky.
But Levin had no spirit to speak to him. First, any blasphemy would appear to be caused by the past danger and the blasphemy that jumped on the forehead of Levin; and secondly, Veslovsky was so naively angry first and then so gently and excitingly laughed to their general overwhelming that it was impossible for himself to not laugh.
When they came to the second boat, which was quite large and had to take a lot of time, Levin agreed not to go out.
But Veslovsky asked him again. Again, as the ballot was narrow, Levin, as a guest host, remained with the crew.
Directly from the arrival, Crack pulled to the cats.
Vasenka Veslovsky first fled for a dog.
And Stephan Arkadić failed to approach, as he had flown out the hole.
Veslovsky made a failure, and the dupe moved into a somewhat shore.
This hole was given to Veslovsky.
Step again found him, stood, and Veslovsky killed him and returned to the crew.
“Now you go, and I’ll go with the horses,” he said.
Levina began to understand the hunter's jealousy.
He gave the fire to Veslovsky and went to the ballot.
The grace, which has long been complaining and complaining about injustice, has been brought forward directly to the reliable, familiar Levin cottage, to which Crack has not entered.
Why will you not stop her? Stephan Arkadic was screaming.
“She will not be frightened,” Levin replied, rejoicing the dog and rushing for her.
In search of Laski, the closer and closer she approached familiar cats, it became more and more serious.
The little bull bird just instantly wiped it out.
She made one circle in front of the cats, started another and suddenly swallowed and drowned.
Go, go and go, Steve! Levin cried, feeling his heart begins to beat stronger, and as suddenly, as if some engine had moved out in his tensioned hearing, all the sounds, losing the measure of distance, unregularly, but brightly began to hit him.
He heard the steps of Stephan Arkadić, taking them for the remote pot of horses, he heard the fragile sound of the rooted with the roots of the corner on which he approached, receiving that sound for the flight of the dupe. He also heard some slope on the water nearby, in which he could not report himself.
Choosing a place for his feet, he moved to the dog.
The pill!
Not a hole, but the bacas broke out of the dog.
Levin led with a gun, but at the same time he targeted, that same sound of climbing on the water increased, approached, and the voice of Veslovsky joined him, something strangely loudly crying.
Levin saw that he took a gun behind the backs, but still shot.
Assured that a failure was made, Levin looked around and saw that horses with slopes were no longer on the road, but in the boat.
Veslovsky, wanting to see the shooting, went into the ballot and bound the horses.
And the trait wears it! Levin spoke about himself, returning to the occupied crew. Why did you go? - He said to him dryly and, clicking the dog, began to throw out the horses.
Levin was bored by the fact that he was prevented from shooting, and the fact that his horses were bound, and the most important thing was that, in order to dissolve the horses, to dissolve them, neither Stepan Arkadić nor Veslovsky helped him nor the dog, because they had neither the one, nor the smallest idea of what the strip is.
Without a word to answer Vasenke to his assurance that it was very dry here, Levin silently worked with the dog to get rid of the horses.
But then, burning up with the work and seeing how vigorously Veslovsky stumbled the cats for the wing, so that he even broke it, Levin accused himself that under the influence of yesterday's feeling he was too cold to Veslovsky, and tried with a special kindness to smooth his dryness.
When everything was ordered and the crew was brought to the road, Levin ordered breakfast.
Good appetite – good consciousness.
Ce poulet va tomber jusqu'au fond de mes bottes, — said the French add-on once again whispered Vasenka, eating the second chicken. Now our disasters have ended; now everything will go well.
Only for my fault I have to sit on the cows.
isn’t it true?
and? No, I am an automotive.
Look how I will bring you! — he replied, not let the driver burn, when Levin asked him to let the cushion. “No, I have to repel my fault, and I’m good at the cows. And he went.
Levin was a little afraid that he tortured the horses, especially the left, the red, which he did not know how to hold; but unintentionally he obeyed his joy, he listened to the romance that Veslovsky, sitting on the cows, sang all the way, or stories and representations in the faces, how to govern in English four in hand; and they all after breakfast in the most joyful location of spirit arrived to the Gvedevsky Bolt.
X
Vasenka throwed the horses so sharply that they came to the boat too early, so it was still hot.
Arriving to the serious bull, the main goal of the trip, Levin accidentally thought about how to get rid of Vasenka and walk without interference.
Stephan Arkadić obviously desired the same thing, and on his face Levin saw an expression of concern, which always occurs in the true hunter before the beginning of the hunt, and some kind of kindness that was his own.
How will we go?
The ballot is great, I see, and the yastrobe," said Stephan Arkadić, pointing to two big birds that were hanging over the shell. Where it is, there is probably a wild.
“That’s what you see, gentlemen,” said Levin, with a slightly dark expression pulling the shoes and examining the pistons on the gun. Do you see this insect? He pointed to the darked black-green islands in the huge, scattered on the right side of the river, up to half a wet lake. The ballot begins here, right in front of us, you see where it is greener.
From here it goes to the right, where the horses walk; there the cats and the dwarfs are there; and the circle of this shell is out to that shell and to the shell itself.
Out there, you see where the Gulf is.
This is the best place.
There I killed 17 backs.
We’re going to go with two dogs in different directions and there we’re going to get together.
Who is right, who is left? Asked by Stepan Arkadić. “To the right wider, go you both, and I to the left,” he said.
– It is beautiful! We shoot him!
Let’s go, let’s go, let’s go, let’s go, let’s go!
Lewin could not disagree, and they split up.
As soon as they entered the bowl, the two dogs gathered together and pulled to the rubber.
Levin knew this search for Laski, cautious and uncertain; he knew the place and waited for the taboo of the backs.
– Veslovsky, next to you, next to you! He spoke with a murdering voice to a fellow whose gun direction after an unexpected shooting on the Colpen Bay involuntly interested Levin.
No, I won’t shame you, you don’t think about me.
But Levin thought unintentionally and remembered the words of Kitty when she released him: "Look, don't shoot each other."
The dogs approached closer and closer, passing one by another, each carrying their thread; the expectation of the backs was so strong that the choking of his cable, pulled out of the rubber, appeared to Levin as the cry of the backs, and he captured and compressed the example of a gun.
The Bats!
The Bats! It was divided over his ear.
This Vasenka shot into the sheep of flows, which wandered over the boat and far from the measure flown at that time on the hunters.
Levin was unable to look at the one backs, the other, the third, and another eight stood up one after another.
Stephan Arkadić cut one at the same time he was planning to start his zigzag, and the backs fell into the trembling.
The Oblonsky steadily followed another, who was still flying down to the shell, and with the sound of the shot, and the shell fell down; and it was seen as he jumped out of the shell, striking the surviving white down by the wing.
Levin was not so happy: he hit the first backs too closely and disappeared; he followed him when he had already begun to rise, but at that time another came out of the legs and disappeared, and he made another disappearance.
Where the weapons were charged, another betas was raised, and Veslovsky, who managed to charge another time, left another two charges of a small piece on the water.
Stephan Arkadić picked up his backs and looked at Levin with bright eyes.
“Well, now let’s go away,” said Stepan Arkadić and, wrapping on his left foot and holding the gun ready and swinging the dog, went to one side.
Levin and Veslovsky went to another.
With Levin, it always happened that when the first shots were unsuccessful, he was hot, annoying and shooting the whole day badly.
So was it today.
Backstage was a lot.
From under the dog, from under the feet of the hunters, the backs were constantly flying out, and Levin could recover; but the more he shot, the more he was shameful before the Veslovsky, joyfully burning in measure and not in measure, not killing anything and not disturbing anything.
Levin rushed, did not end up, heated more and more and came to the point that, shooting, he almost did not hope that he would kill.
It seemed, and Lassa understood it.
She became more lazy to look for and looked at the hunters with confusion or confusion.
The shootings followed the shootings.
Dust smoke stood around the hunters, and there were only three light, small backs in the large, spacious jar. And then one of them was killed by Veslovsky and one common.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the bull were heard not frequently, but, as Levin seemed, significant shootings of Stepan Arkadić, with almost every one heard: "Krak, Krak, aport!"
This was even more concerned by Levin.
The backs continuously wandered in the air over the shell.
The crushes on the ground and the crushes in the height were not silent were heard from all sides; the beacons lifted before and wearing in the air sat in front of the hunters.
Instead of two yastrows, now dozens of them flushed over the bowl.
After passing the long half of the bull, Levin and Veslovsky arrived at the place where the long stripes that stumbled into the isch were divided by the man's pot, marked where by the flooded stripes, where the stretched strip.
Half of these lines have already been shrinked.
Although there was little hope to find as much as it was, Levin promised to Stephan Arkadić to meet him and went with his satellite further on the scattered and scattered tracks.
Oh my hunters! And one of the men who were sitting at the roof, cried to them: Go with us to be crazy!
Drink the wine!
Levin looked.
Go and go, nothing! He screamed with a red face a joyful brown man, shrinking the white teeth and lifting a green, glowing on the sun.
What’s what they disent? He asked Veslovsky.
They call vodka to drink.
They have divided the lust.
“I would drink,” said Levin, hoping that Veslovsky would be tempted with vodka and go to them.
Why do they eat?
Yes, it is fun.
Right, go to them.
You are interested.
Allons, it’s curious.
Go, go, you’ll find the way to the melt! Levin screamed and, looking at it, with pleasure saw that Veslovsky, swallowing and stumbling with the tired legs and holding the gun in the stretched hand, was choosing from the bull to the men.
- Go and you! - the man cried to Levine. The God!
Eat a cake!
and in!
Lewin wanted to drink vodka and eat a piece of bread.
He was weakened and felt that the folded legs were pulled out of the trembling, and he was in doubt for a minute.
The dog became.
And immediately all the tiredness disappeared, and he easily went to the dog.
From his feet came a beacon; he hit and killed, and the dog continued to stand.
“The Pill!”
Another dog came up.
Levi was shot.
But the day was unhappy, and he went away, and when he went to search for the killed, he did not find him either.
He went out of the whole ass, but Lasa didn’t believe that he was killed, and when he sent her to look for, she pretended she was looking for, but she didn’t look for.
Bacas was a lot here, but Levin failed. The hair rays of the sun were still hot; the clothes, which flushed from sweat, flushed to the body; the left shoe, full of water, was heavy and swallowed; the face was swallowed by drops; the mouth was hot; the nose was smell of dust and rubber; the ears were uninterrupted swallowed; the stools could not be touched, so they burned; the heart was swallowed quickly and short; the hands were swallowed by anger, and the tired legs were swallowed and swallowed by the knives and swallowed; but he was all walking and shooting.
Finally, having made a shameful failure, he threw a gun and a hat on the ground.
“No, we need to remember!” He said to himself. He lifted the weapon and the hat, suspected Lask to his feet and went out of the bowl.
When he went out to the dry, he sat on a cottage, broke down, pulled out the water from the shoe, then approached the boat, drunk with the rice taste of the water, moisturized the burned stools, and washed his face and hands.
Refrigerated, he moved back to the place where the bacas moved, with a firm intention not to get hot.
He wanted to be calm, but it was the same.
His finger pressed the bag before he took the bird to the target.
It went worse and worse.
He had only five pieces in the jacket when he went out of the boat to the olshanic, where he had to meet with Stephan Arkadić.
Before he saw Stepan Arkadić, he saw his dog.
From the outsourced root of the oils, Krak jumped out, the whole black from the smellful bulltyne, and with the sight of the winner, he swallowed with Laska.
Behind Krak appeared in the shadow of the oils and the statue figure of Stepan Arkadić.
He walked to the face of a red, roasted, with a stretched door, all the same tempting.
Well what?
You burned a lot! He said, gladly smiling.
And you? He asked Levin.
But it wasn’t necessary to ask, because he’s already seen a full yacht.
Yes nothing.
He had 14 pieces.
The glorious ballot.
You, of course, have been disturbed by Veslovsky.
“Two with one dog is uncomfortable,” said Stepan Arkadić, softening his celebration.
XI
When Levin and Stephan Arkadić came to the outbreak of the man, whom Levin always stopped, Veslovsky was already there.
He was sitting in the midst of the shelter, and, holding both hands behind the shelter with which the soldier stumbled him, the brother of the hostess, behind the tinned shoes, laughed with his infectiously funny laughter.
I just came.
They have eaten charmants.
Imagine, drink me, feed me.
What a bread is a miracle!
The Delicieux!
And vodka – I’ve never drank a better taste!
I didn’t want to take money for anything. And everyone said, “Don’t talk,” somehow.
Why take the money?
They then followed you.
Are they selling vodka? - said the soldier, finally putting the wet shoe with a black cloth.
Despite the impurity of the hunt, contaminated with the hunt of the hunters and the dirty, swallowed dogs, the bull and dirty smell it was filled with, and the absence of knives and wings, the hunted drinked tea and tasted with the taste they ate only on the hunt.
Washed and clean, they went to the undercovered seafood, where the chicken was prepared for the lords of bed.
Although it was sad, no one of the hunters wanted to sleep.
Toughened between memories and stories about shooting, dogs, past hunting, the conversation attacked the topic of interest to all.
On the occasion of several times repeated expressions of the admiration of Vasenka about the beauty of this night and the smell of the seed, the beauty of the broken telga (to him it seemed broken because it was removed from the predecessors), the kindness of the men who drunk it with vodka, the dogs who lie each at the legs of their master, Oblonsky told about the beauty of the hunt at Maltus, on which he was last summer.
Malta was a well-known railway richer.
Stephan Arkadić told this Maltus which bullets were bought in the Tver province, and how they were saved, and what crew, dogcards, brought the hunters, and what tent with breakfast was broken down at the bullet.
“I don’t understand you,” said Levin, riding up on his seed, “how you are not disgusted by these people.
I understand that breakfast with laffet is very pleasant, but do you not like that luxury?
All these people, like our first buyers, use the money in such a way that they deserve the disregard of people, ignore this disregard, and then dishonestly disregard themselves from the previous disregard.
It is perfectly fair! It was called Vasenka Veslovsky. and perfectly.
Of course, Oblonsky does it from bonhomie, and others say, "Oblonsky rides..."
Levin heard that Oblonsky smiled, saying this, I just don’t consider him more unfair than any of the rich merchants and nobles.
They and they have done the same work and intelligence.
Yes, but what difficulty?
Is it a job to obtain a concession and re-sale?
Of course, the work.
Work is in the sense that if there were no of him or others like him, there would be no way.
But work is not the work of a man or a scientist.
– Let’s put, but work in the sense that its activity gives its result – the way.
But you find that the roads are useless.
No, this is another question; I am ready to admit that they are useful.
But any acquisition that is not in accordance with the work placed is unfair.
Who will determine the conformity?
- Acquisition by an unfair way, by a trick, - said Levin, feeling that he is unable to clearly define the line between an honest and an unfair, - like the acquisition of bank accounts, - he continued. “This is evil, the acquisition of massive states without effort, as it was during the purchase, only changed the shape.
Le roi est mort, vive le roi!
Just as they managed to destroy the reimbursement, as railways appeared, the banks: they also go without trouble.
Yes, it’s all,, true and intelligent.
Go to bed, step! - Stepan Arkadić screamed on the swallowing and swallowing all the seed dog, obviously confident in the righteousness of his topic and therefore calm and untouchable. But you have not defined the line between fair and unfair work.
That I get more complaints than my chairman, although he knows me better, is it unfair?
I don’t know.
“Well, so I’ll tell you, what you get for your work in the farming of excesses, let’s put five thousand, and our master man, no matter how he worked, won’t get more than fifty rubles, just as unfair as that I get more of the chairman and that Maltus gets more of the road master.
On the contrary, I see some hostile, unfounded attitude of society towards these people, and it seems to me that there is jealousy.
“No, it’s unfair,” said Veslovsky, “there can’t be jealousy, but there’s something unclean in this matter.
“No, let me,” continued Levin. You say it is unfair that I get five thousand and a man fifty rubles: that’s true.
It’s unfair, and I feel it, but...
It is actually.
Why do we eat, drink, hunt, do nothing, but he is forever, forever in work? - said Vasenka Veslovsky, obviously for the first time in life clearly thinking about it and therefore quite honestly.
“Yes, you feel, but you don’t give him your name,” said Stephan Arkadić, as if he was deliberately stumbling Levin.
Recently, a secret hostility has been established between the two sisters: as if, since they were married to sisters, there has been a rivalry between them about who has better arranged their lives, and now this hostility has been expressed in the beginning to take the personal shade of the conversation.
“I don’t give because no one requires it from me, and if I want it, I can’t give it to someone,” Levin replied.
Give this man; he will not give up.
Yes, but how will I give him?
Will I go with him and make a shop?
I don’t know, but if you’re convinced that you don’t have the right...
I am not convinced at all.
I, on the contrary, feel that I have no right to give, that I have a duty to both the land and the family.
No, let me; but if you think this inequality is unfair, then why don’t you do so?
I act only negatively in the sense that I will not try to increase the difference that exists between me and them.
Sorry, this is a paradox.
- Yes, this is something sophistical explanation, - confirmed Veslovsky. A! “The master,” he said to the man, who, crying through the gates, was entering the saray. Are you not sleeping yet?
No, what a dream!
I thought our lords were sleeping, to hear the ghetto.
I want to take this.
Is it not bite? He added, carefully stumbling the boss's feet.
Where will you sleep?
We are in the night.
What a night! - said Veslovsky, looking at the sunshine that was seen at a weak light in the large frame of the doors now opened at the edge of the edge and the stretched roofs. - Listen, these are women's voices sing and, right, foolish.
Who is the singer?
And these are the courtyard girls, here nearby.
Let us walk!
We will not sleep.
Oblonsky, let’s go!
- Whatever it is to lie and go, - pulling up, Oblonsky replied. Sleeping is great.
“Well, I’m going to go alone, live up and shoe up,” said Veslovsky. To meet, gentlemen.
If you’re fun, I’ll call you.
You have lived me wildly, and I will not forget you.
Is it not true, the glorious little one? - said Oblonsky, when Veslovsky left and the man closed the door behind him.
“Yes, glorious,” Levin replied, continuing to think about the subject of the previous conversation.
It seemed to him that he, to the extent he was able, clearly expressed his thoughts and feelings, and in the meantime both of them, stupid and sincere people, in one voice said that he was comforted by sophisms.
This disturbed him.
So is so, my friend.
You need one of the two: either to recognize that the present system of society is fair, and then to defend your rights; or to recognize that you enjoy the unfair benefits, as I do, and to enjoy them with pleasure.
No, if it were unfair, you’t be able to enjoy these goods with pleasure, at least I’t.
I have to feel that I am not guilty.
What does it really do not go? - said Stepan Arkadić, obviously standing from the tension of thought. We will not sleep.
Right we go!
Levin did not answer.
The word they said in the conversation that he acts fairly only in a negative sense occupied him.
“Can only negative be fair?” He asked himself.
But how much the fresh seed smells! - said Stefan Arkadic, climbing up. I will not sleep for anything.
Something was stuck there.
Do you hear his voice and his voice?
Not going?
Let us go!
“No, I’m not going,” Levin replied.
Do you do that in principle too? - Smiling, said Stepan Arkadić, looking for his food in the dark.
Not from the principle, but why do I go?
“And you know, you’re going to make yourself trouble,” said Stephan Arkadić, finding the food and standing up.
Don’t I see how you’ve behaved with your wife?
I’ve heard you have the first question, whether you’re going to hunt for two days or not.
It’s all good like idyllia, but it’s not enough for a lifetime.
A man must be independent, he has his own male interests.
“The man must be courageous,” said Oblonsky, opening the door.
That is what? To take care of the courtyard virgins? He asked Levin.
Why not go if it’s fun?
Ca ne tire pas a consequence.
My wife will not be worse than that, and I will be fun.
The main thing is to eat the holy food at home.
In the house there was nothing. Do not bind your hands.
“Maybe,” said Levin dryly and turned to the side. Tomorrow I have to go early, and I will not wake anyone, but I will go in the morning.
“Messions, venez vite! I heard the voice of the returning Veslovsky. The Charmante!
I opened it.
Charmante, perfect Gretchen, and we have already met her.
Right, beautiful! — he talked with such a favourable view as if it was made for him it was good, and he was pleased with those who prepared it for him.
Levin became asleep, and Oblonsky, wearing shoes and smoking a cigarette, went out of the saray, and soon their voices were silent.
Levin could not sleep for a long time.
He heard his horses swallowing the seed, then when the master and the older little man gathered and went to the night; then he heard the soldier sleeping on the other side of the saray with the grandson, the little son of the master; he heard the boy with a tonic voice telling the uncle his impression of the dogs that seemed to the boy terrible and huge; then when the boy asked who these dogs would catch, and as the soldier with a crying and sleeping voice told him that tomorrow the hunters will go into the bowl and will burn out of the rocks, and how then, to separate from the question of the boy, he said, "Speed, and it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was,
Is it only negative? He repeated himself. Well and what?
I am not guilty.”
He began to think about tomorrow.
Tomorrow I’m going early in the morning and I’m not going to get hot.
Backstage is missing.
There is a hole.
I’m going to go home with a note from Kitty.
Yes, Steve’s probably right: I’m not brave with her, I’ve gotten...
But what to do!
Again negative!”
During his dream he heard a laughter and a joyful speech of Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadić.
He immediately opened his eyes: the moon went up, and in the open doors, brightly illuminated by the moon light, they stood and spoke.
Something Stepan Arkadić talked about the freshness of the girl, comparing her to the newly broken fresh orange, and something Veslovsky, laughing with his infectious laughter, repeated, probably, the words said to him by the man: "You yours as possible home!" Levin spoke through his dream:
God, tomorrow is the light. and slept.
XII
Wake up early, Levin tried to wake up his comrades.
Vasenka, lying on the stomach and stretching one leg in the pillow, slept so strongly that it was impossible to get a response from him.
Oblonsky passed through the dream refused to go so early.
Even Lasa, sleeping, swallowing the ring, to the edge of the seed, unwantedly stood up and lazy, one after the other, pulled out and stretched his back legs.
After waking up, taking the gun and carefully opening the scratch door, Levin went out to the street.
The dog was sleeping with the crew, and the horses were sleeping.
One only lazyly eats the oat, scattering it with a grape on the hole.
There was grey in the yard.
What did you get up so early? - Friendly, as to the old good acquaintance, the master who came out of the house came to him.
On the hunt, my grandmother.
Will I go to the bowl?
- Direct tasks; our humans, sweet man, and cannabis; the strip there.
Carefully walking with the boss's burned legs, the old man led Levina and thrown him a curtain to the rubber.
So you’ll get into the bowl.
Our boys went there in the evening.
Lasa joyfully rushed forward on the trail; Levin followed her with a fast, easy step, constantly looking at the sky.
He wanted the sun not to rise before he came to the bowl.
But the sun didn’t stumble.
The moon, which was still bright when it came out, was now just bright as a piece of mercury; the morning grain, which was not seen before, was now to be sought; the previously uncertain spots in the far field were already clearly seen.
They were rough land.
The invisible still without the sun's light rose in a bright high canyon, from which had been selected already the masks, urinated the legs and the bluz of Levin above the belt.
In the silence of the morning, the smallest sounds were heard.
A bees with a whisted bullet passed through the ear of Levin.
He looked and saw another and the third.
They all flew out because of the flock of the bees and hid over the cannabis in the direction of the bull. The strip took it straight into the bowl.
The ballot could be discovered by the pairs that climbed from it where thicker, where less, so that the ashes and rocks, like islands, swallowed on that pair.
On the edge of the bowl and the roads, the boys and the men, who strangled the night, lie and before the morning all slept under the captains.
In the vicinity there were three horses.
One of them crushed candlesticks.
Grace went next to the owner, asking forward and looking forward.
After the sleeping men passed and matched with the first urinary, Levin examined the piston and left the dog.
One of the horses, filled with a stormy triangle, saw the dog, scratched and, lifting his tail, scratched.
The rest of the horses were also scared, and with their swallowed legs swallowing on the water and producing sound-like clopps, pulled out of the thick grain, they jumped out of the bull.
Lasa stopped, laughing at the horses and questioning at Levin.
Levin squeezed the grace and swallowed in a sign of what can be started.
Lasa joyfully and cautiously flew through the trembling under her.
After escaping into the bull, Laska immediately felt the smell of the bird, the smell of the roots, the bull trees, the rubber, and the strange smell of the horse butter, spread throughout this place, the smell of the bird, the smell of the bird, which most of all the others worried her.
Somewhere on the mouth and the balls this smell was very strong, but it was impossible to decide in which direction it was strengthened and weakened.
To find the direction, we had to go further under the wind.
Without feeling the movements of her legs, Laska was an intense galop, so that at every jump she could stop, if there was a need, jumped right away from the wind that flooded from the east and turned to the wind.
Breathing the air in herself with extended nodes, she immediately felt that it was not just traces, but she was here, before her, and not one, but many.
It reduces the speed of running.
They were here, but where exactly, she could not yet determine.
In order to find that place, she started a circle, as suddenly the voice of the owner dissolved her.
The grace! Here is!” He said, indicating her to the other side.
She stood and asked him if it was better to do as she started. But he repeated the command with a angry voice, showing a water-filled cottage where nothing could be.
She listened to him, assuming that he was seeking to make him pleasant, the cottage came out and returned to the former place and immediately felt them again.
Now, when he didn’t interfere with her, she knew what to do, and, without looking under her legs and boredly stumbling over the high cats and falling into the water, but managing the flexible, strong legs, she started a circle that everything had to explain to her.
Their smell became stronger and stronger, more certain and more certain, and suddenly it became clear to her that one of them was here, behind this cat, five steps ahead of her, and she stopped and died with the whole body.
On her lower legs she could not see anything in front of herself, but she knew by smell that he was sitting not five steps further.
She stood, feeling it more and more and enjoying waiting.
The tensioned tail was pulled out and irritated only at the end.
Her mouth was slightly open, her ears were lifted up.
One ear turned on to run, and she breathed hard but carefully and looked even more carefully, with more eyes than with the head, to the owner.
He, with his usual face, but always scary eyes, walked, spotted, on the cats, and unusually quiet as she seemed.
She seemed that he was walking quietly and he was running away.
Having noticed that special search for Lassy, when she clinged all to the ground, as if she was grabbing with big steps with her back legs, and slightly opened her mouth, Levin realized that she was pulling on her ass, and, in her heart, praying to God for success, especially on the first bird, fled to her.
When he came to her, he began to look from his height and saw with his eyes what she saw with her nose.
In the trail between the cats on one was seen a hole.
He turned his head and he listened.
Then, slightly discouraged and again placed the wings, he, uncomfortable backward, escaped behind the corner.
— Pill, Pill, — cried Levin, throwing behind Lask.
“But I can’t go,” Grace thought. Where will I go?
From here I feel them, and if I move forward, I will not understand where they are and who they are.”
But he knocked her on his knees and spoke with an exciting scream, “Pill, Lassochka, Pill!”
“Well, so if he wants it, I’ll do it, but I’m not responsible for myself now,” she thought and rushed with all her legs forward between the cats.
She didn’t hear anything now and only saw and heard, without understanding anything.
In ten steps from the previous place with a fatty horcany and a special dupe-thinked sound of wings, one dupe was raised. And after the shooting he hardly swallowed his white chest on a wet treasure.
The other didn’t wait and Levin stood up behind without a dog.
When Levin turned to him, he was already far away. The shot got him.
After flying twenty steps, the second hole climbed to the top with a wheel and a cup, like a thrown ball, hardly fell to a dry place.
"That's going to be so much! - Levi's thought, hanging in a jacket of warm and fat hips. “Lasco, will it be a bit?”
When Levin, charging the gun, touched further, the sun, although not yet visible behind the bricks, has already risen.
The moon, having lost all its brightness, as a cloud, was white in the sky; there was no star to be seen.
The uricles, which were previously silver roses, are now golden.
The rainbow was whole jantary.
The blue herbs passed into yellow green.
The bull birds copped on glowing roses and placed a long shade of caves near the hole.
Yastreb woke up and sat on the ground, turning his head from the side to the side, unhappyly looking at the ballot.
The galls were flying in the field, and the boyfriend had already dragged the horses to the old man who was lifting up from the bottom of the cabinet.
The smoke of the shots, like milk, bleed on the green of the grass.
One of the boys fled to Levin.
Daddy, the puppies were there yesterday. He screamed and followed him far away.
And Levin, in the mind of this boy who expressed his approval, was twice pleasant to kill three backs once again together.
The hunter notices that if the first beast and the first bird are not abandoned, the field will be happy, it has been fair.
A tired, hungry, happy, Levin at the tenth hour of the morning, coming out at thirty, with ninety pieces of red dive and one fist, which he attached to the belt, because she hadn’t entered the jacket, returned to the apartment.
His friends have been awake for a long time and have managed to get hungry and dinner.
“Stay, stand, I know that they are ninete,” said Levin, recounting for the second time those who did not have the substantial kind they had when they were flying out, crushed and drowned, with a blurry of blood, with swallowed sides with the heads of butterflies and backs.
The account was faithful, and Stepan Arkadić's jealousy was pleasant to Levin.
It was pleasant for him that, returning to the apartment, he stood the already arriving messenger from Kitty with a note.
“I am very healthy and fun.
If you are afraid of me, you can be even more calm than before.
I have a new bodyguard, Maria Vlajevna (this was a nurse, a new, important face in the family life of Levin).
She came to take me. She found me completely healthy, and we left her before you arrived.
Everyone is happy, healthy, and you, please, don’t rush, but if the hunting is good, stay another day.”
These two joy, the happy hunt and the note from his wife, were so great that the two little trouble that happened after that passed for Levin easily.
One was that the red stretch, obviously processed yesterday, did not eat food and was bored.
She said she was overwhelmed.
“Yesterday they were killed, Konstantin Dmitrych,” he said. Thus, ten verses are unlikely to be destroyed!
Another discomfort that disturbed his good mood in the first minute, but on which he laughed after a long time, was that there was nothing left of all the provision released to Kitty in such abundance that it seemed impossible to eat it in a week.
Returning tired and hungry from hunting, Levin so surely dreamed of cakes that, coming to the apartment, he had already heard the smell and taste of them in his mouth, as Lasa heard the wild, and immediately ordered Philip to give himself.
It turned out that not only cakes but chickens were no longer there.
Well the appetite! - said Stepan Arkadić laughing, pointing to Vasenka Veslovsky. I don’t have a lack of appetite, but it’s amazing.
Well what to do! - said Levin, looking dark at Veslovsky. Philip, so give the beef.
“The sheep was swallowed, and I gave the bones to the dogs,” Philip replied.
Levin was so insulted that he said, “Even if something was left for me,” and he wanted to cry. “That’s what you’re doing,” he said to Philip with a screaming voice, trying not to look at the Vaseenka, “and put the crabs. Ask me for milk.
Even later, when he was eating milk, he became aware that he was annoying a stranger, and he began to laugh at his hungry anger.
In the evening they made a field, in which Veslovsky killed a few pieces, and in the night they returned home.
The way back was just as fun as the way back.
The Veslovsky songed, and he remembered with pleasure his walks with the men who cooked him with a vodka and said to him, "Don't talk about it," and his night walks with ornaments and the court girl and the man who asked him whether he was married, and when he learned that he was not married, he said to him, "But you don't worry about the spouses of the strangers, but let's go home as your wife."
These words especially mixed Veslovsky.
I am very pleased with our trip.
And you, Levin?
“I’m very happy,” said Levin, who was happy not only not to feel the hostility he experienced at home to Vasenko Veslovsky, but, on the contrary, to feel the most friendly position to him.
On the other day, at 10 p.m., Levin, having gone through the farm, went to the room where Vasenka was sleeping.
— Entrez, — screamed the Veslovsky to him. “You apologize to me, I’ve just finished my ablutions,” he said, smiling, standing in one clothes before him.
Don’t be ashamed please. Levin came to the window. Did you sleep well?
As a killed.
What a day for hunting!
and yes. Are you tea or coffee?
Neither one nor another.
I have breakfast.
I am right, consciously.
Do I think they’ve got up?
Going well now.
You show me the horses.
Going through the garden, going to the cabin and even doing gym together on the bars, Levin returned home with his guest and entered the living room with him.
It was beautiful and how many impressions! - said Veslovsky, I am going to Kitty, who was sitting behind the samvar. What a sadness that women are missing these pleasures!
“Well, what, he’ll have to talk somehow to the owner of the house,” Levin said to himself.
He again showed something in a smile, in the victorious expression with which the guest turned to Kitty...
The princess, sitting on the other side of the table with Mary Vlajevna and Stephan Arkadić, suspected Levin and spoke with him about moving to Moscow for Kiti's families and preparing the apartment.
For Levin, as during the wedding were unpleasant all preparations that offended the greatness of the committing, so even more offensive seemed preparations for future births, whose time was somehow counted on the fingers.
He tried all the time not to hear these talks about the way the future child was wrapped, he tried to turn and not to see any mysterious endless wrapped stripes, some wrapped triangles to which Dolly attributed special importance, etc.
The event of the birth of a son (he was sure that the son), which he was promised, but which he could not yet believe, — so it seemed unusual — seemed to him, on the one hand, such enormous and therefore impossible happiness, on the other hand, such a mysterious event that this imaginary knowledge of what will be, and as a result of that preparation as to something ordinary, humanly produced, seemed to him annoying and humiliating.
But the princess did not understand his feelings and explained his desire to think and talk about it with light thought and indifference, and therefore did not give him peace.
She ordered Stephan Arkadic to look at the apartment and now suspected Levin.
I don’t know anything, Princess.
Do what you want, he said.
You have to decide when to move.
I right, I don’t know.
I know that millions of children are born without Moscow and doctors.
Yes if so...
“Not as Kitty wants.
I can’t talk about it with Kitty.
What do you want me to scare her?
It was this spring that Natalie Golitsina died of a bad babysitter.
“As you say, I’m going to do,” he said darkly.
The princess began to speak to him, but he did not listen to her.
Although the conversation with the princess and scared him, he became obscure not by this conversation, but by what he saw from the samovard.
“No, it’s impossible,” he thought, sometimes looking at Kitty Vasenko, with his beautiful smile saying something to her, and on her, red and excited.
There was something dirty in the position of Vasenki, in his sight, in his smile.
Levin saw even something dirty both in the position and in the look of Kitty. And again the light was dark in his eyes.
Again, as yesterday, suddenly, without the smallest transition, he felt abandoned from the heights of happiness, calmness, dignity into the fool of despair, anger and humiliation.
Again, everything was against him.
“So do, princess, as you want,” he said, looking back again.
- The heavy hat of Monomach! - Stepan Arkadić told him a joke, indicating, obviously, not a single conversation with the princess, but the cause of Levin's anger that he noticed. How late you are now, Dolly!
Everyone got to meet Darya Alexandrovna.
Vasenka stood up for a minute and with a characteristic new young people, the lack of kindness to the ladies slightly worshipped and again continued the conversation, laughing at something.
I was tortured by Masha.
She slept badly and capricorned terribly today,” Dolly said.
The conversation, covered by Vasenka and Kitty, went again about yesterday, about Anna and whether love can be above the conditions of the world.
Kitty was unpleasant about this conversation, and he worried her about the content itself, and the tone he was conducted, and especially that she knew how it affected her husband.
But she was too simple and innocent to be able to stop this conversation, and even to hide the external pleasure that the obvious attention of this young man gave her.
She wanted to stop that conversation, but she didn’t know what to do with her.
Whatever she did, she knew, will be noticed by her husband, and everything will be translated to the wrong side.
And indeed, when she asked Dolly that with Masha, and Vasenka, waiting for the end of this boring conversation for him, began to look indifferently at Dolly, this question appeared to Levine an unnatural, disgusting trick.
Do we go to the fungi today? She said Dolly.
“Let’s go, please, and I’m going to go,” Kitty said and reddened.
She wanted to ask Vasenko with caution if he would go, and she didn’t ask. Where are you, Kosta? She asked her husband with a guilty sight when he made a decisive step through her.
This guilty statement confirmed all his doubts.
“Without me the machine man came, I haven’t seen him yet,” he said without looking at her.
He went down, but was not yet able to get out of the office, as he heard the familiar steps of his wife, carefully rapidly going to him.
What are you? He said it was dry. We are busy.
“Sorry me,” she addressed the German engineer, “I have a few words to say to my husband:
The German wanted to leave, but Levin said to him:
Do not worry.
The train at three? Asked the German. How not to delay.
Levin did not answer him and went out with his wife.
What do you have to say to me? He spoke French.
He didn’t look at her face and didn’t want to see that she, in her position, scratched all the face and had a sad, destroyed look.
“I... I want to say that it’s not so to live, that it’s a martyr,” she said.
“People here in the buffet,” he said angry, “Do not make scenes.
Well, let’s go here!
They were in the passing room. Kitty wanted to go to the neighborhood.
Let’s go to the garden!
In the garden they encountered a man who cleaned the road. And no longer thinking that the man sees her crying, and his exciting face, no longer thinking that they are like people escaping from some misfortune, they go forward with fast steps, feeling that they have to speak out and disguise each other, be together and thus get rid of the torture they both experienced.
You cannot live so!
This is a martyr!
I suffer, you suffer.
For what? She said when they finally reached a solitary shop at the corner of the lipo alley.
But you tell me one thing: was there in his tone unpleasant, impure, humiliating and horrible? He said, standing before her again in the same posture, with the balls in front of the chest, as he was standing before her that night.
“It was,” she said with a loud voice. But do you not see that I am not guilty?
I wanted to take this tone in the morning, but these people...
Why did he come?
How happy we were! She spoke, breathing out of the rings that lifted up all her filled body.
The gardener was surprised to see, despite the fact that nothing rushed behind them and that it was nothing to flee, and that they could not find anything joyful on the shop, the gardener saw that they returned home beside him with calm, bright faces.
Leaving his wife up, Levin went to the half of Dolly.
Darya Alexandrovna was in great anger on that day.
She walked through the room and angryly spoke to the girl standing in the corner and laughing:
“And you will stand all the day in the corner, and you will eat alone, and you will not see any doll, and I will not wear your new clothes,” she said, without knowing what to punish her.
It’s a dirty girl! She turned to Levine. Where does this crazy tendency come from?
What did she do? -- Lewin said quite indifferently, who wanted to be advised about his case, and therefore it was annoying that he got somewhat.
“They and Grisha went to the maline and there... I can’t even say what she was doing.
That’s what madness.
You will regret Miss Elliot a thousand times.
It doesn’t look at it, the car.
Figurez vous, qu'elle...
And Darya Alexandrovna told the crime of Mashi.
“It doesn’t prove anything, it’s not a foolish tendency, it’s just a foolishness,” Levin calmed her.
Are you somewhat disappointed?
Why did you come? I asked Dolly. What is done there?
And in the tone of this question, Levin heard that it would be easy for him to say what he was intended to say.
I wasn’t there, I was alone in the garden with Kitty.
We have been fighting for the second time since...
Steve has come.
Dolly looked at him with intelligent, understanding eyes.
“Well, say, the hand on the heart, was there... not in China, but in this master such a tone that may be unpleasant, not unpleasant, but terrible, offensive to his husband?
How to tell you...
Stay in the corner! She turned to Mashe, who, seeing a slightly noticeable smile on the mother’s face, turned. The world’s opinion would be that he behaves as all young people behave.
Il fait la cour a une jeune et jolie femme, and the worldly husband must only be benefited by this.
“Yes, yes,” said Levin darkly, “but did you notice?
Not just me, but Steve noticed.
He said to me right after the tea, “Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour a Kiti.”
It’s great, I’m calm now.
I’m going to throw him out,” said Levin.
What do you get crazy? Dolly screamed with horror. What you, Kosti, remember! Laughing, she said. “Well, you can go to Fanny now,” she said Mashe. If you want, I’ll say to Steve.
He will take him.
You can say you are waiting for guests.
He is not at home at all.
No, no, I am myself.
Are you going to dispute?
“I’m going to be so fun, it’s really fun to shine with my eyes,” said Levin. Sorry to her, Dolly!
She won’t be,” he said about a little criminal who didn’t go to Fanny and stood unresolvedly against her mother, deeply waiting and looking for her look.
My mother looked at her.
The girl broke out, broke her face in her mother's knees, and Dolly put her thin gentle hand on her head.
“What’s in common between us and them?” -Levin thought and went to find Veslovsky.
Going through the front, he told him to put a wheel to go to the station.
“The reservoir was broken yesterday,” Lakey replied.
That’s Tarantino, but rather.
Where is the guest?
They went to their room.
Levin stopped Vasenka while he, dissolving his stuff from the bag and dissolving new romance, measured the robbery to ride the top.
If there was something special in the face of Levin, Vasenko himself felt that the little brin de cour, which he concealed, was incompatible with this family, but he was somewhat (as a secular person may be) disturbed by the entrance of Levin.
Are you driving in the rocks?
“Yes, it’s much cleaner,” said Vasenko, putting a fat foot on the chair, stretching the lower neck and funny, kindly smiling.
He was undoubtedly a good boy, and Levin was sad for him and consciously for himself, the owner of the house, when he noticed the slavery in the sight of Vasenka. N
And on the table was a slope of the palm, which they broke this morning together on the gym, trying to raise the lost bars.
Levin took this trap into his hands and began to overwhelm the broken end, without knowing how to start.
- I wanted... - He was silent, but suddenly, remembering Kitty and everything that was, strongly looking in his eyes, he said, - I told you to put the horses.
That is how? I started with a surprise. Where to go?
- You, on the railway, - Levi's darkly said, throwing the end of the palm.
Are you leaving or something has happened?
“It happened that I was waiting for guests,” said Levin, faster and faster, overwhelming with strong fingers the ends of the broken palm. And I don’t wait for guests, and nothing happened, but I ask you to leave.
You can explain how you want my dishonesty.
Wear is standing.
– I ask you to explain to me... – he said with dignity, finally understood.
“I can’t explain to you,” said Levin, quietly and slowly, trying to hide the drainage of his rocks. It is better not to ask you.
And since the broken ends were all broken, Levin sticked with his fingers to the thick ends, scratched the palm and carefully captured the falling end.
Probably the appearance of these tensioned hands, the most muscles he felt in the gym this morning, and the bright eyes, the quiet voice and the twisting scales convinced Vasenko more words.
He, falling on his shoulders and negligently smiling, worshiped.
Can I see Oblonsky?
The shoulder and smile did not irritate Levin.
“What else has he left to do?” He thought.
I will send it to you now.
Stephan Arkadić said, when he learned from a friend that he was thrown out of the house, and found Levin in the garden where he was walking, waiting for the guest to leave. But it’s ridicule!
Which mouse bite you?
But it’s the last ridicule!
What do you think if a young man...
But the place where Levin bite the mosquito, it seems, was still sick, because he again bleed, when Stephan Arkadić wanted to explain the cause, and quickly overthrowed him:
Please don’t explain the reason!
I couldn’t otherwise!
I am very conscious before you and before him.
But he, I think, will not be a great horror to leave, and I and my wife his presence is unpleasant.
But it is offensive to him!
And then c'est ridicule.
It is offensive and painful for me!
I am not guilty of anything, and I have no reason to suffer.
This was not what I expected from you!
On can be jealous, but a point, it's the last ridicule!
Levin quickly turned and went away from him into the depths of the alley and continued one walk back and forward.
Soon he heard the throat of the tarantha and saw from the trees as Vasenka, sitting on the seed (there was no seat in the tarantha) in his Scottish hat, jumping on the slopes, walked through the alley.
“This is what else?” -Levin thought when Lakey, escaping from the house, stopped Tarantas.
It was a machine man that Levi had forgotten.
The machinery, swallowing up, said something to Veslovsky; then he entered the taranthas, and they left together.
Stephan Arkadić and the princess were angry by the act of Levin.
And he himself felt not only ridicule in the highest degree, but also guilty and neglected; but remembering that he and his wife suffered, he, asking himself how he would do another time, replied to himself that exactly the same.
Despite all this, at the end of this day all, except the princess, who did not forgive this act to Levin, became unusually lived and joyful, exactly the children after the punishment or the great after a heavy official reception, so that the evening about the expulsion of Vasenka in the absence of the princess was already spoken as a long-standing event.
And Dolly, who had a gift from her father to tell, forced Varenka to laugh, when she for the third and fourth time, all with new humor additions, told her how she, just gathered to wear new jackets for the guest and went out to the living room, suddenly heard the wrath of the cowboy.
Who is in the column? Vasenka himself, with a Scottish hat, and with romance, and with robbery, sits on the seed.
If you wanted to stop the car!
No, and then I hear, “Be!”
I think I regret.
I see, they put a thick German to him and were lucky.
My bands are missing.
Daria Alexandrovna fulfilled her intention and went to Anne.
She was very sad to anger her sister and make her husband unpleasant; she understood how fair Levina was, unwilling to have any relationships with Vronsky; but she considered it her duty to visit Anna and show her that her feelings cannot change despite her change.
In order not to depend on the Levins in this journey, Daria Alexandrovna sent to the village to hire horses; but Levin, having learned about it, came to her with an excuse.
Why do you think I’m unpleasant about your trip?
“Yes, if it was unpleasant to me, it was even more unpleasant to me that you didn’t take my horses,” he said. You’ve never told me that you’re eating.
And to hire in the village, first of all, it’s unpleasant for me, and most importantly, they’ll take, but don’t bring. I have horses.
And if you don’t want to anger me, take my ones.
Darya Alexandrovna had to agree, and on the appointed day, Levin prepared for his son a fourth horse and a substrate, gathering it from the workers and the top, very unpleasant, but which could bring Darya Alexandrovna in one day.
Now, when horses were needed both for the deceased princess and for the nurse, it was difficult for Levin, but for the duty of hospitality he could not allow Darya Alexandrovna to hire horses from his house and, in addition, he knew that the twenty rubles they asked from Darya Alexandrovna for this trip were very important for her; and the money of Darya Alexandrovna, who were in a very bad situation, felt Levin as their own.
Daria Alexandrovna, by the advice of Levin, went out to the morning.
The road was good, the wheel was quiet, the horses were running well, and on the cows, in addition to the cushion, a container was sitting instead of the lake, sent by Levin for safety.
Darya Alexandrovna was sleeping and awakened, just entering the permanent yard, where the horses had to be changed.
Drinking tea from the wealthiest man-host, with whom Levin stopped in his trip to Swiazhsky, and discussing with the grandmothers about the children and with the old man about Count Vronsky, whom he greatly praised, Darya Alexandrovna went further at ten hours.
At home, for the care of the children, there was never time to think. But now, on this four-hour journey, all the previously detained thoughts suddenly stumbled in her head, and she changed her whole life, as never before, and from the most different sides.
The most strange was her thoughts.
First she thought about the children, whom, although the princess, and most importantly, Kitty (she hoped more on her), promised to watch them, she was still worried.
"As if Masha didn't begin to bet again, Grisha would not be hit by a horse, and Lily's stomach would not be angry again."
But then the questions of the present began to change with the questions of the near future.
She began to think about how in Moscow this winter to take a new apartment, change the furniture in the living room and make a shell of the older daughter.
Then they began to ask her the questions of a distant future: how she will bring children into people.
“The girl is nothing else,” she thought, “but the boys?
Well, I’m working with Grisha now, but it’s just because I’m free now, I don’t give birth.
Of course, Steve has nothing to count on. And I will bring them out with the help of good men; but if they are born again...”
And she thought about how unjustly it was said that the forgiveness was imposed on a woman to give birth in torture.
“Doing nothing but wearing – that’s what’s painful,” she thought, imagining her last pregnancy and the death of this last child.
And she remembered a conversation with a young woman in the courtyard.
Asked if she had children, the beautiful young woman answered fun:
There was a girl who was buried by God and was buried by the post.
Do you really regret her? Asked by Daria Alexandrovna.
What to regret?
My grandchildren have so many uncles.
Only care.
Neither work for you nor anything.
Connect only one.
This answer seemed Darje Alexandrovne disgusting, despite the kindness of the young woman, but now she unwillingly remembered those words.
In these cynical words there was a portion of truth.
"Yes and at all," thought Daria Alexandrovna, looking at her whole life for these fifteen years of marriage, -- pregnancy, anguish, stupidity of mind, indifference to everything and, most importantly, disgrace.
Kitty is a young, nice Kitty, and she is so swallowed, and I am pregnant, I know.
Birth, suffering, unpleasant suffering, this last minute... then feeding, these sleepless nights, these pain terrible.
Daria Alexandrovna wiped out of one remembrance of the pain that she experienced with almost every child.
"After children's illness, this fear is eternal; then education, ugly inclinations (she remembered the crime of the little Masha in the maline), teaching, Latin - all this is so incomprehensible and difficult.
And above all, the death of these children.”
And again, in her imagination, her eternally ruining mother's heart emerged the cruel memory of the death of the last, breast boy, who died with a grape, his funeral, the general indifference before this little pink tomb, and her breaking heart, the solitary pain before a blade lobby with swallowing holes, before an open and surprising rotick, seen from the tomb at the moment it was covered with a pink roof with a golden cross.
“And all this why?
What will be of all this?
That I, without a minute of rest, is pregnant, breastfeeding, eternally angry, wrathful, suffering and suffering others, opposed to my husband, will live my life, and will grow unhappy, poorly raised and poor children.
And now, if it wasn’t the summer with the Levins, I don’t know how we would live.
Of course, Kosti and Kiti are so delicate that it is unnoticable to us; but it cannot continue.
They will have children, they will not be able to help us; they are still embarrassed.
What will the father, who has almost nothing left for himself, help?
So I can’t get out of my children alone, but with the help of others, with humiliation.
Well, yes if we assume the happier thing: children will not die anymore, and I will somehow raise them. In the best case, they will not be ugly.
This is all I can wish.
Because of all this, how many torture, labor...
The whole life is lost!”
She again remembered what the young woman said, and again it was hard for her to remember it; but she could not disagree that there was a portion of gross truth in these words.
What is far, Michael? - asked Darya Alexandrovna to the counterman to have fun from her scary thoughts.
From this village, they say, seven verts.
A wheelchair on the street of the village walked to the bridge.
On the bridge, calling and talking fun, a crowd of joyful grandmothers walked with switches behind their shoulders.
Babies stopped on the bridge, curiously looking at the wheel.
All the faces addressed to her appeared to Darie Alexandrovne healthy, joyful, irritating her joy of life.
“Everyone lives, everyone enjoys life,” Daria Alexandrovna continued to think, passing the grandmother, going out to the mountain and again on the rise pleasantly climbing on the soft resorts of the old wheel, and I, as from the prison, released from the world that kills me with concerns, just now remembered a moment.
Everyone is alive: both these grandmothers, and the sister of Natalie, and Varenka, and Anna, to whom I am going, but not me.
They are attacking Anna.
For what?
So, am I better?
At least I have a husband I love.
Not how would I like to love, but I love him, and Anna didn’t love her own?
What is she guilty of?
She wants to live.
God put it in our soul.
Maybe I would do the same.
And I still don’t know if she did well to listen to her in this terrible time when she came to me in Moscow.
I had to leave my husband and start my life first.
I could love and be truly loved.
Is it better now?
I do not respect him.
I need him, she thought about her husband, and I will tolerate him.
Is it better?
I could still like it, I remained my beauty," Daria Alexandrovna continued to think, and she wanted to look in the mirror.
She had a road mirror in the bag, and she wanted to get it; but when she looked at the back of the cushion and the riding counter, she felt that she would be aware if any of them looked and didn’t get the mirror.
But without looking in the mirror, she thought it was not too late, and she remembered Sergey Ivanovich, who was kind to her, Steve's friend, the good Turovcin, who was taking care of her children along with her during the scarlatin and was in love with her. And there was another young man who, as his husband laughed, found that she was the most beautiful of all the sisters.
And the most passionate and impossible novels were presented by Darje Alexandrovne.
“Anna did it great, and I’m not going to blame her.
She’s happy, makes the happiness of another person and isn’t stumbled like me, but, right, as always, fresh, smart, open to everything,” Daria Alexandrovna thought, and Pluto’s smile broke her lips, especially because, thinking about Anna’s novel, parallelly with him, Daria Alexandrovna imagined her almost the same novel with the imaginary collective man who was in love with her.
She, like Anna, acknowledged in all of her husband. And the surprise and confusion of Stepan Arkadić at this news made her smile.
In such dreams, she came to a turn from a large road leading to the Vzдвиженsky.
The dog stopped the fourth and looked to the right, on the red field, on which the men were sitting at the telgae.
The countryman wanted to jump, but then he thought and hurriedly screamed on the man, throwing him to himself.
The wind, which was on the road, was silent when they stopped; the blind clothed the swallowing horses that were angry from them.
The metallic, which was brought from the telga the call of rebound on the hair, was silent. One of the men got up and went to the wheel.
Go to dry! The counterman angryly cried on the slowly staying on the wings of the untouched dry road with the boss's legs. Go what le!
The chicken old man, bound on his hair with a lick, with the dark from the sweat with a thick back, accelerating his step, approached the wheel and took himself with a burned hand for the wing of the wheel.
Up to the bar court? The Count? He repeated it. Only the outlet will go out.
to the left.
Right on the spot, you’ll go.
Who do you? himself?
What are they at home, butterfly? Daria Alexandrovna said uncertainly, without knowing how even the man should ask about Anna.
“That’s right at home,” said the man, passing the boss’s feet and leaving a clear footprint on the dust with five fingers. “It should be at home,” he repeated, apparently wanting to talk. The guests came yesterday.
Guests - Passion
What are you? He turned to him crying something from the telga boy. And that!
They went to the top to watch.
Now it must be at home.
And you who will be?
“We’re far away,” said the dog, climbing up on the cows.
So far away?
I say, there is there. “When you go out,” he said, putting his hand on the wing of the wheel.
A young, healthy, rooted guy came too.
Is there no work about cleaning? He asked him.
I don’t know, butterfly.
“As, therefore, you’ll take to the left, so you’ll be stuck,” said the man, apparently unwillingly leaving the passengers and wanting to talk.
The dog trembled, but they just turned, as the man cried:
Oh my dear! The post. Two voices were crying.
The dog stopped. They go alone! They are out! The man screamed. They fall, they fall! He spoke, indicating the four top and two in the sharabane who were on the road.
These were Vronsky with the Joker, Veslovsky and Anna with the heights and the princess Barbara with Swiazhsky in the sharabane.
They went on to ride and watch the action of the newly brought boiling cars.
When the crew stopped, the top members took a step.
In front, Anna was driving next to Veslovsky.
Anna was driving a quiet step on a low-density English cube with a cut grape and a short tail.
Her beautiful head with broken black hair from under a high hat, her full shoulders, a thin belt in a black Amazon and all the quiet gracious landing hit Dolly.
In the first minute she seemed unpleasant that Anna was riding up.
With the idea of the top ride for the lady in the concept of Daria Alexandrovna, the idea of a young light cocktail, which, in her opinion, did not go to the position of Anna; but when she looked at her nearby, she immediately reconciled with her top ride.
Despite the elegance, everything was so simple, quiet and decent in both the poses, the clothes, and the movements of Anna that nothing could be more natural.
Along with Anna on a gray burned cavalry horse, pulling thick legs forward and, obviously, falling in love with himself, Vasenka Veslovsky was driving in a Scottish coat with scattering stripes, and Daria Alexandrovna couldn’t hold a joyful smile by knowing him.
Behind them was Vronsky.
Under him was a bloody, dark-fledged horse, apparently burning on the galope. He, holding her down, worked for a reason.
He followed a young man in a jacket costume.
Swiazhsky with the princess in a new sharabane on a large bridge was pursuing the top.
The face of Anna, at the moment she saw Dolly in a small corner of the old wheel, suddenly glowed with a joyful smile.
She screamed, dropped on the seat and hit the horse with a galop.
Upon entering the wheel, she jumped without help and, supporting the Amazon, fled to Dolley.
I thought so and didn’t dare to think.
Here is joy!
You can’t imagine my joy! — she said, then pressing her face to Dolly and kissing her, then leaving and looking at her with a smile.
This is joy, Alex. She said, looking at Vronsky, who came down from the horse and approached them.
Wronsky, taking a gray high hat, approached Dolly.
“You won’t believe how happy we are with your arrival,” he said, giving special importance to the words and the smile, opening up his strong white teeth.
Vasenka Veslovsky, not sliding from the horse, took off his hat and, welcoming the guest, joyfully mocked her with stripes over her head.
“This is the princess of Barbara,” Anna answered the questioning look of Dolly when the sharabans came up.
A! - said Darya Alexandrovna, and her face unintentionally expressed dissatisfaction.
Princess Barbara was the aunt of her husband, and she knew her for a long time and did not respect her.
She knew that the princess Barbara spent her whole life living with the rich relatives; but the fact that she now lived with Wronsky, a stranger to her, insulted her for her husband’s homeland.
Anna noticed the expression of Dolly’s face and was confused, reddened, released an Amazon from her hands and met her.
Daria Alexandrovna approached the stopped sharabane and coldly greeted the princess Barbara.
Switzerland was also familiar.
He asked how his stranger-friend is living with a young wife, and, looking at the running look of the unparish horses and the wing wings of the wheel, offered the ladies to ride in the sharabane.
“I’m going to go to this vegan,” he said. The horse is peaceful, and the princess runs well.
“No, stay as you were,” said Anna, “and we’re going in the wheel,” and, taking Dolly’s hand, she took her up.
Darya Alexandrovna was looking forward to this elegant, unseen crew, to these beautiful horses, to those elegant brilliant faces surrounding her.
But she was most impressed by the change that happened in her acquainted and beloved Anna.
Another woman, less attentive, who had not known Anna before and especially not thought of those thoughts that Daria Alexandrovna thought dear, and would not notice anything special in Anna.
But now Dolly was impressed by that temporary beauty that only in a minute of love happens to women and which she has now put on Anna’s face.
Everything in her face: the certainty of the butterflies of the butterflies, the storage of the lips, the smile that seemed to fly around her face, the brightness of the eyes, the grace and the speed of movements, the fullness of the sounds of the voice, even the manner with which she gently answered the Veslovsky, asking her for permission to sit on her coba to learn his galope from the right foot, — everything was attractive; and it seemed that she knew it and was glad of it.
When the two women sat in the wheel, they both suddenly found trouble.
Anna was disturbed by the carefully questioning look Dolly looked at her; Dolly was disturbed by the fact that after Sviazhsky’s words about the vegy, she was unwillingly aware of the dirty old wheel in which Anna was sitting with her.
Coach Philip and the container experienced the same feeling.
The counterman, to hide his disturbance, sinked, sinking the dams, but Philip the puppy became dark and forward prepared not to obey this external superiority.
He ironicly smiled, looking at the brick and already decided in his mind that this brick in the sharabane is good only for passing and will not pass forty verts in the heat in one stretch.
The men all got up from the telga and curiously and joyfully watched the meeting of the guests, making their comments.
“That’s also happy, they’ve not been seen for a long time,” said the chicken old man bound with a stick.
“Behold, uncle Gerasim, the wreck of the wreck would drive the snows, it would live!
Look at it.
Is this a woman in the pockets? - said one of them, indicating the woman who sat on the seat Vasenko Veslovsky.
No the man.
It looks like he went out gently!
What do you sleep, you see, don’t?
- What a dream today! - said the old man, looking at the sun. Midnight, see it has passed.
Take the cracks, go!
Anna looked at Dolly’s dirty, tormented face with a dirty dust, and she wanted to say what she thought, that Dolly was weakening; but remembering that she was weakening herself and that Dolly’s eyes told her that, she breathed and spoke about herself.
“You look at me,” she said, “and you think I can be happy in my position?
Well and what!
It’s a shame to admit, but I’m unforgivably happy.
Something magical has happened to me, like a dream, when it becomes terrible, horrible, and suddenly you wake up and feel that all of these fears are not.
I woke up.
I've suffered painful, terrible and now for a long time, especially since we've been here, so happy!.. She said, with a lazy smile of the question looking at Dolly.
How I am glad! - Smiling, Dolly said, unwillingly colder than she wanted. I am very happy for you.
Why did you not write to me?
Why?
Because I don’t dare, you forget my position.
to me?
Not courageous?
If you knew how I...
I think...
Daria Alexandrovna wanted to say her thoughts of this morning, but for a reason it seemed to her now not in place.
But about that after.
What are all these buildings? She asked, wanting to change the conversation and pointing to the red and green roofs, seen because of the green of the living trees, the acatia and the sirene. Just the city.
Anna did not answer her.
No No No No!
What do you think about my situation, what do you think? She asked.
- I think... - the beginning was Daria Alexandrovna, but at that time Vasenka Veslovsky, putting a coba on a gallop with his right leg, hardly sliding in his short jacket about the mosaic of the female seat, propagated through them.
Come, Anna Arkadievna! He screamed.
Anna didn’t even look at him; but again Darie Alexandrovne seemed that it was uncomfortable in the wheel to start this long conversation, and that’s why she shortened her thought.
“I don’t count anything,” she said, “but I’ve always loved you, and if you love, you love all the person as he is, not as I want him to be.
Anna, removing her eyes from a friend’s face and feeling (this was a new habit that Dolly didn’t know for her), thought, wanting to fully understand the meaning of these words.
And, obviously, understood them as she wanted, she looked at Dolly.
“If you have any sins,” she said, “they would all forgive you for your coming and these words.
And Dolly saw that tears came out on her eyes.
She silently touched Anna's hand.
So what about these buildings?
How many of them! After a minute of silence, she repeated her question.
“This is the house of the servants, the factory, the countryside,” Anna answered. And this park begins.
It was all started, but Alexey restored it.
He loved this name very much, and what I didn’t expect, he was passionate about the farming.
This is so rich nature!
Whatever he takes, he does everything greatly.
He is not only not missing, but he is passionate.
He—as I know him—he became a compelling, beautiful master, he was even a coward in the farming.
Only in the farming. Where it’s about tens of thousands, he doesn’t think, she spoke with that joyful smile with which women often talk about the secrets, one of the uncovered properties of a loved one. Do you see this large building?
This is a new hospital.
I think it will cost more than a hundred thousand.
This is his dad now.
Do you know why it came from?
The men asked him to give up them cheaper, it seems, and he refused, and I accused him of scaredness.
Of course, not from that, but all together, he started this hospital to show you understand how he is not expensive.
If you want, c'est une petitesse; but I love him even more for it.
Now you will see the house.
It’s still the grandfather’s house, and it’s nothing changed outside.
How good! “Dolly said, with an unwilling surprise looking at the beautiful column house that stands out of the colorful green of the old trees of the garden.
Isn’t it true, good?
And from the house, from above, the look is amazing.
They entered the hilled and flourished courtyard, where two workers placed the explosive flower clumps with unfabricated nested stones, and stopped in the covered entrance.
They have already come! “Anna said, looking at the top horses, which were just removed from the wing. Is this horse good? This is COB.
My favourite.
Take it here and give it sugar.
The Count Where? She asked the two parade lakes. Here is he too! She said, when she saw Vronsky coming out to her with Veslovsky.
Where do you place the princess? - said Vronsky in French, addressing Anne, and, not waiting for the answer, again greeted Daria Alexandrovna and now kissed her hand. I think in a large balcony.
No, it is far away!
Better in the corner, we will see more.
Well, let’s go,” Anna said, giving her lacky sugar to her favourite horse.
“Et vous oubliez votre devoir,” she said to the above also on the wing of Veslovsky.
- Pardon, j'en ai tout plein les poches, - smile, he replied, putting his fingers in the jacket pocket.
— Mais vois venez trop tard, — she said, washing her hand with a plate, which she was moisted by a horse taking sugar.
Anna spoke to Dolly: Do you have a long time?
for one day?
This is impossible! “I promised so, and the kids,” Dolly said, feeling troubled and because she had to take a bag from the wheel, and because she knew that her face should be very frozen.
“No, Dolly, the butterfly...
Well we will see.
Let us go, let us go! And Anna brought Dolly to her room.
This room was not the parade that Wronsky offered, but the one for which Anna said Dolly would apologize to her.
And the room for which I was to apologize was filled with luxury that Dolly never lived in and that reminded her of the best hotels abroad.
Oh my daughter, how happy I am! - for a minute sitting in her Amazon under Dolly, Anna said. Tell me about yours.
I saw Steve a little.
He cannot tell about the children.
What is my favorite Tania?
A big girl, I think.
“Yes, very big,” Darya Alexandrovna answered briefly, wondering that she was so cold to answer about her children. “We live beautifully with the Levins,” she added.
“Hey, if I knew,” Anna said, “you’d not neglect me...you’d all come to us.
After all, Steve is an old and big friend with Alexey, she added and suddenly reddened.
“Yes, but we’re so good,” Dolly answered.
I am pleased to say stupidity.
One, sweetheart, how I am glad to you! Anna said, kissing her again. You haven’t told me what you think about me yet, and I want to know everything.
I am glad you will see me what I am.
I’t want them to think I want to prove anything.
I don’t want to prove anything, I just want to live; I don’t do evil to anyone except myself.
I have the right, right?
However, this is a long conversation, and we will still negotiate well about it all.
I’m going to dress up and I’ll send you a girl.
Leaving alone, Daria Alexandrovna looked at her house.
Everything she saw, entering the house and passing through it, and now in her room, everything made her an impression of the abundance and glory and that new European luxury, which she only read in English novels, but never seen in Russia and in the village.
Everything was new, from the French new coats to the coat that was covered by the whole room.
The bed was sprinkled with a mattress and with a special headline and canus switches on small switches.
The marble washing machine, the toilet, the bag, the tables, the bronz clocks on the stone, the gardens and the ports — all this was expensive and new.
Coming to offer its services franchise mountain, in hairstyle and dress more fashionable than Dolly, was as new and expensive as the whole room.
Darie Alexandrovne was pleased with her kindness, operness and servitude, but it was uncomfortable with her; she was conscious to her for her, as in trouble, by mistake placed her paid cofflet.
She was ashamed for the same wages and scattered places that she was so proud of at home.
At home it was clear that for six cofflets it was necessary for twenty-four arshins of nanzuku for sixty-five coffles, which was more than fifteen rubles, in addition to decoration and work, and these fifteen rubles were invented.
But before the mountain was not something shameful, but uncomfortable.
Daria Alexandrovna felt great relief when her old acquaintance, Annuška, entered the room.
Franticha mountain demanded to the bar, and Anushka remained with Darya Alexandrovna.
Annuška was obviously very pleased to come to the bar and spoke without prejudice.
Dolly noticed that she wanted to express her opinion about Barney’s situation, especially about the graffiti’s love and devotion to Anna Arkadievna, but Dolly carefully stopped her as soon as she began to talk about it.
I and Anna Arkadievna have grown up, they are the most expensive for me.
Don’t judge us.
And it seems like to love...
“Yes, please give up to wash if you can,” Daria Alexandrovna broke her.
I listen to S.
We have two women attached special, and the clothes are all by the car.
The Count goes to everything.
What a husband...
Dolly was happy when Anna came to her and with her arrival stopped Annuška's bowling.
Anna turned into a very simple batist dress.
Dolly looked carefully on this simple dress.
She knew what it meant and for what money this simplicity was acquired.
— An old acquaintance — said Anna to Annuška.
Anna was no longer disturbed.
She was completely free and quiet.
Dolly saw that she was now completely recovered from the impression that the arrival produced on her, and took on herself that superficial, indifferent tone, in which it was as if the door to the department where her feelings and breathed thoughts were located was closed.
What about your girl, Anna? I asked Dolly.
Annie? (This is how she called her daughter Anna.)
Healthy is.
Very well fixed.
Do you want to see her?
Go, I will show you it.
There was a lot of trouble — she began to talk — with her grandmother.
We had an Italian girl.
Good, but so stupid!
We wanted to send her, but the girl was so accustomed to her that we still keep it.
But how did you arrange? In the beginning, Dolly was asking what the name the girl would be; but, having noticed the suddenly dark face of Anna, she changed the meaning of the question. How did you organize? Has she been taken?
And Anna understood.
Did you not want to ask?
Do you want to ask about her name?
the truth?
It suffers Alexis.
She has no name.
That is, she is Karenina, — said Anna, turning her eyes so that only the rings that had come were visible. But - suddenly illuminated by the face - we all will negotiate this afterwards.
Go, I will show you it.
She is three gentils. It is already useful.
In children’s luxury, which in the whole house hit Darya Alexandrovna, even more hit her.
There were both roofs, drawn from England, and tools for learning to walk, and a deliberately arranged sofa like a billard, for walking, and roofs, and baths special, new.
It was all English, strong and gentle and obviously very expensive.
The room was large, very high and bright.
When they entered, the girl in one shirt was sitting in a chair at the table and eating with the bull with which she wrapped her entire chest.
The girl was fed and, obviously, the girl was eaten with herself by a Russian girl who served in the children's room.
There were neither nurses nor nurses; they were in the neighboring room, and from there they heard their speech in a strange French language, in which they could only speak to each other.
Hearing the voice of Anna, dressed, high, with an unpleasant face and unclean expression of the English woman, suddenly shaken with white-corn letters, entered the door and immediately began to justify, although Anna had nothing to blame her.
On each word, the English woman suddenly said several times, “Yes, my lady.”
The black-black, black-haired, ruby girl, with a strong, chicken skin, red body, despite the harsh expression she looked at the new face, liked Dario Alexandrovna very much; she even envy her healthy appearance.
The way that she was doing, she also liked it very much.
None of her children did so.
This girl, when she was placed on the cover and pulled the dress behind, was surprisingly cute.
She, like a beast, looking at the big with her brilliant black eyes, obviously rejoicing that she is loved, smiling and holding her legs on the side, energically stumbled on her hands and quickly stretched the whole back and again forward captured her handbags.
But the common spirit of childhood and especially the English very much didn’t like Darje Alexandrovne.
Just by the fact that in such a wrong family as Anna, a good woman would not go, Daria Alexandrovna explained to herself that Anna, with her knowledge of the people, could take to her girl such an unpleasant, unrespectable English woman.
In addition, at the same time, in a few words, Daria Alexandrovna realized that Anna, the nurse, grandmother and the child did not live together and that visiting the mother was an unusual thing.
Anna wanted to get her toy to her girl and couldn’t find her.
The most surprising thing was that when asked about how many teeth she had, Anna was wrong and didn’t know about the last two teeth.
– Sometimes it’s hard for me that I’m like an excess here, – said Anna, coming out of the children’s room and carrying her shelf to pass the toys standing at the door. It wasn’t with the first.
“I thought the opposite,” Darya Alexandrovna said stupidly.
Oh no no!
For you know, I saw him, Sereza, — said Anna, compassionate, looking into something far away. We will negotiate this afterwards.
You won’t believe, I’m just hungry, who suddenly got a full lunch, and he doesn’t know what to take.
Full lunch is you and my upcoming conversations with you, which I could not have with anyone; and I don’t know which conversation to take first.
But je ne vois frai grace de rien.
I have to say everything.
Yes, you have to make a picture of the society that you will find with us - it begins. I start with women.
The princess of Barbara.
You know her, and I know your opinion and Steve about her.
Steve says that the whole goal of her life is to prove her advantage over the grandmother Catherine Pavlovna; it’s all true; but she’s good, and I’m so grateful to her.
There was a minute in St. Petersburg when I needed a chaperon.
She came here.
But right, she is good.
It greatly relieved my situation.
I see that you don’t understand all the severity of my situation... there, in St. Petersburg, she added. I am quiet and happy here. Well, that is after.
must be listed.
Then Swiazhsky is a leader, and he is a very decent man, but he needs something from Alexey.
You understand, with his state, now as we settled in the village, Alexey can have a great influence.
Then Tushkiewicz, you saw him, he was with Betty.
He was sent away, and he came to us.
He, as Alexey says, is one of those people who are very pleasant if they take them for what they want to look, et puis, comme il faut, as princess Barbara says.
And then Veslovsky, you know that.
A very cute boy, she said, and the Pluto smile smiled her lips. What is this wild story with Levin?
Veslovsky told Alexey, and we don’t believe.
“Il est tres gentil et naif,” she said again with the same smile. Men need entertainment, and Alexey needs a public, so I appreciate all this society.
We need to be alive and fun and that Alexey doesn’t want anything new.
Then the governor, the German, is very good and knows his business.
Alexis appreciates him very much.
Then the doctor, a young man, is not a completely nihilistic, but, you know, he eats with a knife... but a very good doctor.
Then the architect...
A small cour.
“Well, you and Dolly, princess, you so wanted to see her,” Anna said, along with Darya Alexandrovna, going out on a large stone terrace, on which in the shadow, behind the fingers, lifting a chair for Count Alexey Kirillovich, the princess Barbara was sitting. She says she doesn’t want anything until lunch, but you want to make breakfast, and I’m going to eat Alexey and bring them all.
Princess Barbara welcomed Dolly and immediately began to explain to her that she settled with Anna because she always loved her more than her sister, Catherine Pavlovna, the one who raised Anna, and that now, when everyone left Anna, she considered her duty to help her in this transitional, most difficult period.
My husband will give her a divorce, and then I will go to my loneliness again, and now I can be helpful and fulfill my duty, how hard it is to me, not like others.
And how cute you, how good you did that you came!
They live like the best spouses; they will be judged by God, not by us.
By the way, Biruzovsky and Avinyev...
And Nikandrov himself, and Vasilyev with Mammon, and Lisa Neptunov.
No one said anything?
And it ended with that they were all accepted.
And then, c'est un interieur si joli, si comme il faut.
Tout-a-fait a l'anglaise
On se reunit le matin au breakfast and then on se separe.
Everyone does what he wants before lunch.
Lunch at 7 hours.
Steve did very well that he sent you.
He has to keep them.
He can do everything through his mother and brother.
Then they do a lot of good.
Did he not tell you about his hospital?
What will be admirable, all from Paris.
The conversation was interrupted by Anna, who found the men’s community in the billard and returned to the terrace with them.
There was still a lot of time before lunch, the weather was great, and therefore several different ways were proposed to spend these remaining two hours.
The ways to spend time were very many in Vzдвиженsk, and all were not the ones that were used in Pokrovsk.
- Une partie de lawn tennis, - smiling with his beautiful smile, suggested Veslovsky. We are with you again, Anna Arkadievna.
“No, it’s hot; it’s better to go through the garden and go on a boat, to show Darje Alexandrovne’s shore,” Vronsky suggested.
“I agree with everything,” Swiazhsky said.
I think Dolly is the best way to go, right?
And then in the boat,” Anna said.
So was decided.
Veslovsky and Tuskaevich went to the bathroom and there promised to prepare the boat and wait.
Two couples went on the road, Anna with Sviazhsky and Dolly with Vronsky.
Dolly was a bit disturbed and worried about that completely new environment for her in which she felt.
Rejected, in theory, she not only justified, but even approved Anna’s action.
As in general, often unusually moral women, tired of the uniformity of moral life, she was far from not only apologizing for crime love, but even jealous of it.
She also loved Anna with her heart.
But in fact, seeing her in the middle of these strange people for her, with their new to Darya Alexandrovna good tone, she was unpleasant.
In particular, it was unpleasant for her to see the princess Barbara, who all forgiven them for the comfort she had.
In general, distracted, Dolly approved the act of Anna, but it was unpleasant for her to see the person for whom the act was done.
In addition, Vronsky never liked her.
She considered him very proud and saw nothing in him that he could be proud of except the wealth.
But, against his will, he was here, at his home, even more impressed by her than before, and she could not be free with him.
She experienced a feeling with him, similar to what she experienced with a cage for a cage.
As before the mining she was not something shy, but unpleasant for payments, so with him she was constantly not something shy, but unpleasant for herself.
Dolly felt troubled and sought the subject of the conversation.
Although she believed that with her pride he should be unpleasant by the praise of his house and garden, she, not finding another subject of conversation, still told him that she really liked his house.
“Yes, it’s a very beautiful building and in a good, old style,” he said.
I liked the garden in front of the wing.
Was it so?
- No! - he said, and his face glowed out of pleasure. If you could see this garden this spring!
And he began, first carefully, and then more and more enthusiastic, to pay her attention to the different details of the decoration of the house and garden.
It was apparent that, devoted a lot of work to improving and decorating his settlement, Vronsky felt the need to praise them in front of a new face and from his soul rejoiced the praise of Darya Alexandrovna.
If you want to look at the hospital and don’t get tired, it’s not far away.
Let’s go,” he said, looking at her face to make sure she was not bored.
Will you go, Anna? He turned to her.
We will go.
isn’t it true? She turned to Swish. But it is not necessary to let the poor Veslovsky and Tuskhevich morfondre the dans le bateau.
I have to send them to tell.
Yes, this is the monument he will leave here, — said Anna, addressing Dolly with the same trick, knowing the smile she had previously talked about the hospital.
— Oh, the capital thing! — said Swiazhsky.
But in order not to appear misleading to Vronsky, he immediately added a slightly condemning comment. “I am surprised, however, Count,” he said, “as you, doing so much in the sanitary regard for the people, are so indifferent to the schools.
“C’est devenu tellement commun les ecoles,” Wronsky said. You understand, not of that, but yeah, I’m fooled.
So here we need to go to the hospital, - he addressed Dario Alexandrovna, indicating the side output from the alley.
The women opened their clothes and went out on the side road.
After passing a few turns and coming out of the calice, Daria Alexandrovna saw a large red shape in a high place before her, a near-finished building.
The uncolored iron roof blinked blindly at the bright sun.
At the bottom of the finished building was placed another, surrounded by forests, and the workers in the fortresses on the mountains placed the tubes and wrapped the castle from the shakes and uniformed the rules.
How fast you’re going to work! – said Swiazhsky. When I was the last time, there was no roof yet.
By autumn everything will be ready.
“It’s almost all done inside,” Anna said.
What is this new?
“This is a room for the doctor and the pharmacy,” Wronsky replied, seeing the architect coming to him in a short jacket, and, apologizing before the ladies, went to him.
Having made a work from which the workers picked up a flagship, he stopped with the architect and something hot began to speak.
“Front is all down,” he replied to Anna, who asked what it was about.
“I said we had to raise the foundation,” Anna said.
- Yes, of course, it would be better, Anna Arkadievna, - said the architect, - that it was forgotten.
“Yes, I’m very interested in this,” said Anna Swiazhsky, who was surprised by her knowledge of architecture. The new building should be in accordance with the hospital. It was invented after and started without a plan.
Finishing the conversation with the architect, Vronsky joined the ladies and brought them into the hospital.
Despite the fact that outdoors were still decorated and painted in the lower floor, at the top almost everything was separated.
Going through a widespread staircase to the square, they entered the first large room.
The walls were stumbled under marble, huge whole windows were already placed, only the parquet floor was not yet finished, and the chairs strictly lifted the square, left work so that, removing the shells holding their hair, they greet the lords.
“It’s acceptable,” said Vronsky. There will be a pipe, a table, a closet and nothing more.
Go here, go here.
Don’t get to the window,” Anna said, trying to see if the paint was dry. “Alexey, the paint is already dry,” she added.
From the reception they went to the corridor.
Here Vronsky showed them the built-in ventilation of the new system.
Then he showed the marble baths, beds with unusual stripes.
Then he showed one after another the chamber, the warehouse, the clothing room, then the oven of the new device, then the points such that will not produce noise, carrying the necessary things through the corridor, and a lot more.
Swiazhsky appreciated everything as a person knowing all the new improvements.
Dolly was simply surprised by what she had not seen so far, and, wanting to understand everything, she asked everything in detail, what brought the obvious pleasure to Vronsky.
“Yes, I think this will be the only well-established hospital in Russia,” Sviazhsky said.
Do you have a parental office? I asked Dolly. This is what we need in the village.
I often...
Despite his kindness, Vronsky overturned her.
“This is not a birthplace, but a hospital, and is prescribed for all diseases except infectious,” he said. - But look at it... - and he raised to Darje Alexandrovne a rewrite chair for the healers. You will look. He sat on a chair and began to move him. He can't walk, he's still weak or his legs ill, but he needs air, and he runs, he runs.
Darya Alexandrovna was interested in everyone, everything she liked very much, but the most she liked Vronsky himself with this natural naive passion.
“Yes, he’s a very cute, good man,” she thought sometimes, not listening to him, but looking at him and entering his expression and mentally moving to Anna.
He liked her so much now in her revival that she understood how Anna could fall in love with him.
“No, I think the princess is tired, and the horses are not interested in her,” said Vronsky Anna, who offered to go to the horse factory, where Swiazhsky wanted to see a new horse. “You go, and I’ll take the princess home, and we’ll talk,” he said, “if you’re happy,” he turned to her.
“I don’t understand anything in the horses, and I’m very happy,” said somewhat surprised Darya Alexandrovna.
She saw at Wronsky’s face that he needed something from her.
She did not mistake.
As soon as they entered the canyon again into the garden, he looked to the side where Anna went, and, making sure that she could not hear or see them, he began:
Did you think I wanted to talk to you? He said, with laughing eyes looking at her. I’m not wrong that you’re Anna’s friend. He took off his hat and, delivering the plates, took off his scratched head to them.
Darya Alexandrovna did not answer anything and only looked at him scaredly.
When she stayed alone with him, suddenly she was scared: the laughing eyes and the strict expression of her face scared her.
The most varied assumptions of what he’s going to talk to her blinked in her head: “He’ll ask me to go to them to visit with children, and I’ll have to refuse him; or that I’ll make a circle for Anna in Moscow...
Or not about Vasenko Veslovsky and his relationship with Anna?
Or maybe about Kitty, that he feels guilty?”
She predicted everything unpleasant, but she didn’t imagine what he wanted to talk to her about.
“You have such an influence on Anna, she loves you so much,” he said, “help me.
Daria Alexandrovna questionably looked at his energetic face, which all, then places came out to the light of the sun in the shadow of the lip, then again shaded in the shadow, and expected that he would say further, but he, wrapping to the shadows, silently walked under her.
“If you came to us, you, the only woman of Anna’s former friends – I don’t consider her princess Barbara – then I understand that you did it not because you consider our situation normal, but because you, understood the gravity of this situation, still love her and want to help her.
So did I understand you? He asked when he looked at her.
“Oh, yes,” Daria Alexandrovna answered, “but...
- No, - he beat and unwillingly, forgotten that he put his interlocutor in an unpleasant position, stopped, so that she had to stop. No one greater or stronger than me feels all the severity of the situation of Anna. And that’s understandable if you make me honour to consider me a person with a heart.
I am the cause of this situation, and that’s why I feel it.
“I understand,” said Daria Alexandrovna, unwillingly loving them, how honestly and firmly he said this. “But just because you feel the cause, you exaggerate, I’m afraid,” she said. The situation is hard in the light, I understand.
- In the light it is hell! - darkly swallowed, he quickly spoke. “You can’t imagine moral suffering worse than that she experienced in St. Petersburg in two weeks... and I ask you to believe it.
“Yes, but here, until Anne... nor do you feel the need in the light...
The light! He said with negligence. What can I need in the light?
So far – and that can always be – you’re happy and quiet.
I see on Anna that she is happy, completely happy, she has already been able to tell me, — said Darya Alexandrovna smiling; and unwillingly, saying this, she now doubts about whether Anna is really happy.
But Vronsky seemed to have no doubt about it.
“Yes, yes,” he said. I know she has survived after all her suffering; she is happy.
He is happy with the real.
But I? I am afraid of what is waiting for me.
Do you want to go?
No, no matter what.
So, let’s sit here.
Daria Alexandrovna sat on a garden shelter in the corner of the alley.
He stopped before her.
“I see she’s happy,” he repeated, and the doubt of whether she’s happy hit Darya Alexandrovna even stronger. But can it continue so?
Well, badly we did, this is another question; but the gathering is abandoned, he said, moving from Russian to French, and we are connected for a lifetime.
We are united by the holy ones of love.
We have a child, we may have other children.
But the law and all the conditions of our position are such that they are thousands of complications which it now, resting with soul after all suffering and trial, does not see and does not want to see.
And that is understandable.
But I cannot not see.
My daughter according to the law is not my daughter, but Karenina.
I don't want this deception! - he said with an energetic gesture of denial and looked darkly to Darya Alexandrovna.
She didn’t answer anything and just looked at him.
He continued:
And tomorrow will be a son, my son, and he according to the law, Karenin, he is not the heir of my name, nor of my state, and no matter how happy we are in the family, and no matter how many children we have, there is no connection between me and them.
They are Karenina.
You will understand the pain and horror of this situation!
I tried to talk about Anna. It annoys her.
She doesn’t understand, and I can’t tell her everything.
Now look from the other side.
I am happy with her love, but I have to have lessons.
I have found this occupation, and I am proud of this occupation, and I consider it more noble than the occupation of my former comrades at the courtyard and at the service.
And now, without a doubt, I am not changing this case to their affairs.
I work here, sitting on a place, and I’m happy, happy, and we don’t need anything else for happiness.
I love this activity.
Cela n'est pas un pis-aller
Darya Alexandrovna noticed that in this place of his explanation he was fooled, and didn’t understand this withdrawal well, but felt that once he began to talk about his depressed relationships that he couldn’t talk about with Anna, he was now saying everything and that the question of his activities in the village was in the same section of depressed thoughts as the question of his relationships with Anna.
“I’m going to go,” he said, waking up. The main thing is that when I work, I need to be convinced that my affairs will not die with me, that I will have inheritors, and that I do not have.
Imagine the position of a person who knows that his children and his loved wife will not be his, but someone, someone who hates them and doesn’t want to know.
It is terrible!
He was silent, obviously, in a strong enthusiasm.
Yes, of course I understand it.
What can Anna do? Asked by Daria Alexandrovna.
“Yes, this leads me to the purpose of my conversation,” he said, with an effort to calm. “Anna may, it depends on her.
Even in order to ask the citizen for adoption, divorce is necessary. It depends on Anna.
Her husband agreed to divorce — then your husband had completely arranged it.
And now, I know, he’t refuse.
It would only be worth writing to him.
He directly replied that if he expressed his desire, he will not refuse.
Of course, — said he darkly, — this is one of these Phariseus cruelty, which only these people without heart are able to do.
He knows what torture it is for every memory of him, and, knowing it, requires a letter from him.
I understand that she is suffering. But the reasons are so important that you have to pass pardessus all these finesses of sentiment.
Il y va du bonheur et de l'existence d'Anne et de ses enfants.
I’m not talking about myself, though it’s hard for me, it’s very hard for me,” he said with a threat to someone for what was hard for him. “So, princess, I take it unconsciously for you, as a rescue for you.
Help me tell her to write to him and ask for divorce!
“Yes, of course,” Daria Alexandrovna thoughtfully said, remembering her last date with Alexey Alexandrovich. “Yes, of course,” she repeated firmly, remembering Anna.
Use your influence on her, make her write. I don’t want and almost can’t talk to her about it.
Well, I will talk.
But why does she not think? -Daria Alexandrovna said, suddenly for some reason, reminding of Anna's strange new habit of kissing.
And she remembered that Anna was crazy, just when it was about the breathing sides of life.
“It’s just her life that she shakes, so that she doesn’t see everything,” Dolly thought. “I will definitely talk to her for myself and for her,” Daria Alexandrovna replied to his gratitude.
They stood up and went home.
When Dolly was back, Anna looked carefully in her eyes, asking about the conversation she had with Vronsky, but she didn’t ask words.
“It seems it’s time for lunch,” she said. We haven’t seen it yet.
I am waiting for the evening.
Now we have to go dressing. I think, and you too.
We all went out on the building.
Dolly went to her room, and she was laughing.
It was nothing to dress her, because she had already dressed her best clothes; but in order to indicate something about her lunch preparation, she asked the puppy to clean her clothes, she changed her gloves and bands, and she worn a circle on her head.
“This is all I could do,” she smiled and said to Anna, who in the third, again in an extremely simple dress, came out to her.
“Yes, we’re very gentle here,” she said, apologizing for her narrowness. - Alexey is pleased with your arrival, as he rarely happens something.
He is strongly in love with you, she added. Are you not tired?
There was no time to talk about anything before lunch.
When they entered the living room, they stood there already the princess Barbara and men in black suitcases.
The architect was in the trap.
Vronsky presented the guest of the doctor and manager. He met the architect in the hospital.
A thick palace, glowing with a round bright face and a crushed band of white garlic, that the cooking was ready, and the ladies got up.
Vronsky asked Sviazhsky to give his hand to Anna Arkadievna, and he approached Dolly himself.
Veslovsky before Tuskiewicz gave the hand to the prince Barbara, so that Tuskiewicz and the governor and the doctor went alone.
Lunch, dining, dishes, servants, wine and cooking not only matched the general tone of the new luxury of the house, but they seemed to be even more luxurious and new.
Darya Alexandrovna observed this new luxury for herself, and, as the owner of the house, — though not hoping to apply anything of all that is seen to her house, so it was all in luxury far above her way of life — involuntaryly penetrated in all the details and asked herself who and how did it all.
Vasenka Veslovsky, her husband and even Sviazhsky and many of the people she knew never thought about it and believed in a word that every decent master wants to make his guests feel, that everything that was so well arranged with him, did not cost him, the master, any effort, but was done by himself.
Darya Alexandrovna knew that there was not even a snack for breakfast for children, and that therefore, with such a complex and beautiful device, some of them had to be paid more attention. And in the sight of Alexey Kirillovich, how he looked at the table, and how he made the sign of the palace head, and how Dario Alexander offered the choice between the bottle and the soup, she understood that everything was done and supported by the care of the owner himself.
From Anna, obviously, it all depended no more than from Veslovsky.
She, Swiazhsky, Prince and Veslovsky were equally guests, enjoying what was prepared for them.
Anna was the owner of the conversation.
And this conversation, very difficult for the owner of the house at a small table, with persons like a manager and an architect, persons of a completely different world, seeking not to do in the face of unusual luxury and unable to take a long participation in the general conversation, this difficult conversation Anna conducted with her ordinary tact, naturality and even pleasure, as Daria Alexandrovna observed.
The conversation was about how Tuskevitch and Veslovsky were alone on a boat, and Tuskevitch began to talk about the last races in St. Petersburg in the Yacht Club.
But Anna, waiting for a break, immediately turned to the architect to get him out of silence.
“Nikolai Ivanić was surprised,” she said about Swiazhsky, “how the new building has grown since it was here for the last time; but I myself have been there every day and I am surprised every day how soon it comes.
- With his brightness work well, - said the architect with a smile (he was with the consciousness of his dignity, a respectful and quiet person). Not to deal with the Governorate.
Wherever the foot of the paper is written, I will report to the graffiti, cover, and in three words.
“American recepts,” Sviazhsky said, smiling.
– Yes, the buildings are built rationally...
The conversation went on to abuse the authorities in the United States, but Anna immediately translated it to another topic to call the ruler out of silence.
Have you ever seen the wiped cars? She addressed Dario Alexandrovna. We went to see you when we met you.
I saw it myself for the first time.
How do they act? I asked Dolly.
Just like a knife.
A lot of pieces and a lot of small knives.
Here is so.
Anna took her beautiful, white, hand-covered rings of legs and wings and began to show.
She obviously saw that nothing would be understood from her explanation; but knowing that she spoke pleasantly and that her hands were beautiful, she continued the explanation.
“Rather, the knives are butterflies,” said Veslovsky, playing, not leaving the eye from it.
Anna smiled a little, but did not answer him.
“Isn’t it true, Karl Fedoric, that’s like the knives? She addressed the manager.
“Oh yeah,” the German answered. — Es ist ein ganz einfaches Ding, — and began to explain the machine’s device.
I'm sorry she doesn't bind.
I saw at the Vienna exhibition, hanging with a wire, Sviazhsky said. They would be more profitable.
Es commt drauf an... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden. And the German, called out of silence, turned to Vronsky: Das lasst sich ausrechnen, Erlaucht. The German had already taken the pocket, where he had a pencil in the booklet, in which he was all counting, but remembering that he was sitting for lunch, and noticing the cold look of Vronsky, he abstained. “Zu complicirt, macht zu viel Klopot,” he concluded.
- Wunscht man Dochots, so hat man auch Klopots, - said Vasenka Veslovsky, supporting the German. “J’adore l’allemand,” he turned again with the same smile to Anna.
— Cessez — she said to him ridiculously and strictly. - And we thought you would stand on the field, Vasily Semenić, - she turned to the doctor, a painful man, - you were there?
“I was there, but I went away,” the doctor answered with a dark joke.
You have done a good motion.
Great is!
What about the health of the old man? I hope it’s not a typhus.
Typhus is not a typhus, and it is not found in the submission.
— What a shame! — said Anna and, giving this kind of kindness to the households, turned to her.
“And yet, according to your story, it would be hard to build a car, Anna Arkadievna,” Sviazhsky laughed.
No, why not? - Anna said with a smile, who said she knew that in her interpretation of the machine was something cute, noticed and Swiazhsky.
This new feature of young cocktail has unpleasantly hit Dolly.
“But in the architecture of the knowledge of Anna Arkadievny are amazing,” Tuskiewicz said.
“How, I heard, yesterday Anna Arkadievna said: in the strobus and the plintus,” said Veslovsky. So do I say?
“There’s nothing surprising when you see and hear so much,” Anna said. You don’t even know what they make at home?
Darya Alexandrovna saw that Anna was unhappy with the tone of playfulness that was between her and Veslovsky, but herself accidentally fell into it.
Vronsky did not do the same as Levin.
He obviously did not attribute any importance to Veslovsky's bulldozer and, on the contrary, encouraged these jokes.
Well say, Veslovsky, what are the stones connected?
Of course a cement.
The brave!
What is Cement?
- So, like a blurry... no, a blurry, - exciting the general hobby, said Veslovsky.
The conversation between the lunchmen, except those immersed in the dark silence of the doctor, the architect and the manager, did not hesitate where they climbed, where they climbed and swallowed someone alive.
Once Daria Alexandrovna was charged with living and so burned that she even reddened, and then she already remembered if she was told something excessive and unpleasant.
Swiazhsky talked about Levin, telling his strange judgments that cars are only harmful in the Russian economy.
“I don’t like to know this Mr. Levin,” Wronsky said with a smile, “but he’s probably never seen the machines he condemns. And if you saw and experienced, then somehow, and not foreign, but somehow Russian.
What views can there be here?
- In general, the Turkish views, - turned to Anna, said Veslovsky with a smile.
“I can’t defend his judgments,” Daria Alexandrovna said, “but I can say that he is a very educated person, and if he was here, he would know you what to answer, but I don’t know.
“I love him very much, and we are great friends with him,” Sviazhsky said with a kind smile. But forgive, it is a little touch: by means of measures, he claims that both the earth and the world courts are not all needed, and they do not want to participate in anything.
“This is our Russian indifference,” Vronsky said, throwing water from the ice graphene into a thin glass on a foot, “not feeling the duties that impose on us our rights, and therefore deny these duties.
“I don’t know a man more strict in fulfilling his duties,” said Darya Alexandrovna, irritated by this tone of superiority of Vronsky.
- I, on the contrary, - continued Vronsky, obviously for some reason concerned with this live conversation, - I, on the contrary as you see me, am very grateful for the honor you have done to me, thanks to Nicholas Ivanych (he pointed to Sviazhsky), choosing me as an honorary world judge.
I think that for me the duty to go to the congress, to discuss the matter of a man about a horse is as important as everything I can do.
And I’ll be honored to count if I’m chosen by voice.
I can only pay for the benefits I use as a land owner.
Unfortunately, they do not understand the importance that large landowners should have in the state.
Darje Alexandrovne was strange to hear how he was calm in his right hand at his table.
She remembered how Levin, thinking the opposite, was equally determined in his judgments at the table.
But she loved Levin and therefore was on his side.
- So can we count on you, Count, for the next congress? He said Swiazhsky. But you have to go earlier, so that the eighth is already there.
Would you give me the honor to come to me?
“And I agree a little with your beau-brother,” Anna said. “But not like him,” she added with a smile. I am afraid that we have too many of these public duties in recent times.
As before there were so many officials that every business needed a official, so now all public actors.
Alexey is now here for six months, and he seems to be a member of five or six different public institutions – a guardian, a judge, a voice, a jury, a horse.
Du train que cela va all the time will go on it.
And I am afraid that with so many of these things it is just a form.
How many places are you a member, Nikolai Ivanić? She turned to Swish. It seems more than twenty.
Anna spoke funny, but in the tone she felt angry.
Darya Alexandrovna, carefully observing Anna and Vronsky, immediately noticed that.
She also noticed that the face of Vronsky at this conversation immediately took a serious and persistent expression.
Noting this and the fact that the princess Barbara immediately, in order to change the conversation, promptly spoke about the Petersburg acquaintances, and, remembering what Vronsky once said in the garden about her activity, Dolly realized that with this question of public activity was linked some intimate dispute between Anna and Vronsky.
Lunch, wine, serving—all of this was very good, but all of this was what Daria Alexandrovna saw at the so-called meals and balls, and with the same character of impersonality and tension; and therefore, in the ordinary day and in a small circle, all this made an unpleasant impression on her.
After lunch sit on the terrace.
He started playing lawn tennis.
Players, divided into two parties, settled on a carefully aligned and killed croquet ground, on both sides of a stretched grid with golden columns.
Daria Alexandrovna tried to play, but for a long time she couldn't understand the game, and when she understood, she was so tired that she sat with the princess Barbara and only looked at the players.
Her partner Tushkiewicz also retired; but the rest continued the game for a long time.
Swiazhsky and Vronsky both played very well and seriously.
They closely followed the ball thrown to them, not rushing and not swallowing, gently fled to him, waiting for a jump and, gently and correctly giving the ball with a rocket, swallowing behind the grid.
He played worse than others.
He was too hot, but he was enthusiastic about the players.
His laughter and screams did not hesitate.
He scored, like other men, with the permission of the ladies, the surtuck, and the great beautiful figure of him in the white gloves of the shirt, with a ruby sweetened face and the swallowing movements so and stumbled in memory.
When Daria Alexandrovna was sleeping that night, as soon as she closed her eyes, she saw Vasenko Veslovsky stumbling over the crocodile.
During the game, Darje Alexandrovne was unpleasant.
She didn’t like the continued playful relationship between Vasenka Veslovsky and Anna and the general unnaturality of the adults when they alone, without children, play a child’s game.
But in order not to annoy others and somehow spend time, she, resting, again joined the game and pretended that she was fun.
All that day it seemed to her that she was playing in the theater with the best of her, actors and that her bad play ruined everything.
She came with the intention of staying for two days if she lived.
But in the evening, during the game, she decided she would go tomorrow.
Those painful maternal concerns, which she so hated the dear, now, after the day spent without them, were presented to her in another light and pulled her to her.
When after a evening tea and a night walk in the boat, Daria Alexandrovna entered her room alone, took her clothes and sat to clean her liquid hair for the night, she felt a great relief.
She was unpleasant to think that Anna would come to her now.
She wanted to be alone with her thoughts.
Dolly had already wanted to lie when Anna in a night dress came to her.
During the day, Anna several times began to talk about suspicious affairs, and every time she said a few words, she stopped. After all, we will all negotiate alone.
I have to tell you so much,” she said.
Now they were alone, and Anna didn’t know what to say about.
She sat next to the window, looking at Dolly and recalling in her memory all the things that seemed untouchable, the reserves of troubled conversations, and found nothing.
She seemed at that moment that everything was already said.
What about Kitty? She said, hardly breathing and guilty looking at Dolly. Tell me the truth, Dolly, will she not be angry on me?
Are you angry?
“No,” she smiled, said Daria Alexandrovna.
He hates and negates.
But you know, it is not forgiven.
— Yes, yes — turned and looked in the open window, Anna said. But I was not guilty. Who is guilty?
What is the fault?
Could it be different?
What do you think?
Could you not be Steve’s wife?
Right, I don’t know.
But this is what you tell me...
Yes, but we didn’t end about Kitty.
She is happy?
He is a wonderful man, they say.
It is little to say that it is beautiful. I don’t know a man better.
Oh, how happy I am!
I am very happy!
Little to say that a beautiful man, she repeated.
Dolly smiled.
But tell me about yourself.
I have a long conversation with you.
And we talked to... – Dolly didn’t know how to call him.
She was unpleasant to call him Count and Alexey Kirillich.
“With Alexey,” Anna said, “I know what you’ve said.
But I wanted to ask you directly, what do you think about me, about my life?
How to say so suddenly?
I right, I don’t know.
No, you tell me anyway...
You see my life.
But you don't forget that you see us in the summer when you came, and we're not alone.
But we came early in the spring, lived completely alone and will live alone, and better than that I don’t want anything.
But imagine that I live alone without him, alone, and that will be... I see that it will often be repeated, that he will be out of the house for half a time,” she said, standing up and sitting closer to Dolly. “Naturally,” she crossed Dolly, who wanted to object, “Naturally, I will not force him.
I do not hold.
His horses go, his horses go, his horses go.
very pleased.
But you think of me, imagine my position.
So what to say about it! She smiled. What did he talk to you about?
- He talked about what I myself want to talk about, and it's easy for me to be his lawyer: about whether there's no possibility and whether it's not possible... - Darya Alexandrovna stumbled, - to correct, improve your position... You know how I look...
If possible, you have to get married.
That is divorce? And Anna said. You know, the only woman who came to me in St. Petersburg was Betty Tverskaya?
Do you know her?
Au fond c'est la femme la plus depravee qui existe.
She was in connection with Tuskiewicz, cheating her husband in the worst way.
And she told me that she doesn’t want to know me until my position is wrong.
Don’t think I can compare...
I know you, my soul.
But I unwillingly remembered...
So what did he tell you? She repeated.
He said he suffered for you and for himself.
Maybe you’ll say that it’s egoism, but that’s a legitimate and noble egoism!
He wants, first of all, to legalize his daughter and be your husband, to have the right to you.
Which wife, a slave, can be as a slave as I am in my position? She smashed darkly.
The main thing he wants is he wants you not to suffer.
This is impossible!
well?
Well, and the most legal thing, he wants your children to have a name.
What kind of children? - Without looking at Dolly and shaking, Anna said.
Annie and the future.
He may be calm, I won’t have any more children.
How can you say that will not happen?
It won’t happen because I don’t want it.
And despite all her excitement, Anna smiled, noticing the naive expression of curiosity, surprise and horror on Dolly’s face.
The doctor told me after my illness. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The
It cannot be! I opened my eyes, Dolly said.
For her it was one of those discoveries, outcomes and conclusions that are so huge that at the first minute she only feels that it is impossible to understand everything, but that there is a lot to think about it.
This discovery, which suddenly explained to her all those incomprehensible before her families, in which there were only one and two children, caused in her so many thoughts, considerations and contradictory feelings that she couldn’t say anything and only with widely open eyes surprisedly looked at Anna.
That was the same thing she dreamed of today’s expensive, but now, having realized that it was possible, she was scared.
She felt it was a too simple solution to a too difficult question.
“N’est ce pas immoral,” she just said, silent.
Think, I have a choice of two: either to be pregnant, that is, sick, or to be a friend, a companion of my husband, the same as my husband.
— Well, yes, — said Daria Alexandrovna, listening to the same arguments she brought to herself, and not finding in them more convincing than before.
“For you, for others,” Anna said, as if she was guessing her thoughts, “there may still be a doubt; but for me...
You understand, I am not a wife; he loves me as long as he loves.
How do I support his love?
This is this?
She stretched her white hands before her stomach.
With an unusual speed, as it happens in minutes of excitement, thoughts and memories crowded in the head of Daria Alexandrovna.
“I, she thought, did not attract Steve; he went away from me to another, and the first one for which he changed me did not hold him, because she was always beautiful and joyful.
He left there and took another.
And will Anna thus attract and hold the Count of Vronsky?
If he will look for it, he will find the toilets and patterns even more attractive and fun.
And no matter how white, no matter how beautiful her naked hands, no matter how beautiful her whole house, her heated face because of these black hair, he will find even better as he is looking for and find my disgusting, sad and sweet husband.”
Dolly didn’t answer anything and just breathed.
Anna noticed that breath, which showed disagreement, and continued.
In the stock she had other arguments, already so strong that nothing could be answered to them.
Do you say that’s not good?
But I have to judge, she continued. You forget my position.
How can I wish children?
I am not talking about suffering, I am not afraid of it.
Think who will be my children?
Unfortunate children who will be wearing a foreign name.
At their own birth they will be put into the need to be ashamed by the mother, the father, their birth.
That is why divorce is needed.
Anna did not listen to her.
She wanted to agree with the same arguments she convinced herself so many times.
Why do I have reason, if I do not use it to not produce unfortunate people?
She looked at Dolly, but without waiting for the answer, she continued:
“I would always feel guilty before these unhappy children,” she said. If they are not unhappy, they are not unhappy at least, and if they are unhappy, I am alone guilty of it.
These were the same arguments that Darya Alexandrovna had brought to herself; but now she was listening and not understanding them.
“How to be guilty before non-existing beings?” She thought.
And suddenly she came to the question: could it be better for her lover, Grisha, if he never existed?
And it seemed so wild to her, so strange that she swallowed her head to dissolve that confusion of crazy thoughts.
“No, I don’t know, it’s not good,” she just said with the expression of stupidity on her face.
You don’t forget what you are and what I am.
And moreover, — added Anna, despite the wealth of her arguments and the poverty of Dolly arguments, as if it was still aware that it wasn’t good — you don’t forget the most important thing that I’m not in the situation like you now.
For you the question is: do you want to have no more children, but for me: do I want to have them?
And that is a big difference.
You understand that I can’t wish that in my position.
Daria Alexandrovna did not object.
She suddenly felt that she was so far away from Anna that there were issues between them that they would never meet and that they would be better not to talk about.
“So more you have to arrange your position, if possible,” Dolly said.
“Yes, if possible,” Anna suddenly said with a completely different, quiet and sad voice.
Is divorce impossible?
I was told that your husband agreed.
The Dolly! I don’t want to talk about it.
“Well, we’re not going,” said Darya Alexandrovna, noticing the expression of suffering on Anna’s face. I just see that you look too dark.
Not a few.
I am very happy and happy.
You see, I do the passions.
The Veslovsky...
“Yes, if I say the truth, I didn’t like the tone of Veslovsky,” Daria Alexandrovna said, wanting to change the conversation.
Oh no much!
It will shake Alexey and nothing more; but he is a boy and all in my hands; you understand, I manage them as I want.
It’s like your grace.
The Dolly! - suddenly she changed her speech, - you say I look darkly. You can’t understand.
It is too horrible.
I try not to look at it at all.
But I think it should.
We have to do everything possible.
But what can be?
Nothing.
You say to get married to Alexey and that I don’t think about it.
I don’t think about it!! She repeated, and the paint appeared on her face.
She stood up, stretched her chest, hardly breathed, and began to walk her light walk back and forward through the room, sometimes stopping. I don’t think?
There is no day or hour when I don’t think or blame myself for what I think... because my thoughts about it can be foolish.
It was stupid, she repeated. When I think about it, I can’t sleep without morphine.
But well.
Let us speak calmly.
They say to me divorce.
First, he will not give me it.
It is now under the influence of Count Lydia Ivanovna.
Darya Alexandrovna, straight out on the chair, with a suffering-sensitive face watched, turning her head, behind the walking Anna.
“I have to try,” she said quietly.
Let’s put, try it.
What does that mean? She said, obviously, a thought, a thousand times overthinked and suddenly learned. That means that I, who hate him, but still acknowledges myself guilty before him, and I consider him generous, must humble myself to write to him.
Well, let’s put, I’m going to do it, I’m going to do it.
Or I will get an offensive answer, or consent.
Well, I got the consent...—Anna at that time was at the remote end of the room and stopped there, doing something with the window guard.
I’m going to get the consent, and you’re... son?
They will not give it to me.
For he will grow up, neglecting me, with the father I have abandoned.
You understand that I love — it seems the same, but both are more than myself, two beings — Sereza and Alexey.
She went out in the middle of the room and stopped in front of Dolly, pressing her hands on her chest.
In the white pen, the figure seemed large and wide.
She swallowed her head and suddenly looked with glowing wet eyes to the small, weak and sad one in her wiped coffle and night cloth, all drowned by Dolly's anger.
Only these two beings I love, and one excludes the other.
I can’t connect them, and that’s one thing I need.
And if not, it doesn’t matter. Everything is anyway.
And somehow it ends, and that’s why I can’t, I don’t like to talk about it.
So do not blame me, do not judge me in anything.
You can’t understand with your purity all that I suffer.
She came, sat next to Dolly, and, with a guilty expression looking into her face, took her for her hand.
What do you think?
What do you think about me?
Don’t neglect me.
I am not neglected.
I am just unhappy.
If someone is unhappy, that’s me, she said, and, turning away from her, she was crying.
Leaving alone, Dolly prayed to God and slept in bed.
She was angry to Anna when she talked to her; but now she couldn’t make herself think about her.
Remembrances of the house and the children with a special, new beauty for her, in some new brightness arose in her imagination.
This world seemed so expensive and nice to her now that she didn’t want to spend another day out of it and decided that tomorrow she’d definitely go.
Meanwhile, Anna, returning to her office, took the rubber and accumulated in it a few drops of medicine, in which an important part was morphine, and, drinking and sitting for a while stable, went to the bedroom with a calm and joyful spirit.
When she went into the bedroom, Vronsky looked at her carefully.
He was looking for the traces of the conversation that, he knew, she, so long staying in Dolly's room, had to have with her.
But in her expression, excitated and something hiding, he found nothing but what was usual to him but still captured by her beauty, her consciousness, and her desire to act on him.
He didn’t want to ask her what they were saying, but he hoped that she would tell her something.
But she said only:
I'm glad you liked Dolly.
isn’t it true?
I know her for a long time.
It seems very good, but exessivement terre-a-terre.
However, I was very happy with her.
He took the hand of Anna and looked at her questionfully in the eyes.
She, otherwise, understood that view. I smiled to him.
On the other morning, despite the harassment of the masters, Daria Alexandrovna gathered to drive.
The Shepherd of Levin, in his non-new captain and half-hearted hat, on various horses, in a wheel with paid wings, darkly and determinedly entered the covered, sand-shaped entrance.
Goodbye to the princess Barbara, with the men was unpleasant to Darje Alexandrovne.
After the day, both she and her owners clearly felt that they were not fit to each other and that it was better for them not to fit.
One Anna was sad.
She knew that now, with Dolly’s departure, no one will worry in her soul the feelings that raised up in her during that date.
It was painful for her to worry about these feelings, but she still knew that it was the best part of her soul and that that part of her soul quickly grew up in the life she lived.
After leaving the field, Daria Alexandrovna experienced a pleasant feeling of relief, and she wanted to ask people how they liked Vronsky, how suddenly the dog Philip himself spoke:
Wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealthy wealth.
The pets were cleaned.
What are three measures? Just eat.
Now the sheep has forty-five copies.
We come to heaven how much they eat, how much they give.
– Cheap barin – confirmed the counterman.
Do you like their horses? I asked Dolly.
The horse is one word.
The food is good.
And so I’m tired something seemed, Darya Alexandrovna, I don’t know how you,” he said, turning to her his beautiful and good face.
Yes, and me too.
Will we come in the evening?
I have to come.
Returning home and finding all of them quite pleasant and gentle, Daria Alexandrovna with great enthusiasm told about her trip, about how well she was accepted, about the luxury and good taste of the life of Vronsky, about their pleasures and didn’t give anyone a word to say against them.
“It is necessary to know Anna and Vronsky – I’ve known him more now – to understand how cute and touching they are – now she spoke completely honestly, forgetting the uncertain feeling of dissatisfaction and discomfort that she experienced there.
Vronsky and Anna, all in the same conditions, yet without taking any measures for divorce, lived the whole summer and part of the autumn in the village.
It was decided between them that they would not go anywhere; but both felt as far as they lived alone, especially in the autumn and without guests, that they would not endure this life and that they had to change it.
Life seemed to be what you could not desire better: there was full enough, there was health, there was a child, and both had a job.
Anna without guests did the same thing with herself and did a lot of reading — and novels and serious books that were in fashion.
She wrote out all the books, which with praise was mentioned in foreign newspapers and magazines received by her, and with that attention to the reader, which is only in isolation, she read them.
In addition, all the subjects that Vronsky dealt with, she studied on books and special magazines, so he often addressed directly to her with agronomical, architectural, even sometimes horseback and sports issues.
He was surprised by her knowledge and memory, and first, doubtful, he wanted confirmation; and she found in the books what he asked, and showed him.
The hospital also occupied it.
She didn’t just help, but she arranged and invented a lot by herself.
But her main concern was she herself—she herself, how much she goes to Vronsky, how much she can replace everything he left for him.
Wronsky appreciated this, which became the only purpose of her life, the desire not only to like, but to serve him, but at the same time and attracted the love networks she tried to confuse him.
The more time passed, the more he saw himself overwhelmed by these networks, the more he wanted not to get out of them, but to try whether they do not interfere with his freedom.
If it were not all the increasing desire to be free, not to have a scene every time he had to go to the city for a congress, to run, Vronsky would be quite satisfied with his life.
The role he chose, the role of the rich landowner, from which the core of the Russian aristocracy should be composed, not only came to his taste, but now, after he lived so six years, gave him the increasing pleasure.
And his affairs increasingly engaged and attracted him, went great.
Despite the enormous money he was cost by the hospital, the cars, the cows drawn out of Switzerland, and much more, he was confident that he didn’t scare, but increased his state.
Where the business went to revenue, for sale of forests, bread, shirt, land donation, Vronsky was strong as a creme, and was able to hold the price.
In the affairs of the large economy and in this and in other properties, he held the simplest, unrisked approaches and was at the highest level careful and accountable to the small business.
Despite all the wisdom and skill of the German, who brought him into the purchase and made every calculation so that it needed much more at first, but, considering, it was possible to do the same and cheaper and immediately get the benefit, Vronsky did not surrender to him.
He listened to the governor, questioned and agreed with him only when the written or arranged was the newest, in Russia still unknown, capable of surprising.
In addition, he decided to make a big expenditure only when there were extra money, and by doing this expenditure, he came to all the details and insisted on having the best for his money.
So, as he did, it was clear that he did not annoy, but increased his state.
In October, there were noble elections in the Kashin province, where there were the property of Vronsky, Sviazhsky, Koznyshev, Oblonsky and a small part of Levin.
These elections, under many circumstances and the persons participating in them, attended public attention.
They talked a lot about them and prepared for them.
Moscow, St. Petersburg and foreign citizens, who have never been in the elections, took up for these elections.
Vronsky has long promised Swiazhsky to go on them.
Before the elections, Sviažsky, who frequently visited Vzдвиженskoje, walked for Vronsky.
On the eve of that day, there was almost a dispute between Vronsky and Anna about this alleged trip.
It was the hardest, boring time in the village in the autumn, and therefore Vronsky, preparing for the struggle, with a strict and cold expression, as he never talked to Anna before, announced her his departure.
But, to his surprise, Anna accepted this news very calmly and asked only when he would come back.
He looked at her carefully, without understanding that calmness.
She smiled at his eyes.
He knew that ability to leave her and knew that it was only when she decided something about herself without telling him about her plans.
He was afraid of this; but he so wanted to escape the scene that he made a look and partially honestly believed in what he wanted to believe, its wisdom.
I hope you won’t miss it?
“I hope,” said Anna. I got a box of books from Goethe.
No, I won’t miss it.
"She wants to take that tone, and the better," he thought, "and then all the same."
And without calling her for an honest explanation, he went to the election.
It was the first time since the beginning of their relationship that he separated with her, without explaining to the end.
On the one hand, it worried him, on the other hand, he found it better.
“First there will be, as now, something unclear, hidden, and then it will get used to.
In any case, I can give her everything, but not my male independence,” he thought.
In September, Levin moved to Moscow for the birth of Kiti.
He has already lived without work for a whole month in Moscow, when Sergey Ivanovich, who had a name in the Kashin province and took a large part in the question of the upcoming elections, gathered to go for elections.
He called with himself and his brother, who had a ball on the Seleznevsky departure.
In addition, Levin had in Kashin the extremely necessary for his sister, who lived abroad, a matter of guardianship and the receipt of money for the purchase.
Levin was still unresolved, but Kitty, seeing that he was missing in Moscow, and advising him to go, besides him, ordered him a noble mount, which was worth eighty rubles.
And these eighty rubles, paid for the mundier, were the main reason that encouraged Levin to drive.
He went to Kashmir.
Levin was in Kashina for the sixth day, visiting every day a meeting and a bubble on the matter of the sister, which was not all right.
The leaders were all busy with the elections, and it was impossible to the simplest thing that depended on the guard.
The other thing — getting money — exactly the same was faced with obstacles.
After long concerns about the abolition of the ban, the money was ready to be issued; but the notary, the most serving person, could not be issued, because the signature of the chairman was needed, and the chairman, without giving up, was on the session.
All these troubles, walking from place to place, conversations with very good, good people, who understand the unpleasant situation of the asker, but are unable to help him, all these tensions, which don’t give any results, have produced a painful feeling in Levine, like the annoying impotence you experience in a dream when you want to use physical force.
He experienced this often, speaking with his most kind trusted.
This trusted man seemed to have done everything he could and stressed all his mental forces to get Levin out of trouble.
"This is what you try," he said many times, "go somewhere and somewhere," and the trusted made a whole plan, how to overcome the beginning of the year, which hindered everything.
But immediately he added, “It will still be delayed; but try it.”
And Levin tried, walked, walked.
They were all good and kind, but it turned out that the lost grew up again at the end and again blocked the way.
In particular, it was offensive that Levin could not understand with whom he is struggling, to whom the benefit is that his case does not end.
It seemed that no one knew it; nor the trusted knew it.
If Levin could understand how he understood why it was not possible to approach the cash on the railway otherwise than becoming a line, it would not be offensive and annoying to him; but in the obstacles he encountered in the case, no one could explain to him why they exist.
But much has changed since his marriage; he was patient and if he didn’t understand why all this was so arranged, he said to himself that, without knowing everything, he couldn’t judge that probably was so convenient, and tried not to get angry.
Now, present at the elections and participating in them, he also tried not to condemn, not to dispute, but to understand as much as possible the matter that with such seriousness and enthusiasm was dealt with by the respected honest and good people.
Since he was married, Levin has opened so many new, serious sides, first, in the easy-thinking attitude to them, which seemed low, that in the matter of the election he supposed and sought serious significance.
Sergey Ivanovich explained to him the meaning and importance of the assumption in the elections.
The governor, in whose hands, according to the law, there were so many important public affairs—and the guardians (the ones of which Levin suffered now), and the noble huge amounts, and the gymnasies female, male and military, and the people's education according to the new status, n, finally, the land—the governor Snetkov was a man of the old noble warehouse, who lived a huge state, a good man, honest in his kind, but not fully understanding the needs of the new time.
He always held the side of nobleship in all things, he directly opposed the spread of the people's formation and gave the land, which must have such a great significance, a conspiracy character.
It was necessary to place a fresh, modern, business man, a completely new man, and to arrange the matter in such a way as to extract from all that is given to nobleship, not as nobleship, but as an element of the earth, the benefits of self-government that could only be extracted.
In the rich Kashin Governorate, which is always the highest in everything in front of others, we have now acquired such strengths that the case here as follows could serve as an example for other Governorates, for all of Russia.
And that’s why everything was of great importance.
The leader was intended to place either Sviazhsky, or, even better, Nevedovsky, a former professor, a wonderfully intelligent person and a great friend of Sergey Ivanovich.
The assembly was opened by the governor, who told the nobles that they should choose officials not by hypocrisy, but by merits and for the good of the homeland, and that he hopes that the noble nobleship of Kashin, as in the previous elections, will fulfill his duty and justify the high trust of the monarch.
After the speech ended, the governor went out of the hall, and the nobles loud and vibrant, some even enthusiastic, followed him and surrounded him while he was wearing a shrub and friendly talking to the governor.
Levin, wishing to look into everything and not miss anything, stood right in the crowd and heard the governor said, "Please tell Mary Ivanovna that her wife is very regretted that she goes to shelter."
And after that, the nobles delighted, and all went to the congregation.
In the cathedral, Levin, along with others, lifting the hand and repeating the words of the prophet, swore with the most terrible swears to fulfill all that the governor had hoped for.
The church service has always had an influence on Levin, and when he spoke the words "the whole cross" and looked at the crowd of these young and old people repeating the same, he felt troubled.
On the second and third day were the cases of the amounts of the noble and the women's gymnasium, which had no importance, as Sergey Ivanovich explained, and Levin, busy with his course of affairs, did not follow them.
On the fourth day behind the Governor's table went a cover of the Governor's amounts. This was the first time a new party met with the old party.
The commission, which was commissioned to trust the amounts, to the assembly that the amounts were all in whole.
The governor stood up, thanks to nobleship for trust, and followed.
The courtyard greeted him and regretted his hand.
But at that time, one noble of the party Sergey Ivanovich said that he heard that the commission did not trust the amount, considering the trust an insult to the Governor.
One of the members of the committee has accurately confirmed this.
Then one small, very young, but very poisoned gentleman began to say that the Governor would probably be pleasant to report in amounts and that the excessive delicacy of the committee members deprives him of this moral satisfaction.
Then the members of the commission rejected their statement, and Sergey Ivanovich began to logically prove that it is necessary to either admit that the amounts are entrusted to them or not entrusted, and detailed this dilemma.
Sergey Ivanovich opposed the speech of the opposite party.
Then spoke Swiazhsky and again the poisoning gentleman.
The trials lasted a long time and did not end.
Levin was surprised that this was discussed so long, especially because when he asked Sergey Ivanovich if he supposed that the amounts were lost, Sergey Ivanovich replied:
He is an honest man. But this ancient acceptance of the father's family management by noble affairs had to be overwhelmed.
The fifth day was the election of the leaders.
This day was quite burstful in some departments. In the Seleznevsk district, Swiazhsky was elected without voting unanimously, and he had lunch on that day.
On the sixth day the Governorate elections were appointed.
The rooms big and small were full of nobles in different moundries.
Many came only to that day.
Long unseen acquaintances, who from Crimea, who from St. Petersburg, who from abroad, met in the halls.
At the Governor's table, under the portrait of the governor, went a prony.
In the courts, both in the big and in the small hall, the camps were gathered, and, by the hostility and unfaithfulness of the views, by the silent speech when the strangers approached, by the fact that some, screaming, went even into the remote corridor, it was clear that each side had secrets from the other.
In the outer appearance, the nobles were sharply divided into two varieties: the old and the new.
The old were mostly either in the noble old strangled mundiers, with spaghetti and hates, or in their special, fleet, cavalry, infantry, served mundiers.
The mountains of the old nobles were shattered in the ancient way, with bulbs on their shoulders; they were obviously small, short in the bands and narrow, as if their carriers had grown up from them.
The young men were in noble stretched monsters with low legs and widespread on their shoulders, with white jersey, or in monsters with black bridges and laws, the shield of the Ministry of Justice.
The young men belonged to the gardens, somewhere decorating the crowd.
The division between the young and the old did not match the division of the parties.
Some of the young people, according to Levin's observations, belonged to the old party, and some, on the contrary, the oldest nobles cried with Swiazhsky and were obviously hot supporters of the new party.
Levin stood in a small room where they smoked and eaten, under their groups, listening to what they were saying, and foolishly stressing their mental forces to understand what they were saying.
Sergey Ivanovich was the center around which others grouped.
He was now listening to Swiazhsky and Chlustov, the leader of another council belonging to their party.
Chlustov did not agree to go with his departure to ask Snetkov to ballot, and Sviazhsky agreed to do so, and Sergey Ivanovich approved this plan.
Levin didn’t understand why it was the enemy party to ask to vote for the leader they wanted to vote for.
Stephan Arkadić, who was just eating and drinking, whispering his mouths with a shell of shell, approached them in his camerger mount.
“We take a position,” he said, sparking both backenbards, “Sergei Ivanić!
And, listening to the conversation, he confirmed the opinion of Swiazhsky.
“It’s enough for one departure, and Swiazhsky is already, obviously, an opposition,” he said to everyone, except Levin, understandable words.
- What, Kosti, and you got in, it seems to taste? And he turned to Levin, and took him under his hand.
Levin would be happy to get into taste, but he couldn't understand what it was, and, leaving a few steps away from the speakers, expressed to Stepan Arkadić his misunderstanding, why it was to ask the Governor.
O sancta simplicitas! - said Stephan Arkadić and briefly and clearly explained to Levin what it was about.
If, as in the past elections, all voters were asking for the Governor, then he would be chosen by all the white.
This was not necessary.
Now eight parties agree to ask; if two refuse to ask, Snetkov may refuse to vote. And then the old party can choose another of its own, as the whole calculation will be lost.
But if only one district of Swiazhsky will not ask, Snetkov will be balloted.
He will even be elected and deliberately transferred to him, so that the opponent party will get out of the account, and when the candidate from us is exhibited, they will transfer him.
Levin understood, but not completely, and wanted to ask a few more questions, when suddenly everyone spoke, cried and moved to the big hall. What is it? What? Who to? The confidence? to whom? What? Are they denied? Not the trust. Flores are not allowed. What is under the court? This will not allow anyone. It is underground. The law! He heard Levin from different sides, and together with all who were hurrying somewhere and afraid to miss something, he went to the big hall and, closed by the nobles, approached the Governor's table, which was somewhat hotly disputed by the Governor's leader, Swiazhsky and other conovads.
Levin stood far away.
Heavily, with a cry breathing under him, one noble man and the other, crying with thick patches, prevented him from hearing clearly.
From a distance he only heard the soft voice of the leader, then the narrow voice of the poison noble, and then the voice of Swiazhsky.
They discussed how much he could understand, the meaning of the article of the law and the meaning of the words: the one who was under investigation.
Tolpa split up to give the way to Sergey Ivanovich, who approached the table.
Sergey Ivanovich, waiting for the end of the speech of the poison noble, said that he thought it would be best to deal with the article of the law, and asked the secretary to find the article.
In the article it was said that in case of disagreement it should be voted.
Sergey Ivanovich read the article and began to explain its meaning, but here one high, thick, coated, with colored ears, in a narrow mount with his back neck with a gateway, the locker crossed him.
He approached the table and, hit him with a finger, screamed loudly:
to ballot!
to the balls!
Nothing to talk!
to the balls!
Here suddenly a few voices spoke, and the high noble with his finger, more and more angry, cried more and more loud. But I couldn’t understand what he said.
He said the same thing that Sergey Ivanovich proposed; but, obviously, he hated him and his whole party, and this feeling of hatred the whole party and caused resistance to the same, though more decent anger on the other hand.
The screams rose, and for a minute everything was mixed, so the Governor had to ask for order.
To ballot, to ballot!
Whoever is noble, he understands.
We are flowing blood...
The trust of the monarch.
Not counting the leader, he is not a commander.
Not in that matter...
Let the ball!
The jealousy! There were angry and unrighteous screams from all sides.
The eyes and faces were even more angry and untouchable speech.
They expressed unreasonable hatred.
Levin did not understand what it was about, and was surprised by the passion with which the question was whether to ballot or not to ballot the opinion of Flerov.
He forgot, as Sergei Ivanovich later explained to him, that silogism that for the general good it was necessary to overthrow the governor; for the overthrow of the leader it was necessary the majority of the balls; for the majority of the balls it was necessary to give Flerov the right of vote; for the recognition of Flerov it was necessary to explain how to understand the article of the law.
“A single voice can solve all the matter, and you must be serious and consistent if you want to serve the public affairs,” Sergey Ivanovich concluded.
But Levin forgot it, and it was hard for him to see these respected, good people in such unpleasant, evil excitement.
In order to get rid of this severe feeling, he, not waiting for the end of the prey, went to the hall where there was no one except the lakes near the buffet.
When he saw the blurred lakes over the dish of the dish and the layout of the plates and rubber, when he saw their quiet, vibrant faces, Levin experienced an unexpected feeling of relief, just from the fragile room he went out to the clean air.
He began to walk back and forward, with pleasure looking at the lakes.
He liked it very much as one lake with seven backenbards, showing negligence to the other, the young people who stood over him, taught them how to make a handheld.
Levin was just about to enter a conversation with the old Lakey, as the secretary of the noble guard, the old man, who had the specialty of knowing all nobles of the province by name and honor, dismissed him.
“Sorry, Konstantin Dmitrych,” he told him, “the brother is looking for you.
The opinion is balloted.
Levin entered the hall, received a white ball and followed his brother Sergey Ivanovich to the table, who stood with a significant and ironic face, gathering the bulk of the beard and smelling it, Swiazhsky.
Sergey Ivanovich put his hand in the box, put his ball somewhere and, given the place to Levin, stopped immediately.
Levin approached, but, completely forgotten what it was about, and disappointed, addressed Sergey Ivanovich with the question: "Where do you go?"
He asked quietly, while close speaking, so he hoped that his question would not be heard.
But the speakers remained silent, and the unpleasant question was heard.
Sergey Ivanovich was overwhelmed.
“It’s a matter of everyone’s belief,” he said strictly.
Some smiled.
Levin turned red, quickly put his hand under the dress and placed it right, as the ball was in his right hand.
When he put it, he remembered. He had to pull the left hand, and pulled it, but it was too late, and, even more confused, he quickly went into the back rows.
A hundred and twenty-six voters.
Nine hundred eight unselected! sounded the unpronouncing letter r the voice of the secretary.
Then a laughter was heard: a puppy and two nuts were found in the box.
The Dvoryanin was allowed, and the new party won.
But the old party did not consider itself a defeat.
Levin heard that Snetkov was asked to ballot, and saw that a crowd of nobles surrounded the Governor, who said something.
Levin came closer.
Answering to the nobles, Snetkov talked about the trust of the nobleship, about the love to him which he is not worthy, for all his merit lies in the devotion to the nobleship, to which he dedicated twelve years of service.
He repeated several times, “He served as much strength, faith and truth, appreciation and gratitude,” and suddenly stopped his tears and went out of the hall.
Whether these tears came from the consciousness of injustice to him, from love to nobleship or from the tension of the position in which he was, feeling surrounded by enemies, but the excitement was, the majority of nobles were treated, and Levin felt gentle to Snetkov.
In the doors the Governor met with Levin.
“Winowat, sorry, please,” he said to a stranger, but when he knew Levin, he smiled.
Lewin seemed he wanted to say something, but he couldn’t get out of anxiety.
The expression of his face and the whole figure in the mount, crosses and white with holes of pants, as he walked quickly, reminded Levin of the grassy beast, who sees that his job is bad.
This expression in the face of the leader was touching Levin, because yesterday only he was at his house in the matter of custody and saw him in all the greatness of a good and family man.
A large house with a old family furniture; non-growing, dirty, but respectful old lakes, obviously from the former fortress, not changing the master; a thick, gentle wife in a cap with circles and a Turkish joke, licking a nice grandson, the daughter of a daughter; a young son, a sixth-class high school student, who came from high school and, healed with his father, kissed his big hand; impressive loving speeches and gestures of the master — all this yesterday raised in Levine unwilling respect and sympathy.
Levin was touched and sad now that old man, and he wanted to tell him something pleasant.
“It happened, you are our leader again,” he said.
“It’s unlikely,” he looked scaredly, said the leader. I am tired, old.
There is more decent and younger than me, let them serve.
And the leader escaped to the side door.
It was the most festive minute.
Then we had to begin the elections.
The coins of the one and the other party on their fingers counted white and black.
The prey of Flerov gave the new party not only one ball of Flerov, but also a win of time, so they could be brought three nobles, the old party's caves lacking the opportunity to participate in the elections.
The two nobles, who had a weakness to blame, drank Snetkov's clergy drunk, and the third carried out a mustard clothes.
After learning about this, the new party managed to send the exhortator to obmunt the noble and to bring one of the two injured to the gathering.
- One brought, with water flowed, - spoke the locker who walked after him, and came to Swiazhsky. Nothing, it goes well.
He is not very drunk, he will not fall. - He lifted his head, said Swiazhsky.
No the young.
Just not to fall here...
I told the butcher not to give under any kind.
The narrow room where they smoked and eaten was full of nobles.
The tension increased, and there was noticeable anxiety on all the faces.
Especially, the conovids were very concerned, knowing all the details and the count of all the balls.
They were the commanders of the coming battle.
The rest, like the regular before the battle, though prepared for the battle, but instead sought entertainment.
Some snacked, standing or sitting at the table; others walked, smoking papyruses, back and forward through a long room and talked with long unseen friends.
Levin didn’t want to eat, he didn’t smoke; he didn’t want to go with his own, i.e. with Sergey Ivanovich, Stepan Arkadić, Sviazhsky and others, because with them in a vibrant conversation, Vronsky stood in the Stalmeister monder.
Even yesterday, Levin saw him in the elections and walked carefully, not wanting to meet him.
He approached the window and sat, looking at the groups and listening to what was spoken around him.
He was sad especially because everything he saw was alive, worried and busy, and only he was alone with the old, toothless old man in the fleet mount, shamling lips, sitting around him, was uninterested and uninterested.
This is a shell!
I told him, no.
How well!
He was unable to gather in three years, — energetically spoke the slurry low-hearted carpenter with smooth hair, lying on the mounted gate of his mount, striking strongly with the cables of new, obviously for the choice of worn shoes.
And the keeper, throwing an unhappy look at Levin, turned sharply.
“Yes, it’s a wicked thing to say,” said a small housewife with a thin voice.
Following these, the whole crowd of keepers, surrounding the thick general, quickly approached Levin.
The locals, of course, were looking for places to negotiate so that they did not hear them.
How he can say that I ordered him to steal his pants!
He was drunk, I think.
I swallow him with his kingdom.
He can't speak, it's a snake!
So let me!
They are based on the article, — said in another group, — the wife should be recorded as a noble.
I’m in the article!
I speak by soul.
The noble nobles.
Have confidence.
– Your excellence, let’s go, fine champagne.
The other crowd followed something loudly crying noble: it was one of the three drunk.
“I always advised Mary Semenovne to give up, because she doesn’t find out,” a pleasant voice spoke in the colonel’s old general headquarters.
This was the same host that Levin met with Swiazhsky.
He immediately recognized him.
The roomman also looked at Levin, and they greeted.
Very pleasant.
How well! I remember very well.
Last year with Nikolai Ivanovich, the leader.
How is your farm? He asked Levin.
“Yes, at the same time, in loss, with a humble smile, but with the expression of calmness and belief that this is so and so necessary,” he replied, stopping down. How did you get to our province? He asked him. Are you here to participate in our coup d'etat? He said, firmly but badly speaking French words. All of Russia has gone away: both the cameregers and just the ministers. He pointed to the representative figure of Stephan Arkadić in white pants and the Chamber Monder who walked with the general.
“I have to admit to you that I’m very poorly understanding the importance of noble elections,” Levin said.
The officer looked at him.
What to understand here?
There is no meaning.
A falling institution that continues its movement only by the force of inertia.
See, the monsters, and these say to you, this is the gathering of the world judges, the unchanged members, and so on, and not the nobles.
So why do you ride? He asked Levin.
As usual, one.
The connection needs to be supported.
A moral duty in some way.
And then, if I say the truth, there is your interest.
Zit wants to be balloted into unnecessary members; they are wealthy people, and you need to spend it.
Why are these guys driving? He said, pointing to that poisoning gentleman who spoke at the Governor's table.
This is a new generation of nobleship.
A new one. But not nobleship.
We are landowners and we are landowners.
They are like nobles who put their hands on themselves.
You say it is a living institution.
A survivor is a survivor, and everything should be treated more respectfully.
Even the Nets...
We are good or not, we have grown a thousand years.
You know, you’ll have to if you have a garden in front of the house, plan, and you grow a hundred-year-old tree in this place... It’s both rough and old, and all of you for flower clumps don’t break the old man, and so clumps you plan to take advantage of the tree.
He will not grow up in a year,” he said carefully and immediately changed the conversation. How is your farm?
Well not good.
The percentage is 5.
Yes, but you don’t consider yourself.
Do you stand something too?
This is what I will say about myself.
Until I did, I received three thousand in service.
Now I work more than in service, and like you, I get five percent, and so give God.
and their tasks.
So why do you do that? The direct loss?
Here are you doing!
What will you tell?
It is a habit, and you know it is necessary.
More I’ll tell you, – clocking around the window and speaking, the keeper continued, – the son has no hunt to the farm.
Obviously a scientist will be. So someone will continue.
And you do everything. The garden is now planted.
“Yes, yes,” said Levin, “it’s quite fair.
I always feel that there is no real calculation in my business, but you do...
You feel a duty to the earth.
I’m going to tell you, I’m going to tell you, I’m going to tell you, I’m going to tell you. My neighbor was a buyer. We went to the farm, to the garden.
“No,” says Stepan Vasilić, “you’re all in good way, but the garden is thrown away.”
He is okay with me. “In my mind, I would break this lip.
You just need juice. After all, they have a thousand leaves, and each of the two good leaves will come out.
And today the lobe in the price, and the stripes of the lobe would be broken."
“And for this money he would buy a beast, or the land would be bought for a beast, and the men would be wasted, and with a smile, Levin, obviously repeatedly facing such calculations, concluded. He will make himself a state.
And you and I - only let God keep our own and leave the children.
You are married, did I hear? The locker said.
— Yes, — with proud pleasure answered Levin. “It’s something strange,” he continued. So we are countless and live, precisely we are placed, like the newspapers of the ancient, to burn a kind of fire.
The man smiled under the white lips.
“There are among us too, whether our friend Nikolai Ivanić or now the Count of Vronsky has settled, they want the industrial agronomic news; but this still, except capital to kill, does not lead to anything.
But why don’t we do as merchants?
Do we not break the garden? - Returning to his shocking thought, said Levin.
This is, as you said, the fire of the dish.
It is not a noble matter.
And our noble thing is done not here, in the elections, but there, in its corner.
It also has its own conscious instinct, which should or should not.
Here are the men too, I will look at them another time: as a good man, it is enough to hire the land as much as he can.
No matter what a bad land, it’s all bad.
Also without calculation. directly to loss.
“So are we,” said Levin. “It was very, very pleasant to meet,” he added, seeing Swiazhsky coming to him.
“And here we met for the first time after you,” said the servant, “and we talked.
Have you prohibited the new rules? He said with a smile.
Not without that.
The soul was removed.
Swiazhsky took Levin under his hand and went with him to his own.
We could not have passed Vronsky.
He stood with Stephan Arkadić and Sergey Ivanovich and looked straight to the approaching Levin.
very pleased.
It seems that I had a pleasure to meet... with the princess Scherbatskaya,” he said, giving the hand to Levin.
“Yes, I really remember our meeting,” said Levin, and immediately turned and talked to his brother.
Slightly smiling, Vronsky continued to talk to Sviazhsky, obviously, without any desire to enter into the conversation with Levin; but Levin, speaking to his brother, continued to look at Vronsky, thinking about what to talk to him to smooth his cruelty.
What is the matter now? He asked Levin, looking at Sviazhsky and Vronsky.
Behind the net.
Should he refuse or agree, Swiazhsky replied.
Does he agree or not?
“In that and that matter, that’s nothing,” Wronsky said.
If he refuses, who will be voting? He asked Levin, looking at Vronsky.
“Who wants,” Sviazhsky said.
You will? He asked Levin.
“But not me,” Sviazhsky said, shouting a scared look at the pound with Sergey Ivanovich, a poisoning gentleman.
So who is?
Unknown? - said Levin, feeling that he was confused.
But it was even worse.
Nevedovsky and Sviazhsky were two candidates.
“I’m in any case,” the poisoned gentleman replied.
It was Nevedovsky himself.
Swiazhsky met him with Levin.
What did he take you alive? - said Stepan Arkadić, humbling Vronsky. It’s like a jump.
Money can be.
“Yes, it takes for life,” Wronsky said. And once I have done it, I want to do it.
The fight! He said, swallowing and pressing his strong skulls.
What a Sweatshirt!
He has everything so clear.
— Oh yeah, — said Vronsky discretely.
There was a silence, during which Vronsky, as we have to look at something, looked at Levin, his legs, his mount, then his face, and, seeing the dark eyes, directed to himself, to say something, said:
Why are you a permanent village resident and not a world judge?
You are not in the world judge.
“Because I think the world court is a foolish institution,” Levin, who was constantly waiting for the occasion to talk to Vronsky, replied to his grief at the first meeting.
“I don’t believe that, on the contrary,” Wronsky said with a calm surprise.
“It’s a toy,” Levin beat him. We don’t need world judges.
I had no business in eight years. And what he had, it was decided to return.
The world judge from me in forty verses.
I have to do the case in two rubles, send a trusted, which is worth fifteen.
And he told him how the man stole the mole from the mole, and when the mole told him this, the man appealed in deceit.
It was all unfortunate and stupid, and Levin, while speaking, felt it himself.
- Oh, that's the original! - said Stephan Arkadić with his own almond smile. Let’s go, however; it seems to be balloting...
And they split.
“I don’t understand,” said Sergey Ivanovich, who noticed the unpleasant departure of his brother, “I don’t understand how it can be so deprived of any political tact.
This is what the Russians do not have.
The governor is our opponent, you are with him ami cochon and ask him to ballot.
I will not make myself a friend of him; he calls me for lunch; I will not go to him; but he is our, why do I make him an enemy?
Then you’re asking Nevedovsky if he’ll be balloting.
This is not done.
Oh, I don’t understand anything!
And all these are empty, Levin answered darkly.
You say that everything is empty, and if you take it, you will confuse it all.
Levin silenced, and they entered the big hall together.
The governor, despite the fact that he felt in the air prepared for him, and despite the fact that not everyone asked for him, still decided to ballot.
All in the hall was silent, the secretary openly announced that the rottmister of the Guard Mikhail Stepanovich Snetkov was balloted to the Governor's leaders.
The executive leaders entered the tables with balls, from their tables to the Governorate, and the elections began.
Stephan Arkadic screamed to Levin when he and his brother followed the leader to the table.
But Levin now forgot the calculation that was explained to him, and feared whether Stephan Arkadić would make a mistake, said "right."
Snowden was an enemy.
When he came to the box, he kept the ball in the right, but, thinking that it was wrong, before the box, he placed the ball in the left hand and, obviously, then placed it to the left.
The sign of the case standing at the box, by one movement of the lock who knew who would put where, was unfavourable.
He had nothing to do to exercise his intuitivity.
Everyone was silent and he heard the balls.
Then a single vote proclaimed the number of electoral and unelected.
The chairman was elected by a large majority.
Everything was silent and quickly jumped to the door.
Snetkov entered, and nobleship surrounded him, congratulating him.
Now it is over? Lewin asked Sergey Ivanovich.
“It just begins,” he smiled, said Sergey Ivanovich Sviažsky. The candidate of the leader can get more balls.
Lewin has forgotten it again.
He only remembered that there was some subtility here, but he was boring to remember what it was.
He was disappointed and wanted to get out of the crowd.
Since no one was paying attention to him and he seemed like no one needed him, he slowly went to the small hall where they were eating, and felt a great relief, again seeing the lakes.
The old Lacey offered him to eat, and Levin agreed.
Sitting a cottage with beans and speaking with Lakey about the former gentlemen, Levin, unwilling to enter the hall, where he was so unpleasant, went to the cottage.
The men were filled with striking women, who walked through the perils and tried not to throw a word out of what was said below.
Around the women sat and stood elegant lawyers, high school teacher in glasses and officers.
Everywhere we talked about the elections and how the leader suffered and how good the trials were; in one group, Levin heard a praise to his brother.
One woman told the lawyer:
I’m so glad I’ve heard Koznyševa!
It is worth hungry.
The beauty!
How clear and heard!
No one in the court says that. Only one Maidel, and he is far from so red-speaking.
Founding a free place at the peril, Levin swallowed and began to look and listen.
All the nobles sat behind the cities in their countryside.
In the midst of the hall, a man stood in a mount and with a thin, loud voice declared:
- The candidates of the Governor's leadership of the nobleship are balloted by the head of state, Yevgeny Ivanovich Apuhtin!
A dead silence came, and a weak old voice was heard:
I rejected!
- The outer counselor Peter Petrovich Pain is balloted, - the voice begins again.
I rejected! There was a young whisper voice.
It started the same again and rejected again.
It lasted about an hour.
Levin, hanging on the perle, looked and listened.
First he was surprised and wanted to understand what it meant; then, convinced that he could not understand it, he became bored.
Then, remembering all the excitement and anger he saw on all the faces, he became sad: he decided to leave and went down.
Going through the Seni Chor, he met the walking back and forward deaf high school student with shrinking eyes.
On the staircase he met a couple: a lady, who quickly fled on the cables, and a light companion of the prosecutor.
“I told you that you don’t be delayed,” said the prosecutor while Levin stood out, missing the lady.
Levin was already on the exit staircase and brought out of the jacket pocket the numbers of his shub when the secretary caught him. - Sorry, Konstantin Dmitrych, they will ballot.
The candidates were so strongly rejected by Nevedovsky.
Levin approached the door to the hall: it was closed.
The secretary crushed, the door opened, and in front of Levin, two scattered locks were scattered.
“I don’t have any urine,” said a red-wrapped locker.
The faces of the Governor were followed.
This face was afraid of disappointment and fear.
I told you not to let go! He screamed to the guard. I left you, your superiority!
- Lord! - and, hardly breathed, the governor, tired of swinging in his white pants, leaving his head, went through the middle of the hall to the big table.
Nevedovsky was translated, as it was calculated, and he was the Governor.
Many were happy, many were happy, many were happy, many were excited, many were unhappy and unhappy.
The governor was disappointed, which he could not hide.
When Nevedovsky left the hall, the crowd surrounded him and excitedly followed him, just as she followed the governor on the first day of the election, and just as she followed Snetkov when he was elected.
The newly elected Governor and many of the new party celebrated lunch at Vronsky on that day.
Vronsky came to the elections and because he was bored in the village and had to declare his rights to freedom before Anna, and to pay Sviage's support in the elections for all his troubles for Vronsky in the land elections, and most of all to strictly fulfill all the duties of the position of the noble and landlord he chose himself.
But he did not expect that this election matter would take him so well, that it would take him so well and that he could do it so well.
He was a completely new person in the circles of nobles, but obviously he had success and did not mistake thinking he had already gained influence among nobles.
His influence was contributed: his wealth and wealth; the beautiful room in the city, which was given to him by the old acquaintance, Shirkov, who was engaged in financial affairs and founded a prosperous bank in Kashin; the excellent cook of Vronsky, brought from the village; the friendship with the governor, who was a companion, and still a protected companion, Vronsky; and most of all, the simple, equal to all relationships, which very soon forced the majority of the nobles to change the judgment of his supposed pride.
He felt himself that, in addition to this wicked master, married to Kitty Scherbatskaya, who a propos de bottes with a bit of evil sent him a lot of nonsense stupidities, every noble man with whom he met became his supporter.
He clearly saw, and others acknowledged that the success of Nevedovsky he contributed a lot.
And now at his table, celebrating the choice of Nevedovsky, he experienced a pleasant feeling of celebration for his elected.
The elections so misleaded him that, if he was married for the next three years, he himself thought to ballot, as if after winning the prize through the joke he wanted to jump himself.
We celebrated the victory of Joker.
Vronsky sat at the head of the table, on his right hand sat a young governor, a Switzerland general.
For all this was the master of the province, celebratingly opening the elections, speaking and exciting respect and slavery in many, as Vronsky saw; for Vronsky it was Maslow Katka, - this was his name in the Pasha Corps, - confused before him, and whom Vronsky tried to put a son aise.
On his left hand, Nevedovsky sat with his young, impeccable and poisoning face.
With him, Vronsky was simple and respectful.
Swiazhsky suffered his failure with joy.
This was not even a failure for him, as he himself said, with a glass of turn to Nevedovsky: it was better not possible to find a representative of the new direction to be followed by nobleship.
And that is why everything honest, as he said, stood on the side of the present success and celebrated it.
Stepan Arkadic was also glad that he had a fun time and that everyone was happy.
After a wonderful lunch, the elections took place.
Swiazhsky comically transmitted the slurry speech of the leader and noticed, addressing Nevedovsky, that his superiority would have to choose another, more complicated than tears, set of amounts.
Another joke noble told how the lacks were drawn out for the ball of the Governor and how now they will have to be sent back if the new Governor does not give the ball with the lacks in the balls.
Uninterruptedly during lunch, addressing Nevedovsky, they said: "Our Governor leader" and "Your superiority".
This was spoken with the same pleasure that the young woman was called "madame" and in the name of her husband.
Nevedovsky seemed that he was not only indifferent, but also denied this title, but it was obvious that he was happy and holds himself under the shadows, not to express an enthusiasm not suitable for the new, liberal environment in which everyone was.
After lunch, several telegrams were sent to people interested in the course of the election.
And Stephan Arkadić, who was very fun, sent Darje Alexandrovne a telegram of this content: "Nevedovsky was chosen by twelve balls.
I congratulate.
Give it.”
He dictated her loudly, noticing, “They should be pleased.”
Darya Alexandrovna, after receiving a deposit, just breathed about the ruble for the telegram and realized that the matter was at the end of the lunch.
She knew that Steve had a weakness at the end of the lunch "faire jouer le telegraphe".
Everything was, along with a great lunch and wines not from the Russian winery traders, but directly abroad, very noble, simple and fun.
A circle of people in twenty people was chosen by Sviazhsky from unanimous, liberal, new actors and together intelligent and decent.
They drink the toasts, also semi-shut, both for the new governor, and for the governor, and for the director of the bank, and for the "love of our owner".
Vronsky was pleased.
He did not expect such a sweet tone in the province.
At the end of the lunch it was even more fun.
The governor asked Vronsky to go to a concert in favour of the brother, which was arranged by his wife, who wanted to meet him.
There will be a ball and you will see our beauty.
In fact wonderful.
“Not in my line,” Wronsky answered, who loved this expression, but smiled and promised to come.
Already before he came out of the table, when everyone smoked, Vronsky's comrador approached him with a letter on the table.
“From the upward with intentional,” he said with a significant expression.
“It’s surprising how he looks like the comrades of the Prosecutor Sventitsky,” said one of the guests in French about the comrades, while Vronsky, bullshit, read the letter.
It was a letter from Anna.
Even before he read the letter, he already knew the content.
Assuming that the election will end in five days, he promised to return on Friday.
The night was Saturday, and he knew that the contents of the letter were contradictory in the fact that he didn’t come back in time.
The letter he sent yesterday night probably has not yet arrived.
The content was the same as he expected, but the form was unexpected and unpleasant to him.
“Annie is very sick, the doctor says there may be inflammation.
I am alone losing my head.
Princess Barbara is not an assistant, but an obstacle.
I was waiting for you the third day, yesterday and now I send you to know where you are and what you are?
I wanted to go, but I thought, knowing that it would be unpleasant to you.
Give someone the answer so that I know what to do.”
The child was sick and she wanted to go.
The daughter is sick, and this hostile tone.
This innocent joy of the election and the dark, heavy love to which he had to return, hit Vronsky with his opposite.
But he had to go, and on the first train, in the night, he left to himself.
Before Vronsky's departure to the election, considering that the scenes that repeated between them at each of his departure can only cool him, and not bind him, Anna decided to make every effort to calmly tolerate the separation with him.
But the cold, strict sight with which he looked at her when he came to announce his departure, insulted her, and yet he did not leave, as her tranquility had already been destroyed.
In loneliness, then overthinking this view that expressed the right to freedom, she came, as always, to one, to the consciousness of her humiliation.
He has the right to go when and where he wants.
Not just to leave, but to leave me.
He has all rights, I have no.
But knowing that, he shouldn’t have done that.
But what did he do?
He looked at me with a cold, strict expression.
Of course, this is uncertain, untouchable, but that was not before, and that view means a lot, she thought. “This look shows that the cooling begins.”
And although she was convinced that the cooling began, she still had nothing to do, there was nothing to change her relationship with him.
Just like before, with one love and attraction she could hold him. And like before, by day lessons and morphins at night, she could hide terrible thoughts about what would happen if he loved her.
Indeed, there was another way: not to hold him - for that she didn't want anything but his love - but to get closer to him, to be in such a position that he didn't leave her.
This means was divorce and marriage.
And she began to desire that and decided to agree for the first time as he or Steve will tell her about it.
In such thoughts she spent five days without him, the same that he had to be absent.
Walks, conversations with the princess Barbara, visits to the hospital, and most importantly, reading, reading one book for the other took her time.
But on the sixth day, when the dog returned without him, she felt that she was no longer able to conceal the thought of him and what he did there.
At the same time, her daughter was sick.
Anna took to go for her, but it didn’t disrupt her, especially that the disease wasn’t dangerous.
Whatever she tried, she couldn’t love that girl, and she couldn’t pretend to be in love.
By the evening of that day, left alone, Anna felt so afraid of him that she decided to go to the city, but, thinking well, she wrote that contradictory letter that Wronsky received, and, without reading it, she sent it with intention.
The next morning she received his letter and regretted in her own.
She was scared to expect the repetition of the strict look he threw on her while leaving, especially when he learned that the girl was not dangerously sick.
She was glad she wrote to him.
Now Anna has already acknowledged that he’s angry with her, that he with regret leaves her freedom to return to her, and, despite that, she was glad that he’s coming.
Let him stretch, but he will be here with her, so that she could see him, know every movement of him.
She sat in the living room, under the lamp, with the new Tena book and read, listening to the sounds of the wind in the courtyard and waiting every minute for the crew to arrive.
Several times it seemed to her that she heard the sounds of the wheels, but she fooled; finally they heard not only the sounds of the wheels, but also the cover of the cushion and the dirty sound in the cover entrance.
Even the princess Barbara, who was passionate, confirmed that, and Anna, exploding, stood up, but instead of going down, as she walked twice before, she stopped.
She suddenly became ashamed for her deceit, but most afraid of how he will accept her.
The feeling of insult has already passed; she was only afraid of the expression of his dissatisfaction.
She remembered that her daughter was healthier the next day.
She even bothered her because she recovered just as the letter was sent.
Then she remembered him that he was here, all, with his hands, his eyes.
She heard his voice. And when she forgot everything, she fled with joy to him.
What about Annie? He spoke badly from the bottom, looking at Anna who fled to him.
He was sitting on a chair, and Lakey struck a warm shoe with him.
Nothing, she is better.
And you? He said, breaking out.
She took him with both hands for his hand and pulled it to his belt, not leaving the eye from him.
“Well, I’m very happy,” he said, coolly looking at her, her hairstyle, her dress he knew that she dressed for him.
He liked it, but he liked it so many times.
And that strict-stone expression she was so afraid of stopped on her face.
Well, I am very happy.
Are you healthy? He said, he dropped the wet beard and kissed her hand.
Anyway, she thought, only if he was here, and when he was here, he can’t, he doesn’t dare not to love me.”
The evening passed happily and joyfully with the princess Barbara, who complained to him that Anna was taking morphine without him.
What to do?
I couldn’t sleep...
Thoughts interfere.
I never take it with him. Almost never.
He talked about the elections, and Anna was able to ask him the same thing that delighted him – his success.
She told him everything that interested him at home. And all the information was the most fun.
But late in the evening, when they stayed alone, Anna, seeing that she once again fully mastered them, wanted to remove that difficult impression of viewing the letter. She said:
You’ve been bored with receiving a letter, and you didn’t believe me.
Just after she said this, she realized that no matter how lovingly he was now located to her, he did not forgive her.
“Yes,” he said. The letter was so strange.
If Annie was sick, then you wanted to come.
It was all true.
I do not doubt.
No, you are doubtful.
You are unhappy, I see.
No one minute.
I’m just unhappy, it’s true, that you don’t want to admit that there’s a duty...
The obligation to go to the concert.
“But let’s not talk,” he said.
Why not speak? She said.
I just want to say that things that need can happen.
Now I’ll have to go to Moscow for the business of my home.
Oh Anna, why are you so annoying?
Do you not know that I can’t live without you?
- And if so, - said Anna suddenly with a changing voice, - then you'll get stuck with this life.
Yes, you’ll come for a day and go as they do...
Anna is cruel.
I’m ready to give all my life...
But she did not listen to him.
If you go to Moscow, I will go.
I will not stay here.
We must either break up, or live together.
You know that this is one of my wishes.
But for that...
Need to divorce?
I will write to him.
I see that I can’t live like that.
I will go with you to Moscow.
You are threatening me.
Yes, I don't want anything like not to break up with you, - smile, Wronsky said.
But not only the cold, evil look of the persecuted and cruel man glowed in his eyes when he spoke these gentle words.
She saw that look and realized the meaning of it.
“If so, it’s unfortunate.” He said that his view.
It was a minute impression, but she never forgot it again.
Anna wrote a letter to her husband, asking him for divorce, and at the end of November, divorced with the princess Barbara, who had to travel to St. Petersburg, with Vronsky moved to Moscow.
Waiting every day for Alexey Alexandrovich’s response and after that divorce, they now settled married together.
Part Seventh
The Levins lived in Moscow for the third month.
It has long passed the time when, according to the most true calculations of the people who know these things, Kitty had to be born; and she was still wearing, and it was not noticeable that the time was closer now than two months ago.
And the doctor, and the nurse, and Dolly, and the mother, and in particular Levin, who was unfortunate to think about the approaching, began to experience intolerance and anxiety; one Kitty felt completely calm and happy.
She was now clearly aware of the birth in herself of a new sense of love for the future, partly for her already a real child, and with pleasure listened to that feeling.
He was no longer a part of it, and sometimes he lived his independent life.
She often suffered from it, but at the same time she wanted to laugh at the strange new joy.
Everyone she loved was with her, and everyone was so good to her, so careful for her, so one pleasant thing was given to her, that if she didn’t know and didn’t feel that it had to end soon, she’t want a better and pleasant life.
One thing that gave her the beauty of this life was that her husband was not the one she loved him and the one he was in the village.
She loved his quiet, gentle and guestly tone in the village.
In the city, he seemed constantly anxious and wary, as if he was afraid that anyone would not hurt him and, most importantly, her.
There, in the village, he, obviously knowing himself in his place, did not rush anywhere and never was unemployed.
Here, in the city, he was constantly hurrying, as if he did not miss something, and he had nothing to do.
She was sad for him.
For others, she knew, he didn’t seem sad; on the contrary, when Kitty in society looked at him, as they sometimes look at the loved one, trying to see him as a stranger, in order to determine the impression he makes on others, she saw, with fear even for her jealousy, that he was not only unfortunate, but very attractive with his decency, somewhat old-fashioned, stunning kindness with women, his strong figure and a special, as she seemed, expressive face.
But she saw him not from the outside, but from the inside; she saw that he was not true here; otherwise she could not determine his state.
Sometimes she blamed him in her soul for not being able to live in the city; sometimes she realized that it was really difficult for him to organize her life here in a way that would be pleased with her.
In fact, what had he to do?
He didn’t like to play in the cards.
I didn’t go to the club.
With fun men like Oblonsky driving, she already knew what it meant... it meant drinking and driving after drinking somewhere.
She could not without fear imagine where men were going in such cases.
Driving to the light?
But she knew that it was necessary to find the pleasure of getting closer to young women, and she couldn’t want it.
Sitting home with her, with her mother and sisters?
But no matter how pleasant and joyful the same conversations, Alina Nadina, as the old prince called these conversations, she knew that it should be boring for him.
What was he left to do?
Continue to write your book?
He tried to do this, and went to the library first to make letters and references for his book; but as he told her, the more he did nothing, the less time he had left.
And, in addition, he complained to her that he talked too much about his book here and that therefore all the thoughts about it were confused with him and lost interest.
One advantage of this city life was that there was no dispute here, in the city, between them.
Whether the conditions of the city are different, or because they both became more cautious and more reasonable in this regard, in Moscow they had no dispute because of the jealousy they were so afraid of moving to the city.
In this regard, even one very important event occurred for them both, namely the meeting of Kitty with Vronsky.
The old princess Maria Borisovna, the cross mother of Kitty, always very loved her, wanted to see her.
Kitty, not traveling anywhere in her position, went with her father to the honorable old man and met her with Vronsky.
At this meeting, Kitty could blame herself only in the fact that at the moment she knew in the state dress so familiar features, she stopped breathing, blood fled to the heart, and a bright colour, she felt it, appeared on her face.
But it lasted just a few seconds.
Even the father, who intentionally spoke loudly with Vronsky, did not end his conversation, as she was already quite ready to look at Vronsky, to speak with him, if necessary, just as she spoke with Princess Mary Borisovny, and most importantly, so that everything until the last intonation and smile was approved by the husband whose invisible presence she seemed to feel over herself in that moment.
She said a few words to him, even quietly smiled on his joke about the elections he called “our parliament.”
(I had to smile to show that she understood a joke.)
But immediately she turned to the princess Maria Borisovna and never looked at him until he stood up, saying forgiveness; here she looked at him, but obviously only because it was unrespectful not to look at the man when he worshipped.
She was grateful to her father for he didn’t tell her anything about the meeting with Vronsky; but she saw him with a special delicacy after the visit, during a regular walk, that he was pleased with her.
She was happy with herself.
She did not expect that she had this power to hold somewhere in the depths of her soul all the memories of the past feeling to Vronsky and not only to appear, but also to be quite indifferent and calm to him.
Levin rednessed her much more when she told him that she met Vronsky with Princess Maria Borisovna.
It was very difficult for her to tell him this, but it was even more difficult to keep talking about the details of the meeting, as he didn’t ask her, but just looked up and looked at her.
“I am very sorry that you were not there,” she said. Not that you were not in the room... I’t be so natural with you...
“I am now red much more, much more, much more,” she said, red to tears. But that you couldn’t see in the shell.
The true eyes told Levine that she was happy with her, and he, despite her redness, immediately calmed and began asking her what she only wanted.
When he learned everything, even to the detail that she could not be red in the first second only, but that then it was as simple and easy for her as with the first meeting, Levin was completely delighted and said that he was very happy with it and now he will not be as stupid as in the elections, but will try at the first meeting with Vronsky to be as friendly as possible.
“It’s so painful to think that there’s a man almost an enemy with whom it’s hard to meet,” Levin said. I am very, very happy.
“So go, please, to the pain,” Kitty said to her husband when he went to her at the eleven o’clock before leaving the house. “I know you’re eating in the club, my dad wrote you.
What do you do in the morning?
“I’m to Katavasov only,” Levin replied.
What is so early?
He promised me to get to know the Metro.
I wanted to talk to him about my work, it’s a famous St. Petersburg scientist,” said Levin.
Do you praise this article so much?
And then? Kitty said.
I may go to the court in the case of my sister.
And at the concert? She asked.
I will go alone!
- No, take the train; there are these new things...
You were so interested.
I would definitely go.
“Well, I’ll go home before lunch,” he said, looking at the clock.
The day is the sunrise to go straight to the Graphine of Pain.
Is that necessarily necessary?
Oh yeah definitely!
He was with us.
What is worth you?
You’ll eat, sit, talk about the weather for five minutes, get up and go.
Well, you won’t believe, I’m so used to that, that’s my consciousness. How is it?
A stranger came, sitting, sitting without anything, interfering with them, turning up and leaving.
Kitty laughed.
Did you make your visits cool? She said.
I did, but it was always conscious, and now it is so abnormal that, she-God, it is better not to eat for two days instead of this visit.
So consciously!
I think all of them are harassed and will say, “Why did you come without doing this?”
No, they will not be harassed.
“I’m responsible for it,” Kitty said, looking at his face with a laughter.
She took him in the hand. Goodbye...
Go please.
He wanted to go, kissing his wife's hand when she stopped him.
You know that I have only 50 rubles left.
I’m going to take it out of the bank.
How much? He said with a familiar expression of dissatisfaction.
No, you are standing. She held him in the hand. Let’s talk, I’m worried.
I don’t cry any more, and the money is flowing.
Something we do not.
“Nothing,” he said, rejecting and looking at her sublime.
She knew that disappointment.
It was a sign of his strong dissatisfaction, not on her, but on herself.
He was indeed unhappy, but not that money came out a lot, but that he was reminded of what he, knowing that something is bad in it, wants to forget.
I ordered Sokolova to sell the wheat and take it forward for the milk.
Money will be anyway.
No, but I am afraid that there is a lot of...
Not much, not much, he repeated. Goodbye, my soul.
“No, right, I sometimes regret that I listened to my mom.
How good it was in the village!
And then I have suffered you all, and we will waste the money.
Not a few, not a few.
There has never been since I’ve been married to say that it’s better to be different than it’s.
The truth? She said, looking in his eyes.
He said it without thinking, just to comfort her.
But when he looked at her and saw that these true sweet eyes were questionably aimed at him, he repeated the same from all his soul.
“I definitely forget her,” he thought. And he remembered what was waiting for them so soon.
And soon?
How do you feel? He screamed and took her for both hands.
I’ve thought so many times that I don’t think or know anything now.
And not scary?
She smiled negligently.
“No drops,” she said.
If so, I will be at Katowice.
No, nothing will happen, and don’t think.
I’m going to walk with my dad to the bulvar.
We go to Dolly.
I am waiting for you before lunch.
Oh yeah yes!
Do you know that the situation of Dolly becomes decisively impossible?
She has a circle, she has no money.
We talked yesterday with my mother and Arsenia (so she called her sister's husband Lvova) and decided to leave you with him to Steve.
This is definitely impossible.
I can’t talk about this with my father.
If you and he...
What can we do? He said Levin.
“But you will be at Arsenia, talk to him; he will tell you what we have decided.
I agree with Arsenia on everything.
So I will go to him.
If I go to the concert, I’m going to go with Natalie.
Well goodbye to.
On the wing of the old, still cold life, the servant of Kuzma, who led the urban economy, stopped Levin.
“The beautiful man (this was a horse, the left breathing, brought from the village) was overcovered, and everyone was crumbling,” he said. How do you order?
For the first time in Moscow Levina occupied horses brought from the village.
He wanted to arrange this part as best and cheaper as possible; but it turned out that his horses were more expensive than the exporters, and the exporters were still taken.
I’m going to send it, may be, and may be, may be.
What about Katarina Alexandrovna? I asked Kuzma.
Levina was no longer surprised now, as in the first time of his life in Moscow, that to move from the Rise to the Sevts of the Enemy, it was necessary to strike a pair of strong horses into a heavy car, to take this car on the snow messy a quarter of the roof and stand there for four hours, paying for it five rubles.
Now it seemed natural to him.
“Let the carrier bring a couple into our car,” he said.
I listen to S.
And, so simple and easy to resolve, thanks to the urban conditions, the difficulty that in the village would require so much personal work and attention, Levin went out on the wing and, clicking the carrier, sat and went to Nikitskaya.
Dear, he no longer thought about money, but thought about how he would get acquainted with a sociology scientist in St. Petersburg and talk to him about his book.
Only at the very first time in Moscow, those strange, unproductive, but inevitable expenses that were demanded from him from all sides, hit Levin.
Now he is accustomed to them.
It happened to him in this regard what, they say, happens to the drunken: the first rymp is col'm, the second socol'm, and after the third - small birds.
When Levin exchanged the first rubber paper for the purchase of the libra laque and the Swiss, he unintentionally realized that these libra were not necessary to anyone, but inevitably necessary, judging by how the princess and Kitty were surprised by the suggestion that without the libra could be done—that these libra would cost two summer workers, that is, about three hundred working days from the holy to the department, and every day of hard work from the early morning to the late evening—and that rubber paper was still round.
But the next, exchanged for the purchase of the lunch provision for the relatives, which was worth twenty eight rubles, although it caused in Levin the remembrance that twenty eight rubles—it is nine-quarters of the sheep, which, sweating and crushing, heated, wrapped, melted, wrapped, seated and sweated—this next went even easier.
And now the exchanged paper has long not caused such considerations and flown with small birds.
If the work placed on the acquisition of money corresponds to the pleasure that the thing that is purchased on them, this reason has long been lost.
The economic calculation that there is a known price, below which a known bread cannot be sold, was also forgotten.
The roge, the price he held for so long, was sold for fifty copies a quarter cheaper than it was given for a month ago.
Even the calculation that with such expenses it is impossible to live the whole year without debt, and this calculation was no longer meaningful.
Only one thing was required: to have money in the bank, without asking where they are, so that they always know what to buy beef tomorrow.
And this calculation was still in keeping with him: he always had money in the bank.
But now the money in the bank came out, and he didn’t know well where to get it from.
And that was the moment when Kitty reminded of the money, which annoyed him; but he had never thought about it.
He was driving, thinking about Katavasov and the upcoming acquaintance with Metro.
Levin came to his arrival again closely with his former university fellow, Professor Katavasov, with whom he had not seen since his marriage.
Katavas was pleased with the clarity and simplicity of his worldview.
Levin thought that the clarity of Katavasov’s worldview came from the poverty of his nature; Katavasov thought that the inconsistency of Levin’s thought came from the lack of discipline of his mind; but the clarity of Katavasov was pleasant to Levin, and the abundance of undisciplined thoughts of Levin was pleasant to Katavasov, and they loved to meet and argue.
Levin read Katavasov some places in his work, and they liked him.
Yesterday, meeting Levin on a public lecture, Katavasov told him that the famous Metro, whose article so liked Levin, is in Moscow and very interested in what Katavasov told him about Levin's work, and that Metro will be with him tomorrow at eleven and very pleased to get to know him.
“You’re resolutely correct, grandmother, it’s nice to see,” said Katavasov, meeting Levin in a small living room. I hear the call and I think it can’t be in time...
What are the Montenegros?
The species of warriors.
And what? He asked Levin.
Katavasov, in short words, gave him the latest news and, entering the cabinet, met Levin with a low, thick, very pleasant person.
It was the meters.
The conversation stopped for a short time on politics and on how the top spheres in St. Petersburg look at the latest events.
Metrov transmitted the words known to him from a true source, as if they were said in this case by the state and one of the ministers.
Katasov also heard the truth that the king said quite differently.
Levin tried to invent a position in which both those and other words could be said, and the conversation on this topic stopped.
“Yes, he wrote almost a book about the natural conditions of the worker in relation to the earth,” Katavasov said. I am not a specialist, but I like, as a naturalist, that he does not take mankind as something outside the zoological laws, but, on the contrary, sees his dependence on the environment and in this dependence finds the laws of development.
“It’s very interesting,” said Metro.
“I, in fact, began to write a agricultural book, but unintentionally, engaged in the main instrument of agriculture, the workers,” said Levin, the red, “has come to results quite unexpected.
And Levin shed carefully, as if he felt the soil, to expose his sight. He knew that Metrov wrote an article against the commonly accepted political and economic doctrine, but to what extent he could hope for sympathy in it to his new views, he did not know and could not guess on the smart and quiet face of the scientist.
But what do you see in the special properties of the Russian worker? He said the meters. - In the zoological, so to say, its properties or in the conditions in which it is located?
Levin saw that a thought had already been expressed in this matter, with which he was disagreeing; but he continued to expose his thought that the Russian worker has a very special view of the earth from the other peoples.
And to prove this situation, he stumbled to add that, in his opinion, this view of the Russian people arises from the consciousness of their call to settle the enormous, unemployed spaces in the east.
“It’s easy to be misleading by making a conclusion about the general call of the people,” Metrov said, breaking over Levin. The state of the worker will always depend on his relationship with the land and capital.
And without allowing Levin to explain his thought, Metrov began to expose him the peculiarity of his teaching.
What was the characteristic of his teaching, Levin did not understand, because he did not try to understand: he saw that Metrov, like others, despite his article in which he denied the teaching of economists, still looked at the position of the Russian worker only from the point of view of capital, wage and rent.
Although he should have acknowledged that in the east, the greatest part of Russia, the rent is still zero, that the wage is expressed for the nine-thirds of the eighty-million Russian population only by the food of himself, and that the capital still does not exist otherwise than in the form of the most primitive instruments, — but he only looked at every worker from this point of view, although in many ways he did not agree with the economists and had his new theory of the wage, which he exposed to Levin.
Levin listened unwantedly and first opposed.
He wanted to cross Metrova to say his thought, which he believed had to make unnecessary further explanation.
But then, having been convinced that they look so differently to the matter that they will never understand each other, he no longer contradicted and just listened.
Despite the fact that he was no longer interested in what Metro said, he felt, however, some pleasure of listening to him.
His self-love was benefited by the fact that such a scientist so willing, with such attention and confidence in the knowledge of the subject by Levin, sometimes with one clue indicating the whole side of the matter, expressed his thoughts to him.
He attributed this to his dignity, unknowing that Metrov, having talked with all his loved ones, willingly talked about this subject with every new man, and in general willingly talked with everyone about the subject he had occupied, unclear to him.
“But we’re late,” said Katavasov, looking at the clock as soon as Metrov finished his exhibition.
“Yes, today the meeting in the Society of Amateurs in memory of Swintitch’s fifty-year anniversary,” Katavasov said on the question of Levin. We met with Peter Ivanovich.
I promised to read about his works in Zoo.
Let’s go with us, very interesting.
“Yes, and it’s really time,” said Metrov. Go with us, and from there, if you want, to me.
I would like to listen to your work.
It’s still so, it’s not over.
I am very pleased with the meeting.
What did you hear, Daddy?
He submitted a separate opinion, — said Katavasov, in the other room wearing a frak.
There was a discussion about the university issue. The university issue was a very important event this winter in Moscow.
Three old professors in the council did not accept the opinion of the young; the young submitted a separate opinion.
This opinion, by judgment of some, was terrible, by judgment of others, was the simplest and fairest opinion, and the professor divided into two parties.
Some, to whom Katavas belonged, saw on the opposite side a misleading and deceit; others — childhood and disrespect of authorities.
Levin, though not belonging to the university, had heard and talked about this matter several times in his lifetime in Moscow and had his own opinion on this matter; he took part in the conversation, which continued on the street, until the three came to the building of the old university.
The meeting has already begun.
There were six people sitting at the table, covered with a jacket, for which Katavas and Metro were sitting, and one of them, close to the manuscript, read something.
Levin sat on one of the empty chairs that stood around the table, and laughed and asked the student who was sitting here what they read.
The student, looking unhappy at Levin, said:
and biography.
Although Levin was not interested in the biography of the scientist, he was deliberately listening and learning something interesting and new about the life of the famous scientist.
When the reader ended, the chairman thanked him and read the poems sent to him by the poet Menta for this anniversary and a few words to thank the poet.
Then Katavasov, with his loud, crying voice, read his note about the scientists' works of the Jubilee.
When Katavasov finished, Levin looked at the clock, saw that it was the second hour, and thought that he would not be able to read Metro's composition before the concert, and now he didn't want it.
He also thought about his previous conversation.
Now it was clear to him that although Metro’s thoughts may be, and have meaning, but his thoughts also have meaning; these thoughts can be understood and lead to something only when everyone will work separately on the chosen path, and from the message of these thoughts nothing can come out.
And, having decided to refuse the invitation of Metro, Levin approached him at the end of the meeting.
Metrov met Levin with the chairman, with whom he talked about political news.
At the same time, Metrov told the chairman the same thing he told Levin, and Levin made the same comments he had already made this morning, but for diversity he expressed his new opinion, which immediately came to his mind.
After that, the discussion began again on the university issue.
Since Levin had already heard all this, he stumbled to tell the Metro that he regrets that he can’t take advantage of his invitation, scratched and went to Lviv.
The lion, married to Natalie, the sister of Kitty, spent his whole life in the capitals and abroad, where he was raised and served as a diplomat.
Last year he left the diplomatic service, not for trouble (he never had trouble with anyone), and moved to the palace department to Moscow to give the best education to his two boys.
Despite the sharpest opposition in habits and views and the fact that the Lions were older than Levin, they in this winter very coined and loved each other.
The lion was at home, and Levin entered him without a report.
The lion in the home shirt with a belt, in the shirt shoes sat on a chair and in the pince-nez with blue glasses read a book standing on the pipet, carefully on the flight with a beautiful hand to half the smoking cigarette.
His beautiful, thin and still young face, whose chicken bright silver hair gave an even more fertile expression, glowed with a smile when he saw Levin.
Great is!
I wanted to send you.
What about Kitty?
Sitting here, more quiet... – He stood up and moved the hole. - Have you read the last circle in "Journal de St.-Petersburg"?
“I find it great,” he said with a few French accents.
Levin told what Katavasov heard about what they said in St. Petersburg, and, talking about politics, told about his acquaintance with Metro and his trip to the meeting.
The lion was very interested.
“I’m jealous of you that you have entrances into this interesting scientist world,” he said. And speaking, as usual, he immediately moved to a more convenient French language for him. It is true that I have ever.
My service and child care deprives me of this; and then I’m not ashamed to say that my education is not enough.
“I don’t think of that,” said Levin with a smile and, as always, humiliating his low opinion about himself, not abandoned by the desire to appear or even be humble, but completely more honest.
Oh how well!
I feel like I am less educated.
I even need to refresh a lot in memory and just learn.
Because there is little to be a teacher, you need to be an observer, as in your business you need workers and a supervisor.
Here I read, - he showed the grammatics of Buslaev, lying on the pipet, - demand from Misha, and it's so difficult...
Here you explain to me.
Here he says...
Levin wanted to explain to him that this cannot be understood, but it must be taught; but Lev did not agree with him.
Yes, you are laughing about it!
On the contrary, you can’t imagine how, looking at you, I’m always learning what’s up to me – to educate children.
“I’m going to learn something,” Lviv said.
“I only know,” said Levin, “that I have not seen better educated children than yours, and I would not wish children better than yours.
The lion, apparently, wanted to stay, not to express his joy, but he also glowed with a smile.
If they were better than me.
This is all I want.
You don’t know all the hard work, he started, with the boys who, like mine, were launched with this life abroad.
Give it all.
They are such capable children.
The main thing is moral education.
This is what I learn when I look at your children.
You say, moral education.
You can’t imagine how difficult it is!
Just as you have defeated one side, others grow, and again fight.
If there was no support in religion, remember, we talked to you, then no father by his own strength would be able to raise without this help.
Interested always Levi's conversation this was interrupted by the entering, dressed already for the exit, the beauty of Natalya Alexandrovna.
“And I didn’t know that you’re here,” she said, obviously not only unpleasant, but even pleased to have passed this long-known and annoying conversation. What about Kitty?
I have lunch with you today.
This is, Arseny, — she turned to her husband — you’ll take the car.
And the judgment began between the husband and the wife, how they will spend the day.As the husband had to go to meet someone at the service, and the wife to the concert and public meeting of the south-eastern committee, there had to be a lot to decide and consider.
Levin, as his person, had to participate in these plans.
It was decided that Levin will go with Natalie to a concert and to a public meeting, and from there the caret will be delivered to the countryside for Arsenia, and he will follow her and bring her to Kitty; or if he does not finish the affairs, the caret will be delivered, and Levin will go with her.
“He’s hurt me,” said Lev to his wife, “will assure me that our children are beautiful when I know that there is so much evil in them.
“Arsenius comes to the extreme, I always say,” the wife said. If you are looking for perfection, you will never be happy.
And the truth is that, when we were raised, there was one extreme: we were kept in anthresols, and the parents lived in the basement; now on the contrary, the parents in the basement, and the children in the basement.
Parents no longer have to live, but all for children.
What if it is more pleasant? - said the Lion, smiling with her beautiful smile and touching her hand. Whoever doesn’t know you will think you’re not a mother, but a mother.
“No, the extreme is nothing good,” Nathalie calmly said, putting his cut knife on the table in a certain place.
“Well, come here, perfect children,” he said to the beautiful boys who, worshiping Levin, came to his father, obviously wanting to ask him something.
Levin wanted to talk to them, to hear what they’ll say to his father, but Natalie spoke to him, and immediately the Lviv’s comrade in service, Mahotin, entered the room in the courtyard, to go together to meet someone, and the untouchable conversation began about Herzegovina, the princess of Korzinskaya, the Duma and the rapid death of Apraxina.
Levi had forgotten his order. He remembered he was going to the front.
- Ah, Kitty ordered me something to talk to you about Oblonsky, - he said when Lviv stopped on the staircase, carrying his wife and him.
“Yes, the mom wants us, the beau-freres, to attack him,” he said, red and smiling. And then, why am I?
“So I’m going to attack him,” Lvova said, smiling, waiting for the end of the conversation in her white dog rotonde. Well, let’s go.
There were two very interesting things at the concert.
One was the fantasy of "King Lyr in the steep", the other was a quarter dedicated to the memory of Bach.
Both things were new and in a new spirit, and Levin wanted to make his opinion about them.
Leaving his son to her chair, he stood at the column and decided to listen as carefully and honestly as possible.
He tried not to entertain and not to ruin his impressions, looking at the wrath of the hands of a white-wrath chapelmaster, always so unpleasantly entertaining musical attention, on the dams in the hat, carefully for the concert hanging their ears with stripes, and on all these faces, or nothing busy, or busy with the most diverse interests, but only not with music.
He tried to avoid meetings with musicians and speeches, and stood, looking down in front of himself, and listened.
But the more he listened to King Lira’s fantasy, the more he felt of the possibility to make a certain opinion for himself.
It continuously began as if a musical expression of feelings was gathered, but immediately it broke down to the breaks of new beginnings of musical expressions, and sometimes simply on nothing but the composer's appeal, unrelated but extremely complex sounds.
But the most breaks of these musical expressions, sometimes good, were unpleasant because they were completely unexpected and unprepared.
Joy, and sadness, and despair, and delicacy, and celebration were without any right, just the feelings of the fool.
And, as with the crazy, these feelings passed unexpectedly.
Levin during the performance experienced a feeling of dull, looking at the dancers.
He was in perfect confusion when the play was over, and felt a great tiredness from the stressed and no rewarded attention.
From all sides, a loud hand blink was heard.
Everyone stood up, came in, spoke.
Wishing to clarify by the impression of others his misunderstanding, Levin went to walk, searching for acquaintances, and was glad to see one of the famous acquaintances in a conversation with his acquaintance Pescov.
Surprisingly! - He spoke a thick bass of Peskov. “Hello, Constantine Dmitry.
Especially picturesque and sculptural, so to say, and rich in colors the place where you feel the approach of Cordelia, where the woman, das ewig Weibliche, enters the struggle against the rock. isn’t it true?
So why is Cordelia here? Levin asks, completely forgotten that the imagination depicted King Lira in the steep.
It is Cordelia. Here! — said Petsov, striking his fingers on the atlas arch, which he had in his hand, and delivering it to Levin.
Here only Levin remembered the title of fantasy and quickly read in the Russian translation the poems of Shakespeare, printed on the turn of the archive.
“Without this, we can’t follow,” said Petsov, addressing Levin, as his interlocutor went away and spoke with him no more with whom he was.
There was a dispute between Levin and Peskov about the advantages and disadvantages of Vagner's direction of music.
Levin proved that the mistake of Wagner and all his followers was that music wanted to move into the field of foreign art, that the poetry was equally wrong when describing the features of the faces that the painting had to do, and, as an example of such mistake, he brought the sculptor who thought to cut out of the marble the shadows of poetic images rising around the figure of the poet on the pedestal.
“These shadows are so little shadows in the sculptor that they even hold the staircase,” Levin said.
He liked this phrase, but he didn’t remember if he didn’t say the same phrase before, and it was Peskov, and, saying that, he was confused.
Pescov demonstrated that art is one and that it can reach its highest manifestations only in the combination of all genes.
The second number of the concert was no longer heard by Levin. Pescov, staying under him, talked with him almost all the time, condemning this play for its excessive, purely abandoned simplicity and comparing it to the simplicity of the prefaelites in painting.
When he went out, Levin met many other acquaintances, with whom he talked about politics, music, and common acquaintances; among other things, he met Count Bole, about a visit to which he completely forgot.
“Well, so go now,” Lviv told him, to whom he gave it, “maybe you will not be accepted, and then go for me to the meeting.
You will stand again.
Maybe they are not accepted? - said Levin, entering the Senna of the House of the Count of Pain.
“Accept, say goodbye,” said the Switzerland, resolutely removing the shell from him.
“That’s boring,” Levi’s thought, breathing out with a handheld and putting out a hat. Why am I going? “What should I talk to them?”
Going through the first living room, Levin met in the doors the Count of Pain, with a concerned and strict face ordering something to the servant.
When she saw Levin, she smiled and asked him to the next small living room, from which the voices were heard.
In this living room were sitting on the chairs two daughters of the graphene and the acquainted Levin Moscow Colonel.
Levin approached them, greeted and sat under the sofa, holding a hat on his knees.
How is your wife’s health?
Have you been at the concert?
We couldn’t.
My mom had to be in panic.
Yes, I heard...
What a fast death, said Levin.
The cousin came, sat on the sofa and asked about her wife and about the concert.
Levin answered and repeated the question about the rapidness of the death of Apraxine.
She was always poor in health.
Did you go to the opera yesterday?
Yes I was.
Luke was very good.
“Yes, it’s very good,” he said and began, because he didn’t care what he thought about, to repeat what he heard hundreds of times about the characteristic of the singer’s talent.
The Count of Pain felt like he was listening.
Then, when he spoke enough and silenced, the colonel, still silent, began to speak. The Colonel also talked about the opera and the lighting.
Finally, told about the alleged folle journee at Turin, the colonel laughed, laughed, stood up and went away.
Levin also stood up, but on the face of the Count, he noticed that he had not yet time to leave.
Another two minutes are needed. He sat.
But as he thought all about how stupid it was, he did not find the subject of the conversation and was silent.
Are you going to a public meeting?
They say, very interesting, the beginning of the Count.
“No, I promised my belle-soeur to follow her,” said Levin.
There was silence. My mother and daughter looked again.
“Well, it seems it’s time,” Levi thought and stood up.
The ladies grew his hand and asked him to give a thousand things to his wife.
The Switzerlander asked him, putting his hole, “Where are you going to stand?” - and immediately recorded in a large, well-covered book.
"Naturally, it doesn't matter to me, but it's conscious and terribly stupid," Levi's thought, comforting himself with what it's all doing, and went to the public meeting of the committee, where he had to find his wife to go home with her.
The public meeting of the committee was a lot of people and almost the whole society.
Levin got another review, which, as everyone said, was very interesting.
When the reading of the review ended, the society collapsed, and Levin met Sviazhsky, who called him tonight necessarily to the Society of Agriculture, where the famous report will be read, and Stepan Arkadić, who just came from the runner, and many other acquaintances, and Levin still spoke and heard different judgments about the meeting, the new play and the process.
But, probably, as a result of the fatigue of attention he began to experience, speaking about the process, he mistaken, and this mistake later several times with boring reminded him.
Speaking about the upcoming punishment of a stranger who was judged in Russia, and how it would be wrong to punish him with the expulsion abroad, Levin repeated what he heard yesterday in a conversation from a friend. “I think that sending him abroad is like punishing the shark by putting it into the water,” Levin said.
Even later he remembered that this thought, as if it was given to him for his own, he heard from a acquaintance, was from the basin of Krylov and that the acquaintance repeated this thought from the felleton of the newspaper.
After he went home with his wife and made Kitty fun and well-being, Levin went to the club.
Lewin came to the club at the same time.
Guests and members arrived with him.
Levin was not in the club for a long time since he lived in Moscow after leaving the university and traveled into the world.
He remembered the club, the external details of his device, but he completely forgot the impression he had previously experienced in the club.
But as soon as he entered the wide semi-circular courtyard and came down from the carrier, he entered the wing, and in front of him the Switzerland in the crossing opened the door and worshiped; just as he saw in the Switzerland crossing and crossing of members who understood that it was less difficult to take the crossing down than to bring them up; just as he heard the mysterious, preceding him call and saw, entering the crossing staircase, a statue on the square and in the upper doors of the third, the acquainted Switzerland set up in the club libra, not warmly and not slowly opened the door and looked at the crossing, the club was more pleasant, and the club was more pleasant.
“Sorry the hat,” said the Swiss Lewin, who forgot the club’s rule to leave the hat in the Swiss. They have long not existed.
The prince was recorded yesterday.
Prince Stepan Arkadić is not yet.
The Swiss knew not only Levin, but all the connections and relativity and immediately mentioned the people close to him.
After passing through the first passing hall with wheels and the right overwhelmed room, where the fruit maker is sitting, Levin, slowly overwhelming the old man, went into the noisy people's dining room.
He walked along almost busy tables, looking at the guests.
There, then, he was found to the most diverse, both old and young, and hardly familiar and close, people.
No one was angry and worried.
Everyone seemed to have left their concerns and concerns in the Switzerland with their hats and intended to enjoy the material goods of life.
Here was both Sviazhsky, and Šterbatsky, and Nevedovsky, and the old prince, and Vronsky, and Sergey Ivanovich.
A! What is Late? - Smiling, said the prince, giving him his hand through his shoulder. What is Kitty? - he added, repairing the suitcase, which he stuck himself behind the pudding of the jacket.
“Nothing, he’s healthy; they’re eating three at home.
And Alina Nadina.
We have no place.
And go to that table to take a place, — said the prince, and, turning back, cautiously took the plate with the ear of the silk.
Levin is here! A good voice cried a little further.
It was Turovtsin.
He was sitting with a young soldier, and under them were two turned chairs.
Levin came to them with joy.
He always loved Turovtsin’s gentle cottage – with him the memory of the explanation was associated with Kitty – but today, after all the intense intelligent conversations, Turovtsin’s gentle appearance was pleasant to him.
It’s for you and Oblonsky.
He will be now.
A very straight military with fun, always laughing eyes was St. Petersburg Gagin.
Turovtsin met them.
Oblonsky is forever late.
Here is he too.
Have you just arrived? He said Oblonsky. Go quickly to them. is healthy.
Drinking a vodka?
Well we go.
Levin stood up and went with him to a big table, filled with vodka and various snacks.
It seemed that from two dozen snacks it was possible to choose what was to taste, but Stephan Arkadić demanded something special, and one of the standing free lacks immediately brought the desired.
They got a drink and returned to the table.
Now, still behind the ear, Gagin was given champagne, and he ordered it to be filled in four glasses.
Levin refused to give up the wine offered and asked for another bottle.
He was hungry and ate and drank with great pleasure and even with great pleasure took part in the fun and simple conversations of the interlocutors.
Gagin, lowering his voice, talked about the new St. Petersburg joke, and the joke, though unpleasant and stupid, was so mixed that Levin cried so loudly that the neighbors looked at him.
It’s the same as: “I can’t tolerate it!” You know? Asked by Stepan Arkadić. Oh, it is a beauty!
“Give another bottle,” he said to Lakey and began to tell.
- Peter Ilich Vinovsky asks, - the old man broke Stephan Arkadić's lake, lifting two tune glasses of champagne and addressing Stephan Arkadić and Levin.
Stephan Arkadić took the glass and, looking at the other end of the table with a hairy red man, smiled him, smiling, with his head.
Who is it? He asked Levin.
You met me once, you remember?
A good little.
Levin did the same as Stephan Arkadić, and took the glass.
The jokes of Stepan Arkadić were also very fun.
Levin told him a joke that he also liked.
Then we talked about the horses, the running of today, and how Atlasny Vronsky won the first prize.
Levin didn’t notice how the lunch passed.
A! Here are they too! - At the end of the lunch, Step Arkadievich said, swallowing through the back of the chair and stretching his hand to the chief to him, Vronsky, with a high Guard Colonel.
In the face of Vronsky also glowed a common club fun kindness.
He joyfully swallowed on the shoulder of Stephan Arkadic, something scratched him, and with the same joyful smile stretched his hand to Levin.
“It’s a pleasure to meet,” he said. “And I was looking for you at the election, but I was told that you’ve gone,” he told him.
I left the same day.
We just talked about your horse.
I congratulate you, said Levin. It is a very fast ride.
You also have horses.
“No, my father had it; but I remember and know.
Where did you eat lunch? Asked by Stepan Arkadić.
We are behind the second table, behind the columns.
“He was greeted,” said the high colonel. The second Emperor's prize; let me have such happiness in the maps as he has on horses.
What a golden time to lose.
“I’m going to the inhernal room,” said the colonel and went away from the table.
- This is Yashvin, - answered Turovtsin Vronsky and went to the free place under them.
After drinking the bottle, he asked for a bottle.
Under the influence of the club's impressions, or the drunk wine, Levin talked to Vronsky about the best species of the livestock and was very happy that he didn't feel any hostility to that man.
He even told him, among other things, he heard from his wife that she met him with Princess Maria Borisovna.
- Oh, princess Maria Borisovna, that's a beauty! - said Stephan Arkadić and told her a joke that laughed all.
In particular, Vronsky was so kind that Levin felt completely reconciled with him.
What did you end? - said Stepan Arkadic, standing up and smiling. Let’s go!
Out of the table, Levin, feeling that he’s on the walk especially right and easy to move his hands, went with Gagin through the high rooms to the billard.
Going through a large hall, he faced a test.
Well what? How do you like our temple? The prince said, taking him under his hand. Let's go and go.
I wanted to go and see.
It is interesting.
Yes, you are interested. I have a different interest than you.
“You are looking at these old men,” he said, pointing to a narrow member with a swallowed lips, who, moving his legs in soft socks, passed to them, and you think they were born such a couple.
What about marriages?
You don’t know that name.
This is our club term.
You know how eggs catat, so when they catat a lot, it becomes a puppy.
So is our brother: you go to the club and become a spouse.
Yes, you are laughing, and our brother is already watching when he gets into the bride himself.
Do you know the Prince of Chechnya? He asked the prince, and Levin saw on his face that he was going to tell something funny.
No, I don’t know.
Well how well!
Prince of Chechnya is well-known.
He’s always playing a billard.
He had not been married three years ago and was brave. He called the other spouses.
He only comes once, and the Switzerland is our... you know, Vasily?
This is thick.
He is a big bonmotic.
Here, the prince of Chechensky asks him, “Who, Vasily, who has come?
Are there marriages?”
He says, “You are the third.”
My brother, that’s so!
Talking and healing with the acquaintances, Levin and the prince passed through all the rooms: the large, where the tables were already standing and the usual partners played in a small game; the sofa, where they played chess and Sergey Ivanovich sat, talking with someone; the billard, where on the edge of the room at the sofa was composed a fun party with the champagne, in which Gagin participated; they looked at the infernal, where the table, for which Yashvin was already sitting, was crowded many powerful.
Trying not to noise, they entered the dark reading room, where a young man with a angry face was sitting under the lamps with the abjurs, capturing one magazine after another, and a pleasant general deepened in reading.
They entered the room that the prince called smart.
In this room, three gentlemen hotly talked about the latest political news.
“Prince, welcome, ready,” said one of his partners, finding him here, and the prince went away.
Levin sat and listened; but remembering all the talks of this morning, he suddenly became terribly tired.
He quickly stood up and went to look for Oblonsky and Turovtsin, with whom he was fun.
Turovtsin sat with a circle of drinking on a high sofa in the billard, and Stephan Arkadić and Vronsky talked about something at the door in the remote corner of the room.
“It’s not what she misses, but that uncertainty, the unresolvency of the situation,” Levin heard and wanted to go away quickly, but Stephan Arkadić suspected him.
The Levin! “Stepan Arkadić said, and Levin noticed that he had not tears in his eyes, but humidity. How it always happened to him, or when he drank, or when he felt.
The night was one and the other. “Levin, don’t go,” he said, and strongly shed his hand to his lock, obviously not wanting to release him.
“This is my sincere, hardly the best friend,” he said to Vronsky. You are even closer to me and the way. And I want and know that you should be friendly and close because you are both good people.
“Well, we only have to kiss,” Wronsky laughed gently, giving his hand. He quickly took the stretched hand and grew it strongly.
“I’m very, very happy,” said Levin, pressing his hand.
“Man, a bottle of champagne,” said Stepan Arkadić.
“I’m very happy,” said Vronsky.
But despite the desire of Stepan Arkadić and their mutual desire, they had nothing to say, and both felt that.
Do you know he doesn’t know Anna? - said Stefan Arkadic to Vronsky. I definitely want to bring him to her.
Let’s go, Levin
Or not? Wronsky said. She will be very happy.
“I’d go home now,” he added, “but Yashvin worries me, and I want to be here until he’s over.
What is bad?
Everything loses, and only one can keep it.
What about the pyramid?
Lewin, will you play?
Well, and it’s great,” said Stepan Arkadić. “Let the pyramid,” he turned to the markers.
“It’s been ready for a long time,” the markers answered, who had already placed the ball in the triangle and for entertainment sparked the red.
Well let me.
After the party, Vronsky and Levin settled to the table of Gagin, and Levin began, on the proposal of Stephan Arkadić, to hold on the tables.
Vronsky was sitting at the table, surrounded by the acquaintances that were constantly approached to him, and went to the infernal to conduct Yashvina.
Levin experienced a pleasant rest from mental fatigue in the morning.
He was pleased with the ceasefire of hostility with Vronsky, and the impression of peace, mercy and pleasure did not leave him.
When the party ended, Stephan Arkadić took Levin under his hand.
So we go to Anne.
Now?
and? She is home.
I promised her to bring you.
Where did you go tonight?
Nothing in particular.
I promised to the Society of Agriculture. Maybe we’ll go,” said Levin.
Great, we are going!
Find out if my car came, Stephan Arkadić turned to the lake.
Levin approached the table, paid 40 rubles lost to him, paid somewhat mysteriously famous old lady's laquey, stood at the plateau, spending the club and, especially wrapping his hands, went through all the halls to the exit.
The oblonsky caret! The Switzerland was crying angry.
The car came up, and the two settled.
Only the first time when the car was out of the club's door, Levin continued to experience the impression of the club's tranquility, pleasure and the undoubted decency of the surrounding; but as soon as the car went out to the street and he felt the crew's shake on an unfair road, he heard the angry scream of the meeting carrier, he saw in the unclean light the red hang of the cabbage and the cabbage, the impression that was destroyed, and he began to consider his actions and asked himself whether he was doing what he was going to Anne.
What will Kitty say?
But Stephan Arkadić didn’t let him think and, as he guessed his doubts, spread them.
“How glad I’m,” he said, “that you’ll know her.
You know, Dolly has long wanted that. The lion was there and was there.
Even though she is a sister for me, - continued Stepan Arkadić, - I can boldly say that she is a wonderful woman.
Here you will see.
The situation is very difficult, especially now.
Why especially now?
We have talks with her husband about divorce.
And he agrees; but there are difficulties with the son, and this matter, which had to be over for a long time, lasts for three months.
Once there is a divorce, she will go out of Vronsky.
How stupid it is, this old habit of circle, "Isaiya likuy", in which no one believes and which interferes with people's happiness! - Stepan Arkadić insisted. Well, and then their position will be determined as mine as yours.
What is the difficulty? He said Levin.
This is a long and boring story!
This is so uncertain to us.
But the thing is, she, waiting for this divorce here, in Moscow, where everyone knows him and her, lives three months; she doesn’t go anywhere, she doesn’t see any of the women except Dolly, because, you know, she doesn’t want to be traveled to her by grace; this foolish princess Barbara — and she left, considering it unsuitable.
So, in this situation, another woman could not find resources in herself.
She, here you will see how she has arranged her life, how she is calm, worthy.
To the left, to the gate, against the church. - Stepan Arkadić screamed, swallowing into the window of the car. Wow, how hot it is! He said, despite the twelve degrees of freezing, sparking even more his and so sparked shell.
She has a daughter, is she busy? He said Levin.
“You seem to imagine every woman just a female, one couveuse,” said Stephan Arkadić. The work is of course children.
No, she looks great, but she doesn’t hear about her.
She is busy, first of all, with what she writes.
I see you smiling ironically, but foolish.
She writes a children's book and doesn't tell anyone about it, but she read me, and I gave the manuscript to Warkuev... you know, this publisher... and he himself writer, it seems.
He knows it, and he says it’s a wonderful thing.
Do you think it is a female author?
She’s a woman with a heart, you’ll see it.
She now has a British girl and a whole family she is busy with.
Is it something philanthropic?
You want to see bad things now.
Not philanthropic, but heart.
They, i.e. Wronsky, had an English coach, a master of his business, but a drunk.
He was completely drowned, delirium tremens, and the family was abandoned.
She saw them, helped, dragged, and now the whole family is on her hands; yes, no, high, money, and she herself prepares boys in Russian to high school, and the girl took to her.
Here you will see her.
The caret entered the courtyard, and Stephan Arkadić called loudly at the entrance, where the sanas were standing.
And, without asking the artifacter who opened the door, whether he was home, Stephan Arkadić entered the seat.
Levin followed him, increasingly doubting about whether he was doing good or bad.
Looking in the mirror, Levin noticed that he was red; but he was sure he was not drunk, and went on the curve staircase up behind Stephan Arkadić.
Upward, in the worshiping, as a close man, Lakey Stepan Arkadic asked who Anna Arkadievny, and received the answer that Mr. Vorkuev.
Where are they?
in the office.
Passing through a small dining room with dark wooden walls, Stephan Arkadić and Levin on a soft cover entered a half dark cabin, enlightened by one with a large dark shade lamp.
Another refractor lamp burned on the wall and enlightened a large in all the growth portrait of a woman, to which Levin accidentally attended attention.
It was a portrait of Anna, made in Italy by Mikhailov.
While Stephan Arkadić came to the thriller and spoke the male voice silently, Levin looked at the portrait, in bright light standing out of the frame, and could not withdraw from it.
He even forgot where he was, and without listening to what was said, he didn’t drop his eye from the amazing portrait.
It was not a picture, but a living beautiful woman with black shining hair, naked shoulders and hands, and a thoughtful half-smile on the lips covered with a gentle gun, victoriously and gently looking at him with his disturbing eyes.
Just because she was not alive, she was more beautiful than she could be alive.
“I’m very happy,” he suddenly heard the voice, obviously addressed to him, the voice of the same woman he loved on the portrait.
Anna came out to him because of the trembling, and Levin saw the same woman portrayed in a dark, multi-colored blue dress in the half-light of the cabin, not in that position, not with that expression, but at the same height of beauty she was captured by the artist on the portrait.
She was less brilliant in reality, but there was something new and attractive that was not on the portrait.
She came up to him without hiding her joy to see him.
And in the tranquillity with which she stretched him a small and energetic hand and introduced him to Warkuev and pointed to the red and beautiful girl who was immediately sitting behind the job, calling her her a puppet, there were familiar and pleasant to Levina the receptions of a woman of great light, always quiet and natural.
- Very, very pleased, - she repeated, and in her mouth for Levin these simple words somehow got a special meaning. “I know and love you for a long time, and in friendship with Steve and your wife... I knew her very little time, but she left in me the impression of a beautiful flower, that’s a flower.
She will soon be a mother.
She spoke freely and untouchably, sometimes translating her eyes from Levin to her brother, and Levin felt that the impression he made was good, and he immediately became easy, simple and pleasant with her, as if he knew her from childhood.
“We and Ivan Petrovich were placed in the office of Alexei,” she said, answering Stephan Arkadic’s question whether you can smoke, then to smoke, and, looking at Levin, instead of asking, is he smoking? She moved a carpenter to her and pulled out a pachitosque.
How is your health today? I asked her brother.
Nothing.
Nervous as usual.
Is it not true, unusually good? - said Stephan Arkadić, noticing that Levin was looking at the portrait.
I didn’t see a better portrait.
It looks unusual, right? Worm said.
Lewin looked from the portrait to the original.
A special glow illuminated Anna’s face as she felt his sight on herself.
Levin reddened and, to hide his trouble, he wanted to ask if she had seen Darya Alexandrovna for a long time; but at the same time, Anna said:
We talked with Ivan Petrovich about the last paintings of Vashchenkov.
Have you seen them?
“Yes, I saw,” Levin replied.
“But the fault, I broke you, you wanted to say...
Lewin asked if she had seen Dolly a long time ago.
- Yesterday she was with me, she was very angry about Grisha at high school.
The Latin teacher seemed unfair to him.
I saw the pictures. I didn’t like them very much, and Levin returned to the conversation she started.
Levin had no longer spoken with the crafty attitude to the matter he talked to this morning.
Every word in his conversation had a special meaning.
And talking to her was pleasant, even more pleasant to listen to her.
Anna spoke not only naturally, intelligently, but intelligently and negligently, not attributing any price to her thoughts, but giving a greater price to the thoughts of the interlocutor.
The conversation came about a new direction of art, about a new illustration of the Bible by a French artist.
Workuev accused the artist of realism brought to cruelty.
Levin said that the French brought conditionality in art like no one and that therefore they see a special merit in returning to realism.
In the fact that they no longer lie, they see poetry.
None of the intelligent things Levi’s said had ever given him such a pleasure as this.
Anna's face suddenly all glowed when she suddenly appreciated that thought.
She laughed.
“I laugh,” she said, “how you laugh when you see a very similar portrait.
What you said perfectly characterizes French art now, and painting, and even literature: Zola, Daudet.
But it may always happen that they build their conceptions from invented, conditional figures, and then - all combinations are made, invented figures are tired, and they begin to invent more natural, fair figures.
This is completely true! He said Vorkov.
So you were in the club? She turned to her brother.
“Yes, this is a woman!” Lewin thought, forgotten and persistently looking at her beautiful moving face, which now suddenly completely changed.
Levin did not hear what she spoke, turning to her brother, but he was surprised by changing her expression.
Before so beautiful in her tranquility, her face suddenly expressed strange curiosity, anger and pride.
But it lasted only one minute.
She felt as if she remembered something.
“Well, yes, no one is interested,” she said, “Please order the tea in the drawing room.
The girl got up and went out.
So, did she pass the exam? Asked by Stepan Arkadić.
and beautifully.
A very capable girl and a gentle character.
It ends with that you will love her more than yours.
This is the man speaks.
There is no more and no less in love.
I love my daughter with one love, and her with another.
“I’m saying to Anna Arkadievna,” Warkuev said, “that if she would put at least one hundred of that energy on the general matter of the education of Russian children that she put on this English woman, Anna Arkadievna would do a great, useful thing.
What you want, I couldn’t.
Count Aleksei Kirillich greatly encouraged me (the words of Count Aleksei Kirillich were spoken, she looked gently at Levin, and he unwillingly responded to her with a respectful and affirmative view) - he encouraged me to take school in the village.
I went several times.
They are very nice, but I couldn’t attach to that matter.
You say energy.
Energy is based on love. Love cannot be commanded.
I loved this girl, I don’t know why.
She looked at Levine again.
And her smile and look—all told him that she only addressed her speech to him, cared for his opinion and, at the same time, knowing that they understand each other.
“I fully understand it,” Levin replied. "It is not possible to put a heart on the school and at all on such institutions, and I think this is why these philanthropic institutions always give so little results.
She silenced and then smiled. “Yes, yes,” she confirmed. I could never.
Je n'ai pas le coeur assez large to love the whole room with ugly girls.
Cela ne m'a jamais reussi.
There are so many women who make it a social position.
And now more, she said with a sad, confident expression, appearing to her brother, but obviously only to Levin. Now that I need a job, I can’t. - And suddenly swallowed (Levin realized that she swallowed on herself for what she said about herself), she changed the conversation. “I know about you,” she said to Levine, “that you are a bad citizen, and I defended you as I could.
How did you protect me?
Considering the attacks.
Do you like tea? She got up and took a saffian book in her hand.
“Give me, Anna Arkadievna,” Warkuev said, indicating the book. It is very worth it.
No, it’s all so untouched.
- I told him, - Stephan Arkadić turned to his sister, pointing to Levin.
I did wrongly.
My writing is like the baskets from the cutting which she had sold to me, once, Lisa Merzalova from the islands.
She led sharks in this society, and she turned to Levin. And these unhappy people did miracles of patience.
And Levin saw another feature in this woman that he so unusually liked.
Besides wisdom, grace, beauty, there was truth.
She did not want to hide all the gravity of her situation.
When she said this, she breathed, and her face, suddenly accepting a strict expression, as if it was shining.
With this expression on the face she was even more beautiful than before; but that expression was new; it was beyond that glowing happiness and giving happiness the circle of expressions that were captured by the artist on the portrait.
Levin looked again on the portrait and on her figure, as she, taking the hand of her brother, walked with him into the high doors, and felt to her the delicacy and regret that surprised him himself.
She asked Levin and Vorkuev to go to the living room, and she left to talk about something with her brother.
“On divorce, on Vronsky, on what he does in the club, on me?” He thought Levin.
And he was so worried about what she talked to Stephan Arcadeic, that he almost did not listen to what Vorkuev told him about the merits of the Anna Arcadeic novel for children.
After the tea continued the same pleasant, full content conversation.
Not only was there no one minute to have to find the subject to talk, but, on the contrary, it felt that you were unable to say what you wanted, and you were willing to hold up listening to what the other said.
And everything they said, not only she herself, but Vorkuyev, Stephan Arkadić, all received, as it seemed to Levin, thanks to her attention and remarks special importance.
Following an interesting conversation, Levin continued to love her—and her beauty, and her mind, and her education, and together her simplicity and mindfulness.
He listened, spoke, and all the time thought about her, about her inner life, trying to guess her feelings.
And, before so strictly condemning her, he now, by some strange course of thoughts, justified her and, together, regretted and feared that Vronsky didn’t fully understand her.
At the eleven hour, when Stephan Arkadić got up to leave (Vorkuev had gone before), Levin seemed to have just arrived.
Levin also stood up with regret.
“Goodbye,” she said, holding him in the hand and looking at him in the eyes with an attractive look. I am glad that the glace is rompue.
She pulled out her hand and touched.
Tell your wife that I love her like before, and that if she can’t forgive me my position, I wish she will never forgive me.
To forgive, I have to survive what I have survived, and God has to save her from that.
“Of course, yes, I’m going to give... the red,” said Levin.
“What a wonderful, cute and sad woman,” he thought, going out with Stepan Arkadić on the frozen air.
“I told you,” Stepan Arkadić told him, seeing that Levin was completely defeated.
“Yes,” Levin thoughtfully answered, “an unusual woman!
Not that is smart, but the heart is amazing.
Very sad for her!
Now, God will give, soon everything will be done.
Well, it’s not to judge ahead,” said Stepan Arkadić, opening the doors of the car. Goodbye, we are not on the way.
Not ceasing to think about Anna, about all the simplest conversations that had been with her, and remembering all the details of her face expression, getting more and more into her position and feeling complaint to her, Levin came home.
At Kuzma's home he told Levin that Katerina Alexandrovna was healthy, that the sisters had just left them recently, and he sent two letters.
Levin immediately, in front, so that he then didn’t have fun, read them.
One was from Sokolov, the narrative. Sokolov wrote that wheat cannot be sold, they only give five and a half rubles, and the money is more to take.
Another letter was from my sister. She accused him of not being done yet.
“Well, we’ll sell for five and a half when they don’t give more,” Levin immediately resolved with unusual ease the first question, before it seemed so difficult to him.
“It’s amazing how it’s busy all the time here,” he thought of the second letter.
He felt guilty before his sister for not doing what she asked him.
“I didn’t go to the court again, but it was right now.”
And when he decided that he would do it tomorrow, he went to his wife.
Going to her, Levin quickly recalled the whole day spent.
All the events of the day were conversations: conversations he heard and participated in.
All the conversations were about such items that, if he was alone and in the village, he would never do, and here they were very interesting.
And all the conversations were good; only in two places was not quite good.
One thing he said about the shock, the other — that was something not that in the gentle regret he experienced to Anne.
Levin caught his wife sad and missing.
The three sisters would have a very fun lunch, but then they were waiting for him, waiting for him, everyone was bored, the sisters went away, and she remained alone.
What did you do? She asked, looking in her eyes, something suspiciously bright.
But in order not to prevent him from telling everything, she hidden her attention and listened to his story about how he spent the evening with a favourable smile.
I was so glad I met Vronsky.
It was easy and easy to be with him.
You understand, now I will try never to see him, but so that this discomfort would be over, he said, and remembering that he, trying never to see him, immediately went to Anne, he turned red. “Behold, we say that the people are drinking; I don’t know who is drinking more, the people or our conspiracy; the people even for the holidays, but...
But Kitty was not interested in discussing how people drink. She saw that he was red and wanted to know why.
Well, then where did you go?
- Steve terribly encouraged me to go to Anne Arkadievne.
And, saying this, Levin reddened even more, and his doubts about whether he did good or bad when he went to Anne were finally resolved.
He knew that it shouldn’t be done.
Kitty's eyes were especially opened and glowed in the name of Anna, but when she made an effort on herself, she hid her excitement and deceived him.
She just said.
You will not be angry because I’ve gone.
Steve asked, and Dolly wanted it, — continued Levin.
“No,” she said, but in her eyes he saw an effort over himself, not promising him anything good.
“She’s a very cute, very, very sad, a good woman,” he said, telling about Anna, her work, and what she said to say.
“Yes, of course, she’s very sad,” Kitty said when he died. From whom did you receive the letter?
He told her and, believing her a quiet tone, went dressing.
When he returned, he stood Kitty on the same chair.
When he approached her, she looked at him and caught.
What? What? He asked, knowing what.
You fell in love with this foolish woman, she surrounded you.
I saw in your eyes...
Yes yes!
What can come out of this?
You in the club drank, drank, played and then went... to whom?
No, we go...
Tomorrow I will go.
For a long time, Levin couldn’t calm his wife.
Finally, he calmed her, only acknowledging that the feeling of regret in connection with wine hit him and he was subjected to Anna's smart influence and that he would avoid her.
One thing he most honestly acknowledged was that, living so long in Moscow, after a single conversation, food and drink, he shakened.
They talked until three in the night. At only three hours they reconciled so much that they could sleep.
Having guests, Anna, not sitting, began to walk back and forward in the room.
Although she unconsciously (as she acted in this recent time with regard to all the young men) all night did everything possible to excite in Levine a sense of love for herself, and although she knew that she achieved this, as much as possible with regard to a married honest man and one night, and although he liked her very much (although the sharp difference, from the point of view of men, between Vronsky and Levin, she, as a woman, saw in them the most common, for which Kitty loved both Vronsky and Levin), as soon as he came out of the room, she stopped thinking about it.
One thought and one thought persecuted it in different ways.
“If I act so on others, on this family, loving person, why is he so cold in me? And not that cold, he loves me, I know it. But something new now divides us.
Why is it not all night?
He told Steve that he could not leave Yashvina and that he had to watch his game. What is the child Yashwin?
But let’s assume that it is true.
He never tells the truth. But there is another truth in this.
He is happy to show me that he has other duties.
I know it, I agree with it.
But why prove it to me?
He wants to prove to me that his love for me should not interfere with his freedom.
But I don’t need evidence, I need love.
He should have understood the gravity of my life here, in Moscow.
Do I live?
I’m not alive, but I’m waiting for a breakdown that all goes away and goes away.
No answer again!
And Steve says he can’t go to Alexey Alexandrovich.
I can’t write more.
I can't do anything, I can't start anything, I can't change anything, I restrain myself, I wait, I'm inventing fun - a family of English, writing, reading, but it's all just a trick, it's all the same morphin.
He should regret me," she said, feeling the tears of regret about herself appearing in her eyes.
She heard the twisting call of Vronsky and quickly dropped those tears, and not only dropped her tears, but she sat to the lamp and opened the book, becoming quiet.
It had to be shown to him that she was unhappy with the fact that he didn’t come back, as he promised, only unhappy, but not to show him her anger and, most importantly, regret of herself.
She could regret herself, but not her.
She didn’t want to struggle, accused him of he wanted to struggle, but unintentionally she became a struggle position.
Have you missed it? He said, I am joyful and joyful to come to her. What a terrible passion – a game!
“No, I didn’t miss it, and I’ve learned not to miss it for a long time.
He was also Levin.
They wanted to go to you.
How did you like Levin? He said he was sitting under her.
very much.
They have recently left.
What did Yashwin do?
He was in victory, 17,000.
I called him. He had already gone.
But he returned again and now in loss.
So why did you stay? She asked, suddenly lifting her eyes.
The expression of her face was cold and unpleasant. You said to Steve that you will stay to take Yashvina. And you left him.
The same expression of cold willingness to fight was expressed on his face.
First, I did not ask him to give you anything; second, I never say the truth. And the most important thing, I wanted to stay and stay,” he said cloudy. Anna, why and why? He said after a minute of silence, swallowing to her, and opened his hand, hoping that she would put his own in it.
She was pleased with this appeal to delicacy.
But some strange power of evil prevented her from giving up to her attraction, as if the conditions of struggle prevented her from undergoing.
You wanted to stay and stay.
You do everything you want.
But why do you tell me this?
For what? She said, getting more and more hot. Does anyone complain about your rights?
But you want to be right, and be right.
His hand closed, he turned away, and his face took even more than before, a firm expression.
“For you, this is a matter of retardation,” she said, looking at it carefully and suddenly finding the name of this irritating expression of her face, it is retardation. For you, the question is whether you will remain a winner with me, and for me... Again, she’s regretted, and she’s almost not crying. If you knew what it was for me! When I feel like now that you are hostile, you are hostile to me if you knew what it meant! If you knew how close I was to misfortune in these minutes, how I’m afraid, I’m afraid of myself!—And she turned, hiding her crying.
So what are we? He said, scared before the expression of her despair and again turned to her and took her hand and kissed her. For what?
Are you looking for entertainment outside of home?
Can I avoid women’s society?
And even! She said.
Tell me what I have to do to get you dead.
“I am ready to do everything to make you happy,” he said, touched by her despair, “what I will not do to save you from the anger of someone like now, Anna! He said.
No, nothing and nothing. She said. I don’t know if life is lonely or nervous.
Well, let’s not talk.
What is running? You didn’t tell me, she asked, trying to hide the celebration of victory that was still on her side.
He asked for dinner and began to tell her the details of the running; but in the tone, in his sights, increasingly cold, she saw that he did not forgive her victory, that the feeling of tenderness with which she fought was again established in it.
He was heavier to her than before, as if he was scared of being obedient. And she, remembering the words that gave her victory, namely, "I'm close to a terrible misfortune and I'm afraid of myself," realized that the weapon was dangerous and that it could not be used another time.
And she felt that, next to the love that connects them, the spirit of a struggle was established between them, which she couldn’t throw out neither from him nor, even less, from her heart.
There are no conditions that a person could not get used to, especially if he sees that everyone around him lives the same way.
Levin would not believe three months ago that he could sleep quietly in the conditions in which he was now; that, living an unthinkable, unthinkable life, with life over the means, after drunk (and he could not name what was in the club), uncomplicated friendship with a man who once was in love with his wife, and even more uncomplicated journey to a woman that could not be otherwise called lost, and after enthusiasm for his wife and the anger of his wife, that under these conditions he could sleep quietly.
But under the influence of fatigue, sleepless night and drunk wine, he slept strongly and calmly.
At 5 a.m. the screen of the open door awakened him.
He jumped up and looked.
Kitty was not on the bed under him.
But there was a light moving behind the hill, and he heard her steps.
What? What? He spoke in request. The Kitty!
“Nothing,” she said, with a candle in her hand coming out of the ceiling. “I was unhealthy,” she said, smiling with a sweet and significant smile.
What? It started, it started? He spoke scaredly. - He had to send, and he quickly began to dress up.
“No, no,” she said, smiling and holding her hand. Probably nothing.
I was unhealthy a little.
But now passed.
And when she came to bed, she tightened the candle, slept and silenced.
Although he was suspicious of her silence as if it was a repressed breath, and most of all the expression of a special delicacy and excitement with which she, coming out of the crossing, told him “nothing”, he so wanted to sleep that he was just asleep.
Only then he recalled the silence of her breath and understood everything that was happening in her dear, sweet soul, while she, without shaking, waiting for the greatest event in the life of a woman, was lying under him.
At seven a.m. he woke up by touching his hand to his shoulder and a quiet scream.
She seemed to have fought between the regret to wake him up and the desire to talk to him.
The bones, don’t be afraid.
Nothing. But it seems...
We need to send it to the Petroleum.
The candle was burned again.
She was sitting on the bed and held in her hand the binding she was doing the last days.
Please don’t be afraid, nothing.
I'm not afraid at all - when she saw his scared face, she said and pushed his hand to her chest, then to her lips.
He quickly jumped up, not feeling himself and not leaving her eyes, dressed a dress and stopped, all looking at her.
He had to go, but he couldn’t get away from her sight. He didn’t love her face, didn’t know her expression, her sight, but he never saw her like that.
How ugly and terrible he seemed to himself, remembering her yesterday’s anger, before her, what she was now!
Her shrinking face, surrounded by soft hair from the bottom of the night, glowed with joy and determination.
Unless there was little unnaturality and conditionality in Kitty's general character, Levin was still surprised by what was naked now before him, when suddenly all the cover was removed and the core of her soul was shining in her eyes.
And in this simplicity and nakedness she, the one he loved, was even more visible.
She smiled and looked at him; but suddenly her arms drowned, and she lifted her head, and quickly approached him, took him for her hand, and all clinged to him, giving him its hot breath.
She suffered as if she complained of her suffering.
And in the first minute it seemed that he was guilty.
But in her sight there was a delicacy that said that she not only does not blame him, but loves for those suffering.
“If not me, who is guilty?” He thought unintentionally, finding the guilty of these suffering to punish him; but the guilty was not there.
She suffered, complained, and celebrated these suffering, and joined them, and loved them.
He saw something beautiful happening in her heart, but what? He couldn’t understand.
It was above his understanding.
I sent it to my mom.
And you take the train to the Lissabon Petroleum...
The bones!
Nothing, it passed.
She left him and called him.
Go now, Pasha is coming.
I have nothing.
And Levin was surprised to see that she took the bond that she brought in the night, and again began to bind.
As Levin went out into one door, he heard a girl entering the other.
He stopped at the door and heard Kitty give detailed orders to the girl and began to move the bed with her.
He was dressed and while he was putting horses, because there were no carriers yet. He fled again into the bedroom and not on the chickens, but on the wings, as he seemed.
Two girls worriedly restored something in the bedroom.
Kitty walked and swallowed, quickly swallowing the spots, and ordered.
I am going to the doctor now.
I’m going to go to Petroleum, but I’m going to go. Do you need something?
And to Dolly?
She looked at him, obviously not listening to what he said.
Yes yes.
Go, go, she quickly spoke, swallowed and wrapped on him with her hand.
He had already gone out to the living room, as suddenly a sad, immediately silent stone broke out of the bedroom.
He stopped and could not understand for a long time.
“Yes, that’s she,” he said to himself and, holding his head, flew down.
God forgiveness! Sorry, help! — he said suddenly the words that suddenly came to his mouth.
And he, the unbeliever, did not repeat these words with one mouth.
Now, at that moment, he knew that all not only his doubts, but that incapacity of mind to believe, which he knew in himself, did not prevent him from addressing God.
It all now, like dust, landed out of his soul.
To whom he was to address, rather than to whose hands he felt himself, his soul and his love?
The horse was not yet ready, but, feeling in himself a special tension of physical forces and attention to what was going to be done so that he did not lose a minute, he, not waiting for the horse, went out on foot and ordered Kuzma to pursue himself.
In the corner he met a hurry night carrier.
On the small sandals, in the barhat salad, bound with a plate, Lisaveta Petrovna was sitting.
“Glory to God, glory to God!” He spoke, with enthusiasm to know her, now having a serious, even strict expression, a small white face.
Without ordering the carrier to stop, he fled back next to her.
That is 2 hours. No more, she said. You’ll stop Peter Dmitry, but don’t rush him.
Take opium in the pharmacy.
Do you think that can be well?
Lord, please and help! Levin spoke when he saw his horse coming out of the door.
Hoping in the san next to Kuzma, he ordered to go to the doctor.
The doctor didn’t get up yet, and Lakey said that “they slept late and didn’t order to wake up, but they’ll get up soon.”
Lakey cleaned the lamp glasses and seemed very busy with it.
This attention of Lakey to the glass and indifference to what was done with Levin first surprised him, but immediately thinking, he realized that no one knows and is not obliged to know his feelings and that moreover it is necessary to act calmly, thoughtfully and determined to break through this wall of indifference and to his goal.
"Don't rush and don't miss anything," Levin said to himself, feeling the increasing and greater rise of physical strength and attention to everything that was to be done.
Knowing that the doctor was not still standing up, Levin from the various plans that had been presented to him, stopped on the following: Let us go with a note to another doctor and go to the pharmacy with opium, and if, when he returns, the doctor is not still standing up, then, by purchasing a laquea or forcibly, if he does not agree, wake up the doctor in anything.
In the pharmacy, the cleaning supervisor with the same indifference with which the lacky cleansed the glass, printed a cloud of powder for the waiting cushion and refused in opium.
Trying not to rush and not to get hot, naming the names of the doctor and the nurse and explaining why opium is needed, Levin began to convince him.
The inspector asked the German council whether to release, and, after receiving the agreement due to the crossing, got a bubble, a crossing, slowly flushed from a big to a small, attached a label, sealed, despite the request of Levin not to do so, and wanted to do so.
This Levin was no longer able to endure; he firmly broke out the butterflies from his hands and fled into the large glass doors.
The doctor didn’t stand up yet, and the lacky, now busy with the coat, refused to wake up.
Levin, not rushing, got a ten rubles paper and, slowly speaking the words, but not losing time, gave him a paper and explained that Peter Dmitrych (as great and significant now seemed to Levin before so unimportant Peter Dmitrych!) He promised to be at all times that he probably won’t get angry, and that he should wake up now.
Lakey agreed, went up and asked Levin to the reception room.
Levin was heard behind the door, coughing, walking, washing, and something said by the doctor.
Three minutes passed; Levine seemed to have passed more than an hour.
He could not wait anymore.
Peter Dmitrych and Peter Dmitrych. He spoke with a praying voice to the open door. For God, forgive me.
Accept me as it is.
More than two hours.
Now and now! The voice responded, and Levin was surprised to hear that the doctor said it with a smile.
For one minute...
and now.
It lasted two minutes until the doctor was wearing the shoes, and two minutes until the doctor was wearing the dress and shaving his head.
- Peter Dmitrych! - the sad voice began again was Levin, but at that time the doctor came out, dressed and dressed.
“These people have no conscience,” Levin thought. “Happy until we die!”
Good Morning! - giving him the hand and just irritating him with his calmness, the doctor told him. Do not rush.
and s?
Trying to be as accurate as possible, Levin began to tell all the unnecessary details about the situation of his wife, constantly interrupting his story with requests for the doctor to go with him right now.
Do not rush.
You do not know. I don’t need it, but I promised it and I’ll probably come.
But no hurry.
Do you want coffee, please?
Levin looked at him, asking with a look if he laughed upon him.
But the doctor didn’t think to laugh.
“I know, I know,” the doctor said with a smile, “I am a family man; but we, our husband, are the most sad people in these moments.
I have a patient, so her husband always escapes to the cabin.
What do you think, Peter Dmitry?
Do you think that can be well-being?
All data for a well-being outcome.
Are you going to come now? Levin said, with evil look at the servant who brought the coffee.
After an hour.
No, because of God!
Take the coffee to drink.
The doctor took a coffee.
Both were silent.
But the Turks are struggling strongly.
Did you read yesterday’s telegram? - said the doctor, throwing the bulk.
No, I can’t! Lewin said, jumping up. Will you be in a quarter of a hour?
After half an hour.
A honest word?
When Levin returned home, he went out with the princess, and they came together to the door of the bedroom.
The princess had tears on her eyes, and her hands dropped.
When she saw Levin, she understood him and cried.
“Well, the soul of Lisabetta Petrovna,” she said, holding the hand that came out to them with the bright and worried face of Lisabetta Petrovna.
“It’s okay,” she said, “take her to sleep. It will be easier.
From the moment he woke up and understood what it was about, Levin prepared to, without thinking, without predicting anything, shrinking all the thoughts and feelings, firmly, without distraining his wife, but, on the contrary, calming andining her courage, transfer what is ahead of him.
Not allowing himself even to think about what will be, what will end, judging by questions about how long it normally lasts, Levin in his imagination prepared to suffer and hold his heart in the hands of five hours, and he thought it was possible.
But when he returned from the doctor and saw her suffering again, he began to repeat more and more, “Lord, forgive me, help me,” to breathe up and raise his head up; and felt the fear that he would not endure it, cry out or escape. He was so painful.
Only an hour passed.
But after that hour passed another hour, two, three, all five hours, which he placed for himself the longest period of patience, and the situation was all the same; and he all suffered, because there was nothing more to do than to suffer, every minute thinking that he has reached the last limits of patience and that his heart is now breaking out of compassion.
But the minutes, the hours, and the hours passed, and the feelings of his suffering and horror grew and stressed even more.
All those ordinary conditions of life, without which nothing can be imagined, no longer existed for Levin.
He lost the consciousness of time.
Those minutes, those minutes, when she called him to her, and he kept her swallowed, then pressing with an unusual force, then pulling his hand, seemed to him hours, then the hours seemed to him minutes.
He was surprised when Lisbeth Petrovna asked him to burn a candle behind the wheels and he learned that it was five hours in the evening.
If he was told that it was only 10 a.m., he would not be surprised.
Where he was at that time, he knew as little as when it was.
He saw her inflamed, so disturbing and suffering, so smiling and calming his face.
He saw both the princess, red, stressed, with the broken leaves of sitting hair and in the tears that she grew strongly, bite her lips, he saw both Dolly, and the doctor who smoked thick papyruses, and Lisaveta Petrovna, with a firm, determined and calming face, and the old prince who walked through the hall with a dark face.
But how they came and went out, where they were, he didn’t know.
The princess was with the doctor in the bedroom, then in the office where a covered table was felt; then it was not she, but Dolly.
Then Levin remembered that he was sent somewhere.
He was sent to carry the table and the sofa.
He hardly did this, thinking that it needed it for her, and then only learned that it was he prepared for himself a nighttime.
Then he was sent to the doctor to the office to ask something.
The doctor answered and then talked about the disturbances in Duma.
Then he was sent to the bedroom to the princess to bring a picture in a silver gold shirt, and he with the old mountain princess laid on the closet to deliver and broke the lamp, and the mountain princess calmed him about his wife and the lamp, and he brought the picture and placed it in the heads of Kitty, carefully drawing it for the pants.
But where, when and why it was, he didn’t know.
He also didn’t understand why the princess took him in the hand and, sadly looking at him, asked to calm, and Dolly ordered him to eat and brought him out of the room, and even the doctor seriously and with compassion looked at him and offered a drop.
He knew and felt only that what was happening was like what was happening a year ago in the hotel of the Governor's city on the edge of the death of brother Nicholas.
But it was bad, it was joy.
But both that evil and that joy were equally beyond all the usual conditions of life, were in this usual life as hole, through which something higher appeared.
And the committing was equally heavy and painful, and the soul was equally incomprehensible when it looked at this higher to such a height that she had never understood before, and where the reason had no longer singed after it.
“Lord, forgive and help,” he continued, despite such a long and seeming complete isolation, feeling that he addressed God just as confident and simple as he was in childhood and early youth.
All this time he had two separate moods.
One — outside her presence, with a doctor who smoked one thick papyrus after another and swallowed them around the end of the full pepper, with Dolly and with the prince, where it was about lunch, about politics, about the disease of Mary Petrovna and where Levin suddenly for a minute completely forgot what was happening, and felt accurately awake, and another mood — in her presence, at her head, where the heart wanted to break and everything didn’t break from compassion, and he continued to pray to God.
And every time he was removed from the minute of forgiveness by the cry that came out of the bedroom, he fell under the same strange misconception that in the first myut found on him; every time he heard the cry, he jumped, fled to justify, remembered the way that he was not guilty, and he wanted to defend, to help.
But when he looked at her, he again saw that he could not help, and came in horror and said, “Lord, forgive and help.”
And the further the time went, the stronger the two emotions became: the more calm, completely forgotten, he became outside of her presence, and the more painful became her suffering and the feeling of impotence before them.
He jumped, wanted to escape somewhere, and fled to her.
Sometimes, when she called him again and again, he accused her.
But when he saw her obedient, smiling face and heard the words, “I have tortured you,” he accused God, but remembering God, he immediately asked for forgiveness and forgiveness.
He didn’t know if it was late or early.
The candles are all burning.
Dolly was just in the office and offered the doctor to lie.
Levin sat, listening to the stories of the doctor about the charlatan-magnetizer, and looked at the sand of his papyrus.
There was a time of rest, and he forgot.
He completely forgot what was happening now.
He listened to the doctor’s story and understood it.
Suddenly there was a scream, nothing like it.
The scream was so scary that Levin didn’t even jump, but without breathing, he looked at the doctor scaredly. The doctor slept his head to the side, listening, and approvedly smiled.
Everything was so unusual that nothing hit Levin.
“Well, it’s right,” he thought and kept sitting.
Who’s this scream?
He jumped up, fled into the bedroom on the chickens, crossed Lisaveta Petrovna, the princess, and went to his place, at the headquarters. The cry was silent, but something changed now.
He did not see, did not understand, did not want to see and understand. But he saw this on the face of Lisabetta Petrovna: the face of Lisabetta Petrovna was strict and bright and still so determined, although her eyebrows were slightly imitated and her eyes were strictly targeted on Kitty.
The inflamed, tortured face of Kitty with a tightened face of hair was turned to him and sought his sight.
He raised his hands for him.
Taking his cold hands with sweating hands, she began to press them to her face.
Don’t go, don’t go!
I am not afraid, I am not afraid. She speaks quickly. Mother, take the clothes.
They interfere with me.
Are you not afraid?
Soon, soon, Lisbeth Petrovna...
She spoke quickly and wanted to smile. But suddenly her face was distorted, she pulled him away from herself.
No, it is terrible!
I will die, I will die!
She screamed, and again he heard the same no-like scream.
Levin caught his head and escaped from the room.
Nothing, nothing, everything is fine. I talked to him after Dolly.
But no matter what they said, he knew that now everything was dead.
He stood in the neighboring room and heard someone never heard a whisper, and he knew it was crying as it was before Kitty.
He did not want a child for a long time. He hated this child.
He didn’t even want her life now, he only wanted the end of these terrible suffering.
The Doctor! What is this?
What is it?
My God! He said, holding the doctor's hand.
“It’s over,” said the doctor. And the doctor’s face was so serious when he said this that Levin realized it ends in the meaning – it is dying.
I don’t remember, he fled into the bedroom.
The first thing he saw was the face of Lisaveta Petrovna.
It was even more narrow and stricter.
There was no Kitty's face.
In the place where it was before, there was something terrible and in terms of tension and the sound that came out there.
He fell with his head to the tree of the bed, feeling his heart was broken.
The terrible scream did not climb, it became even more horrible and, as if it came to the last edge of horror, suddenly silenced.
Levin didn’t believe his hearing, but it could not be doubted: the cry was silent, and a quiet wrath, a shell and a hurry breath was heard, and her interrupting, alive and gentle, happy voice said quietly, “It’s finished.”
He raised his head.
Unfortunately laying her hands on the cover, unusually beautiful and quiet, she silently looked at him and wanted and couldn’t smile.
And suddenly from the mysterious and terrible, unthinking world in which he lived these twenty-two hours, Levin immediately felt transferred into the old, ordinary world, but now shining with such a new light of happiness that he did not tolerate it.
The strings were all broken. The rays and tears of joy, which he did not foresee, stood up in him with such a force that all his body flattered, which for a long time prevented him from speaking.
When he fell on his knees in front of the bed, he kept his wife’s hand in front of his lips and kissed her, and this hand with the weak movement of his fingers responded to his kiss.
And in the midst there, in the feet of the bed, in the hands of Lisabetta Petrovna, as a fire over the lamp, the life of a human being, which has never been before, and which will also, with the same right, with the same significance for himself, live and bear the same.
is alive!
live!
Another boy!
Do not worry! Levin heard the voice of Lisabetta Petrovna, whose hand dropped the back of the child.
Mom, is it right? The voice of Kitty.
The princess responded to her.
And in the midst of silence, as an undoubted answer to the mother’s question, the voice was heard quite different from all the speaking voices in the room.
It was a courageous, courageous, who did not want to understand the scream of the new human being that came from.
Before that Levin had been told that Kitty was dead, and that he died with her, and that they had children of angels, and that God was in front of them, he would not be surprised; but now, returning to the world of reality, he had made a great effort to understand that she was alive, healthy, and that a so desperate creature is his son.
Kitty was alive and the suffering ended. And he was inexpressively happy.
He knew that and was very happy with it.
But the child?
Where, why and who is he?
He could not understand, he could not get used to that thought.
It seemed to him something overwhelming, an excess to which he could not get used to for a long time.
At 10 a.m. the old prince, Sergey Ivanovich and Stephan Arkadić sat at Levin and, talking about the parent, talked about foreign objects.
Levin listened to them and, unwillingly in these conversations, recalling the past, what was before this morning, recalled himself as he was yesterday before this.
A hundred years have passed since then.
He felt at some untouchable height from which he was carefully down so that he didn’t hurt those he talked to.
He spoke and continued to think about his wife, about the details of her current state and about the son to whom he sought to teach himself.
The whole female world, which received a new, unknown meaning for him after he married, now rose so high in his concepts that he could not hug him with imagination.
He listened to the talk about yesterday’s lunch at the club and thought, “What is now done with her, is she asleep?
How to her?
What does she think?
Does the son of Dmitry cry?”
And in the middle of the conversation, in the middle of the phrase, he jumped up and went out of the room.
“They came to tell me if they could come to her,” said the prince.
— Well, now — answered Levin and, without stopping, went to her.
She didn’t sleep, but spoke quietly with her mother, making plans for future crossings.
Clothed, wrapped, in a shirt with something blue, she stretched her hands on the cover, she lie on her back and, meeting him with a look, with a look attracted to herself.
Her look, and so bright, was even brighter as he approached her.
On her face was the same change from the earth to the unterrest, which occurs on the face of the dead; but there is forgiveness, there is encounter.
Again, the excitement, similar to what he experienced in the minute of birth, came to his heart.
She took his hand and asked if he was sleeping.
He couldn’t answer and turned, convincing himself in his weakness.
I’ve forgotten the bone! She told him. And I am so well now.
She looked at him, but suddenly her expression changed.
“Give me it,” she said when she heard the baby’s scream. - Give, Lizaveta Petrovna, and he will see.
“Well, let the pope look,” said Lizaveta Petrovna, lifting up and lifting up something red, strange and vibrant. And Lisbeth Petrovna put this vibrant and red on the bed, began to stretch and turn the child; with one finger lifting and turning it and somewhat sleeping.
Levin, looking at this little sad creature, made a foolish effort to find in his soul some signs of patriotic feelings to him.
He only felt ugly to him.
But when he was naked and melted with thin-tunned gloves, feet, saffranes, also with his fingers, and even with a big finger that was different from others, and when he saw how, precisely, the soft gloves, Lissabon Petrovna pressed these cracked gloves, locking them in the plotted clothes, he found such regret to this being and such fear that it would hurt him that he held it for his hand.
Elizabeth Petrovna laughed.
Don’t be afraid, don’t be afraid!
When the child was kidnapped and turned into a solid coat, Lisbeth Petrovna overcame him, as if proud of her work, and turned away so that Levin could see his son in all his beauty.
Kitty, not leaving her eyes, cushed, looked there. — Give it, give it! — she said and even got up:
What you are, Catherine Alexandrovna, this is not such a move!
Sorry, I will give up.
Let us see how young we are!
And Lisbeth Petrovna raised to Levin on one hand (the other only by the fingers supported the climbing tape) this strange, climbing and hiding her head beyond the edge of the pencil red creature.
But there were also the nose, the eyelids and the moisturizing lips.
A beautiful child! - said Lisaveta Petrovna.
Levin breathed with anger.
This beautiful child inserted him only a sense of uglyness and regret.
It was not the feeling he expected.
He turned up until Lisbeth Petrovna arranged him to an unusual chest.
Suddenly, the laughter caused him to raise his head.
That Kitty laughed.
The child took the chest.
Well enough, enough enough! “Lizaveta Petrovna spoke, but Kitty didn’t let him go.
He slept on her hands.
“Look now,” said Kitty, turning the child to him so that he could see him.
The old man suddenly smelled even more, and the child smelled.
Smiling and hardly holding the tears of compassion, Levin kissed his wife and went out of the dark room.
What he experienced to this little being was not exactly what he expected.
There was nothing joyful and joyful in this feeling; on the contrary, it was a new painful fear.
This was the awareness of a new area of vulnerability.
And this consciousness was so painful in the first time, the fear of not suffering this unhelpful being was so strong that because of it and invisibly there was a strange sense of meaningless joy and even pride that he experienced when the child cried.
Stephan Arkadic's affairs were in a bad situation.
The money for two-thirds of the forest was already survived, and, with a decade of 10 percent, he took the buyer almost everything forward for the last third.
The buyer was no longer giving money, especially that this winter, Daria Alexandrovna, for the first time directly declared the right to his estate, refused to sign up on the contract in receiving money for the last third of the forest.
All complaints went on the household expenses and on the payment of small untranslated debts.
There was no money at all.
This was unpleasant, unpleasant and shouldn’t have continued so, according to Stepan Arkadić.
The reason for this, according to him, was that he received too little complaints.
The place he occupied was obviously very good five years ago, but now it was not that.
Petrov, the director of the bank, received twelve thousand; Sventicki - a member of the company - received seventy thousand; Mitin, founding the bank, received fifty thousand.
“Obviously, I slept, and I was forgotten,” Stepan Arkadić thought about himself. And he began to listen, look and at the end of the winter looked at a very good place and led an attack on him, first from Moscow, through a tante, uncle, friends, and then, when the matter was mature, in the spring he went to St. Petersburg himself.
It was one of those places that now, in all sizes, from a thousand to fifty thousand per year complaints, became more than before there were hot loans; it was the place of a member of the committee of the joint agency of credit and mutual balance of southern railways and bank institutions.
This place, like all such places, required such enormous knowledge and activities that it was difficult to unite in one person.
And since there was no one that connects these qualities, it was better that an honest person occupies this place than an unfair person.
And Stephan Arkadić was not only a man honest (without emphasis), but he was an honest person (with emphasis), with the special meaning that in Moscow this word has when they say: an honest person, an honest writer, an honest magazine, an honest institution, an honest direction, and which means not only that a person or institution is not unfair, but they are also able in case to submit a spike to the government.
Stephan Arkadić was rotating in Moscow in those circles where this word was introduced, he considered himself an honest person there and therefore had more than others, the right to this place.
This place was given from seven to ten thousand a year, and Oblonsky could occupy it without leaving his treasure place.
It depended on two ministries, one lady and two Jews; and all of these people, although they were already prepared, Stephan Arkadic had to be seen in St. Petersburg.
In addition, Stephan Arkadić promised her sister Anna to seek from Karenina a decisive answer about the divorce.
And, asking Dolly for fifty rubles, he went to St. Petersburg.
Sitting in the cabinet of Karenin and listening to his project about the causes of the bad state of the Russian finances, Stephan Arkadić waited only minutes when he ended to talk about his case and about Anna.
“Yes, that’s very true,” he said, when Alexey Alexandrovich, drawing the pince-nez, without which he couldn’t read now, questioningly looked at the former shurin, it’s very true in the details, but yet the principle of our time is freedom.
“Yes, but I present a different principle that encompasses the principle of freedom,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, striking the word “encompassing” and wearing again the pince-nez to re-read to the listener the place where it was said.
And, picking over a beautifully written manuscript with huge fields, Alexey Alexandrovich re-read the convincing place.
"I don't want a protection system not for the benefit of individuals, but for the general good - and for the lower and for the higher classes the same," he said, over the pince-nez looking at Oblonsky. But they can’t understand this, they’re only busy with personal interests and are fascinated by phrases.
Stephan Arkadić knew that when Karenin began to talk about what they do and think, those who didn’t want to accept his projects and were the cause of all evil in Russia that was already close to the end; and therefore he willingly renounced now the principle of freedom and fully agreed.
Alexey Aleksandrovich was silent, thoughtfully listing his manuscript.
- Ah, on the other hand, - said Stepan Arkadić, - I would like to ask you in the event that you meet with Pomorsky, to tell him a word that I would very much like to take the opening place of a member of the commission from the joint agency of credit and mutual balance of the Southern Railways.
Stephan Arkadic's name of this place, so close to his heart, was already usual, and he, without mistake, quickly spoke it.
Alexey Aleksandrovich asked what was the activity of this new commission, and thought.
He understood whether there is anything contrary to his projects in the work of this commission.
But since the activity of this new institution was very complex and its projects covered a very large area, he could not immediately understand this and, removing the pince-nez, said:
No doubt, I can tell him; but why do you really want to take this place?
The complaint is good, up to nine thousand, and my funds are good.
“Nine thousand,” Aleksei Aleksandrovich repeated and sinked. The high figure of this complaint reminded him that, on this side, the alleged activity of Stepan Arkadić was contrary to the main sense of his projects, which always cloned to savings.
I find and write about this note that in our time these enormous complaints are signs of the false economic assiette of our administration.
How do you want? - said Stephan Arkadić. - Well, let’s put, the manager of the bank receives ten thousand, because he’s worth it.
The engineer is twenty thousand.
Live as you want!
I believe that complaint is a fee for the goods, and it must be subject to the law of claims and proposals.
If the appointment of the complaint deviates from this law, as, for example, when I see that two engineers, both equally knowledgeable and capable, are out of the institution, and one receives forty thousand, and the other is satisfied by two thousand; or that the directors of the bank of society are determined with a huge complaint by the lawmakers, the gusar, who do not have any special special information, I conclude that the complaint is assigned not by the law requests and proposals, but directly by persuasion.
And there is an abuse, important in itself and harmful to the public service.
I think...
Stephan Arkadic has rushed to overthrow the uncle.
- Yes, but you agree that a new, undoubtedly useful institution is opening up.
As you want, live!
It is especially important to ensure that the matter is done honestly,” said Stepan Arkadić with an emphasis.
But the Moscow importance of the honest was incomprehensible for Alexey Aleksandrovich.
“Honesty is only a negative property,” he said.
“But you will make me a great debt anyway,” said Stephan Arkadić, asking a word to the Pomorsky. Between the conversation...
“Yes, it’s more dependent on Bulgaria, it seems,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said.
“The Bulgarians are totally agreeing,” said Stepan Arkadić, the red.
Stephan Arkadić rednessed when he mentioned the Bulgarian because he was in the same morning with the Jew Bulgarian, and this visit left in him an unpleasant memory.
Stephan Arkadić knew firmly that the matter to which he wanted to serve was a new, living and honest thing; but this morning, when the Bulgarians, obviously intentionally, forced him to wait two hours with the other askers in the reception room, he suddenly became uncomfortable.
Was it unpleasant for him that he, the descendant of Rurik, the prince of Oblonsky, waited two hours in the reception room, or that for the first time in his life he did not follow the example of the ancestors, served the government, but performed in a new field, but he was very unpleasant.
In these two hours of waiting for Bulgarinov, Stepan Arkadić, boycottly walking through the reception room, sparking backenbards, entering a conversation with other askers and inventing a calambur that he will tell about how he had been waiting for, carefully hiding from others and even the feeling that he experienced from himself.
But it was uncomfortable and annoying for him all this time, he himself didn’t know why: whether it was because nothing came out of the calambur: “It was a matter of liquid, and I waited,” or something else.
When, finally, the Bulgarians with extreme kindness accepted him, obviously celebrating his humiliation, and almost rejected him, Stephan Arkadić drowned as soon as possible to forget that. And now, just remembering, it was red.
I have a job, and you know what. About Anne, - he said, silenced a little and scattered this unpleasant impression, Stephan Arkadić.
As soon as Oblonsky spoke the name of Anna, the face of Alexey Alexandrovich completely changed: instead of the previous revival it expressed fatigue and mortality.
What do you really want from me? - turning on the chair and swallowing his pince-nez, he said.
A decision, a decision, Alexey Alexandrovich.
I’m addressing you now (“not as an insulted husband,” – I wanted to say Stephan Arkadić, but, afraid to ruin this matter, replaced it with words:) not as a state man (which came out badly), but just as a man, and a good man and a Christian.
You have to regret her, he said.
What does it mean, actually? Karenine said quietly.
Yes, I regret her.
If you saw her like me, I spent the whole winter with her, you would regret her.
Her situation is terrible, just terrible.
“It seemed to me,” Alexey Alexandrovich answered with a thinner, almost wise voice, “that Anna Arkadievna had everything she wanted.
- Ah, Alexey Aleksandrovich, for the sake of God, we will not make recriminations!
What has passed, it has passed, and you know what she wants and awaits, divorce.
But I thought Anna Arkadievna would refuse to divorce if I demand the obligation to leave my son.
I answered and thought that it was over.
And I think it is finished, - said Alexey Aleksandrovich.
“But for the sake of God, don’t get hot,” said Stephan Arkadić, touching the uncle’s knees. The case has not ended.
If you let me recapitulate, the thing was like this: when you divorced, you were great, how generous you could be; you gave her everything—freedom, even divorce.
She appreciated it.
No, you don’t think.
It was just appreciated.
To such a degree that in these first minutes, feeling her guilt before you, she didn’t think about and couldn’t think about everything.
She rejected everything.
But reality, time showed that her position was painful and impossible.
“The life of Anna Arkadievna can’t interest me,” Alexey Aleksandrovich sparked, lifting the bridges.
“Let me not believe,” Stephan Arkadić gently opposed. - The position of her and painful for her and without any benefit for anyone.
She deserved it, you will say.
She knows this and will not ask you; she says directly that she can’t ask anything.
But I, all our relatives, all those who love her ask, we pray for you.
Why is she suffering?
Which of this is better?
“Let me, you seem to put me in the position of the accused,” said Alexey Alexandrovich.
— No, no, no, you’ll understand me — again touching his hand — said Stephan Arkadić, as if he was sure that this touching will relieve the uncle. I only say one thing: her position is painful, and it can be relieved by you, and you won’t lose anything.
I will arrange you so that you will not notice.
You have promised.
The promise was given before. I thought the question of my son was resolved.
In addition, I hoped that Anna Arkadievna would have generousness... – with hardness, throwing lips, said the bleached Alexey Alexandrovich.
She gives all your generosity.
She asks, asks for one thing: to get her out of the impossible situation in which she is.
She no longer asks for her son.
Alexey Alexandrovich, you are a good man.
Get in her position for a moment.
The question of divorce for her, in her position, the question of life and death.
If you had not promised before, she would agree with her situation, would live in the village.
But you promised, she wrote to you and moved to Moscow.
And here in Moscow, where every meeting is a knife in her heart, she lives six months, with every day waiting for a decision.
After all, it is the same that the sentenced to death to hold months with the flies on the neck, promising,, death,, mercy.
I’m sorry for it, and then I’m going to make it so.
The scrupules...
I’m not talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it, I’m talking about it. But maybe I promised something I had no right to promise.
Do you refuse what you promised?
I’ve never refused to accomplish what is possible, but I want to have time to consider how promised it is possible.
No, Alexey Alexandrovich - jumping up, said Oblonsky, - I don't want to believe it!
She’s so unhappy as soon as she can be a unhappy woman, and you can’t give up that.
as promised as possible.
You professes to be a free thinker. But I, as a believer, cannot act in such an important thing against the Christian law.
“But in Christian societies and in us, as far as I know, divorce is permitted,” Stepan Arkadić said. The divorce is allowed by our church.
And we see...
Permissible, but not in that sense.
“Alexey Aleksandrovich, I don’t know you,” Oblonsky told me. Not you (and did we not appreciate it?) All was forgiven and, moving by a Christian sense, was he ready to sacrifice to all?
You have said, give the cabin when they take the shirt, and now...
- I ask, - suddenly stood up on his feet, blind and with a trembling neck, Alexey Alexandrovich spoke, - I ask you to stop, stop... this conversation.
Oh yeah no!
Well, forgive me, forgive me, if I angry you, - with a confused smile, Stepan Arkadić spoke, stretching his hand, - but I was still, as an ambassador, just delivering my message.
Alexey Aleksandrovich gave his hand, thought and spoke:
I have to think and seek instructions.
After tomorrow I’ll give you a decisive answer – I’ve understood something, he said.
Stephan Arkadić wanted to leave when Kornay came to report:
Sergey Alexeić!
Who is Sergey Alekseich? Stephan Arkadic started, but immediately remembered.
— Oh, the seed! — he said. “Sergey Alexeych,” I thought, the head of the department.
“Anna asked me to see him,” he recalled.
And he remembered that slave, sad expression with which Anna, releasing him, said, “You will still see him.
Find out in detail where he is, who is with him.
Stay, if possible!
Is it possible?”
Stephan Arkadić understood what it meant “if possible”—if it was possible to make a divorce in such a way as to give her a son...
Now Stephan Arkadić saw that there was nothing to think about it, but he was glad to see his grandson.
Alexey Aleksandrovich reminded Shurin that his son never talks about his mother and that he asks him a word not to mention her.
“He was very sick after the meeting with his mother, which we didn’t see before,” Alexey Alexandrovich said. We feared even for his life.
But reasonable treatment and sea baths in the summer fixed his health, and now I, on the advice of a doctor, gave him to school.
Indeed, the influence of the companions had a good effect on him, and he is completely healthy and learning well.
That young man has become!
And that’s not Sereza, but the whole Sergei Alekseich! laughing, said Stephan Arkadić, looking at a beautiful wide boy in a blue jacket and long pants.
The boy looked healthy and fun.
He worshipped his uncle as a stranger, but when he knew him, he reddened and, accurately insulted and angry of something, quickly turned away from him.
The boy came to his father and gave him a note about the balls received at school.
“Well, it’s good,” said the father, “you can go.
“He lost weight and grew up and ceased to be a child and became a boy; I love it,” said Stepan Arkadić. Do you remember me?
The boy quickly looked at his father.
“I remember, my uncle,” he answered, looking at the uncle, and sinked again.
The grandfather suspected the boy and took him in the hand.
So what, how do they do? He said, wanting to talk and not knowing what to say.
The boy, red and not answering, carefully pulled his hand out of the uncle's hand.
As soon as Stephan Arkadić released his hand, he, like a bird released on his will, questioningly looked at his father, quickly came out of the room.
A year has passed since Sereza saw her mother for the last time.
Since then he has never heard of her anymore.
And that same year he was given to school and met and loved his companions.
Those dreams and memories of the mother, which made him sick after meeting with her, no longer occupied him.
When they came, he carefully pulled them away from himself, considering them as shameful and characteristic only to the girls, not to the boy and companion.
He knew that there was a dispute between his father and his mother, separating them, he knew that he was judged to stay with his father, and he tried to get used to that thought.
It was unpleasant for him to see a grandfather like his mother, because it caused in him the same memories he considered as shameful.
It was even more unpleasant to him that according to some words he heard, waiting at the door of the office, and especially by the expression of the father and uncle's face, he realized that between them had to be a talk about his mother.
And in order not to condemn the father with whom he lived and from whom he was dependent, and, most importantly, not to give up the sensitivity he considered so humiliating, Sereza tried not to look at that uncle who came to break his tranquility, and not to think about what he reminded.
But when Stephan Arkadić, who followed him, saw him on the staircase, suspected himself and asked how he spent time between classes at school, Sereza, outside the presence of his father, spoke with him.
“We now have a railroad,” he said, answering his question. You see it like: two are sitting on a store. These are passengers.
One of them stands on the store.
And everyone is stuck. You can both hand and belt, and put through all the halls.
The doors are already opened.
It’s hard to be a conductor!
Is that who stands? He asked Stepan Arkadic, smiling.
“Yes, there is a need for courage and courage, especially when someone suddenly stops or falls.
“Yes, it’s not a joke,” said Stepan Arkadić, looking sadly into these vibrant, motherly eyes, now they’re not boys, they’re not quite innocent.
And although he promised Alexey Alexandrovich not to talk about Anna, he did not survive.
Do you remember your mother? Suddenly he asked.
- No, I don't remember, - I quickly spoke Sereza and, brokenly red, swallowed.
And grandfather could not get anything more from him.
A Slavic governor after half an hour found his pupil on the staircase and for a long time he couldn’t understand whether he was angry or crying.
Was it wrong when they fell? The Governor said. I said it was a dangerous game.
I have to tell the director.
If it was wrong, no one would notice it. This is probably.
So what?
Leave me!
I remember, I don’t remember... What does it do?
Why should I remember?
He no longer addressed the governor, but the whole world.
Stepan Arkadić, as always, did not spend his holiday in St. Petersburg.
In St. Petersburg, in addition to the affairs: the divorce of the sister and the place, he, as always, had to refresh himself, as he said, after the Moscow cold.
Moscow, despite its cafes chantants and omnibus, was still a standing ballot.
This was always felt by Stepan Arkadic.
Living in Moscow, especially in the vicinity of his family, he felt that he was falling in spirit.
After living in Moscow for a long time, he came to the point that he began to worry about his wife's bad position and accusations, his health, his children's education, the small interests of his service; even the fact that he had debts worried him.
But it was worth only to come and live in St. Petersburg, in the circle in which he was turning, where he lived, just lived, rather than sparked, as in Moscow, and immediately all these thoughts disappeared and stumbled like a wax from the face of fire.
The woman?
He only spoke with Prince Chechensky.
The prince of Chechensky had a wife and a family—adults keep children, and there was another, illegal family, from which they also had children.
Although the first family was also good, Prince Chechensky felt happier in the second family.
And he took his older son to the second family and told Stepan Arkadic that he found it useful and developing for his son.
What would you say about it in Moscow?
The children?
In St. Petersburg, the children did not prevent their fathers from living.
The children were raised in institutions, and there was not that, spreading in Moscow - Lviv, for example, - the wild concept that the children all the luxury of life, and the parents one labor and care.
Here they understood that man must live for himself, as a educated man must live.
The service?
The service here was not the persistent, hopeless lamp that was drawn in Moscow; there was an interest in service.
The encounter, the service, the gentle word, the skill of presenting in the faces different things — and the man suddenly made a career like Brjancev, whom Stepan Arkadić met yesterday and who was the first sanitary now.
This service was of interest.
In particular, the St. Petersburg view of monetary affairs was calming on Stepan Arkadić.
Bartnyansky, who lived at least fifty thousand on the train he was driving, told him a wonderful word about it yesterday.
Before lunch, speaking, Stephan Arkadić said to Bartnyan:
“You seem to be close to Mordwinsky; you can serve me, please tell him a word for me.
There is a place I would like to occupy.
Member of the Agency...
- Well, I don't remember anyway... Just what do you do for the hunting in these railway affairs with jids?
As you want, it is ugly!
Stephan Arkadić did not tell him that it was a living thing; Bartnyansky would not understand that.
Money is needed, nothing to live.
You live right?
I live, but I have debts.
What are you?
A lot? - With condolences said Bartnyansky.
A lot, a thousand twenty.
Bartholomew was fun.
Oh happy man! He said. I have a million and a half and nothing, and as you see, I can still live!
And Stepan Arkadić not in a single word, but in fact saw the righteousness of this.
Zhivakhov had three hundred thousand debts and no coins for his soul, and he lived, and how!
Count Krivtsov has long been all singing, and he contained two.
Petrovsky lived five million and lived all exactly the same and even managed finance and received twenty thousand complaints.
But, in addition, St. Petersburg physically pleasantly acted on Stepan Arkadić.
He younger him.
In Moscow, he sometimes looked at the seat, slept after lunch, dragged, step, hard breathed, went into the stairs, missed with young women, didn’t dance on the balls.
In St. Petersburg he always felt ten years from his bones.
He experienced in St. Petersburg the same thing he told him yesterday the sixties-year-old Prince of Oblonsky, Peter, who just returned from abroad.
“We can’t live here,” said Peter Oblonsky. I spent the summer in Baden; well, right, I felt a very young man.
I see a young woman, and my thoughts...
You eat, you drink slightly – strength, courage.
He came to Russia, - he had to be with his wife and still in the village, - well, you don't believe, after two weeks he wore a dress, he stopped dressing for lunch.
What about young people to think!
He became an old man.
Only the soul remains to be saved.
I went to Paris and did it again.
Stephan Arkadić felt exactly the same difference as Peter Oblonsky.
In Moscow he fell so low that, in fact, if he lived there for a long time, something good would come to the salvation of his soul; in St. Petersburg he felt again a decent man.
Betsey Tverskaya and Stephan Arkadić had a long, very strange relationship.
Stephan Arkadić always laughed to take care of her and told her, also laughed, the most unpleasant things, knowing that it was the most she liked.
On the other day after his conversation with Karenina, Stephan Arkadić, coming to her, felt so young that in this joke care and trouble he went hopelessly so far that he no longer knew how to get back, because, unfortunately, she was not only unlike, but opposed to him.
Ton was established because he liked her very much.
So he was already very pleased with the coming of the gentle princess, which stopped their isolation with the two.
“You are here,” she said when she saw him. What about your poor sister?
You don’t look at me like that, she added. Since everybody has fallen on her, everybody that is a hundred thousand times worse than her, I find that she has done it perfectly.
I can’t forgive Vronsky that he didn’t let me know when she was in St. Petersburg.
I would go to her and with her everywhere.
Please give her my love from me.
Tell me about her.
— Yes, her position is hard, she... — began to tell Stepan Arkadić, in the simplicity of the soul, taking the words of the princess Mykka for the real coin, “Tell about your sister.”
The Princess Soft immediately, according to her habit, crossed it and began to tell herself.
She did what everyone except me did but hid; and she did not want to cheat, and she did great.
And even better she did, because she left this smart uncle.
You apologize to me.
Everyone said he was smart, but I said he was stupid.
Now that he has contacted Lydia Ivanovna and Landau, everyone says he’s smart, and I’d be glad not to agree with everyone, but this time I can’t.
“Please explain to me,” said Stepan Arkadić, “what does that mean?
Yesterday I was with him on the case of his sister and asked for a decisive answer.
He didn’t give me an answer and said what he’d think, and this morning I received an invitation to the present evening to Count Lydia Ivanovna instead of an answer.
Well yeah yeah! The gentle princess spoken. They ask Landau what he will say.
What about Landau?
Why?
What is Landau?
Jules Landau, le fameux Jules Landau, le clair-voyant.
He is also gay, but the fate of your sister depends on him.
This is what happens to life in the province, you don’t know anything.
Landau, you see, commis was in a store in Paris and came to the doctor.
At the doctor in the reception he slept and in the dream he began to give advice to all the sick. And amazing advice.
Yuri Meledinsky - Do you know the sick? The wife learned about this Landau and took him to her husband.
My husband treats her.
And he did not benefit him, in my opinion, because he is all so relaxed, but they believe in him and take it with themselves.
They were brought to Russia.
Everyone came to him and he began to cure them all.
Count Without Teeth healed, and she loved him so much that she adopted.
How did you adopt?
I adopted.
He is no longer Landau, but the Count of the Without Teeth.
But it’s not the matter, and Lydia – I love her very much, but her head is not in place – of course, she has now thrown on this Landau, and without it neither her nor Alexey Alexandrovich nothing is resolved, and therefore your sister’s fate is now in the hands of this Landau, otherwise Count Bezzubov.
After a wonderful lunch and a large amount of cognac, drunk from Bartnyansky, Stephan Arkadić, just a little late against the scheduled time, entered the graphene Lydia Ivanovna.
Who is the Count?
The French? Stephan Arkadić asked the Swiss, looking at the acquainted jacket of Alexey Alexandrovich and the strange, naive jacket with stickers.
- Alexey Aleksandrovich Karenin and Count Bezzubov, - the Swiss strictly answered.
“The princess Soft thought,” Stepan Arkadić thought, entering the staircase. It is strange!
It would be good to get closer to her.
It has a huge influence.
If she asks a word to the Navy, it’s right.”
There was still quite light on the courtyard, but in the small living room of the graphene Lydia Ivanovna with overwhelmed ceilings already burned lamps.
At the round table under the lamp sat the cousin and Alexey Alexandrovich, talking about something quietly.
A low, gentle man with a female pelvis, with the legs wrapped in his knees, very blurry, beautiful, with brilliant beautiful eyes and long hair, lying on the gate of his surtuck, stood at the other end, looking at the wall with portraits.
Having greeted the gentleman and Alexey Alexandrovich, Stephan Arkadić accidentally looked again at the stranger.
Mr Landau! - The Count appealed to him with the astonishing Oblonsky softness and caution.
And she met them.
Landau quickly looked, approached and, smiling, placed in the stretched hand of Stephan Arcadić a stable sweating hand and immediately turned away again and began to look at the portraits.
Countess and Alexey Alexandrovich were considerably overlooked.
“I’m very happy to see you, especially today,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna, indicating Stephan Arkadic’s place under Karenina.
“I’ve introduced you to him as to Landau,” she said with a quiet voice, looking at the French and then immediately at Alexey Alexandrovich, “but he’s indeed the Count of Bezzubov, as you probably know.
He doesn’t like this title.
“Yes, I heard,” Stepan Arkadić replied, “they say he completely healed the Count Without Teeth.
She was with me today, she's so sad! The cousin addressed Alexey Alexandrovich. The divorce is terrible for her.
This is a blow for her!
Does he go positively? Asked by Alexey Alexandrovich.
He goes to Paris.
He heard a voice yesterday, — said Count Lydia Ivanovna, looking at Stepan Arkadić.
— Oh, the voice! — repeated Oblonsky, feeling that we must be as cautious as possible in this society, in which something special happens or should happen, to which he has no key yet.
There was a minute silence, after which Count Lydia Ivanovna, as if approaching the main subject of the conversation, with a thin smile said to Oblonsky:
I know you for a long time and I am glad to know you closer.
The friends of our friends are our friends.
But in order to be a friend, you have to think about the state of the soul of a friend, and I am afraid that you do not do that with respect to Alexey Alexandrovich.
You understand what I’m talking about,” she said, raising her beautiful thoughtful eyes.
— Partly, Countess, I understand that the position of Alexey Alexandrovich... — said Oblonsky, not understanding well what it is, and therefore wanting to remain in general.
“Change isn’t in the outer position,” said strictly Count Lydia Ivanovna, while watching with a loving look at the astonished and passing to Landau Alexey Alexandrovich, “his heart has changed, he’s given a new heart, and I’m afraid that you haven’t fully thought about the change that happened in it.
In general, I can imagine this change.
We have always been friendly, and now... — answering with a gentle look at the graphene, said Stephan Arkadić, considering who of the two ministers she is closer to know who of the two will have to ask for her.
The change that has occurred in him cannot weaken his feelings of love for the neighbor; on the contrary, the change that has occurred in him must increase love.
I am afraid that you don’t understand me.
Do you want tea? She said, pointing with her eyes to the laquea that gave the tea.
Not at all, Count.
Of course, his misfortune...
“Yes, the misfortune that became the highest happiness when the heart became new, was fulfilled by them,” she said, lovingly looking at Stepan Arkadić.
“I think you can be asked to silence both,” Stepan Arkadić thought.
“Oh, of course, Count,” he said, “but I think these changes are so intimate that no one, even the six-lightest person, likes to speak.
On the contrary!
We need to talk and help each other.
- Yes, no doubt, but there is such a difference in beliefs, and at the same time... - said Oblonsky with a soft smile.
There can be no difference in the work of the holy truth.
— Oh, of course, but... — and, shy, Stephan Arkadić silenced.
He realized that it was about religion.
“It seems to me that he is now asleep,” Aleksei Aleksandrovich spoke significantly and came to Lydia Ivanovna.
Stephan Arkadic looked.
Landau sat next to the window, locked on the hand and back of the chair, leaving his head.
Remembering his eyes, he raised his head and smiled with a childish naive smile.
“Don’t pay attention,” said Lydia Ivanovna and slowly moved the chair to Alexey Alexandrovich. – I noticed... – she started something as she went into the room with a letter.
Lydia Ivanovna quickly escaped the note and, apologizing, with extreme speed wrote and answered and returned to the table. “I noticed,” she continued, “that the Mosquitians, especially men, are the most religious people.
“No, Countess, I think the Mosquitians have the reputation of being the strongest,” Stepan Arkadić replied.
“Yes, as far as I understand, you are, unfortunately, of the indifferent, with a tired smile, turning to him,” Alexey Alexandrovich said.
How can you be indifferent! Lydia Ivanovna said.
“I’m not indifferent in this regard, but I’m waiting,” said Stepan Arkadić with his most humiliating smile. I don’t think it’s time for me to ask these questions.
Alexey Aleksandrovich and Lydia Ivanovna looked over.
“We can’t ever know whether the time has come or not for us,” Alexey Aleksandrovich said strictly. We should not think about whether we are ready or not ready: grace is not guided by human considerations; it sometimes does not fall on the workers and fall on the unprepared, like Savla.
“No, it seems not yet,” said Lydia Ivanovna, following the movements of the French at that time.
Landau stood up and approached them.
Can you allow me to listen? He asked him.
“Oh yeah, I didn’t want to bother you,” Lydia Ivanovna said, “sitting with us.
“You just don’t have to close your eyes so that you don’t lose the light,” continued Alexey Alexandrovich.
Oh, if you knew the happiness that we experience, feeling his everlasting presence in our soul! Count Lydia Ivanovna said, happyly smiling.
“But a person may feel unable sometimes to rise to this height,” said Stepan Arkadić, feeling that he is curved by the soul, recognizing the religious height, but at the same time not deciding to recognize himself in his freedom of thought before a person who, in a word, can give him the desired place.
Do you mean you want to say that sin interferes with him? Lydia Ivanovna said. But this is a false opinion.
There is no sin for the believers, the sin has already been saved.
Sorry, — she added, looking back to the latter with another note.
She read and answered, “Tomorrow with the great princess, say. “There is no sin for the believer,” she continued the conversation.
“Yes, but faith without works is dead,” said Stepan Arkadić, remembering this phrase from the catechism, with one smile already defending its independence.
“This is, from the message of the Apostle Jacob,” said Alexey Alexandrovich, with some accusation addressing Lydia Ivanovna, obviously as a matter they have repeatedly talked about. How much harm has the false interpretation of this place done!
Nothing is so distracted from faith as this interpretation.
"I have no affairs, I can't believe," while it's not said anywhere.
And the opposite is said.
“To work for God, the work, the post to save the soul,” said Lydia Ivanovna, “these are the wild concepts of our monks.
But this is not said anywhere.
It was much easier and easier, and she was worried, looking at Oblonsky with the same encouraging smile with which she encouraged young people at the courtyard, troubled by the new freelin situation.
We are saved by Christ who suffered for us.
We are saved by faith — approving by the view of her words, confirmed Alexey Aleksandrovich.
Do you understand English? - asked Lydia Ivanovna and, after receiving an affirmative answer, stood up and began to replace the book on the box. I want to read “Safe and Happy” or “Under the Wing”? She said, looking questionably at Karenina.
And when she found the book and sat down again, she opened it. It is very short.
Here is described the path by which faith is acquired, and that happiness is above all the earth, which at the same time fills the soul.
A believer cannot be unhappy because he is not alone.
Here you will see. She got to read as she came in again. The Borodine?
Tell me tomorrow at 2 p.m. “Yes,” she said, putting a place in the book with her finger and looking at her with thoughtful and beautiful eyes. This is how true faith works.
Do you know Sanna Maria?
Do you know her misfortune?
She lost her only child.
She was desperate.
Well and what?
She has found this friend, and she is now thanking God for the death of her child.
This is the happiness that gives faith.
“Oh, that’s very...,” said Stepan Arkadić, pleased that they’ll read and let him remember a little.
“Not, it seems, it’s better not to ask for anything today,” he thought, “just to get out of here, without getting confused.”
“You’ll be boring,” said Count Lydia Ivanovna, addressing Landau, “you don’t know English, but it’s short.
“Oh, I’ll understand,” said Landau with the same smile and closed his eyes.
Alexey Aleksandrovich and Lydia Ivanovna were considerably reviewed, and the reading began.
Stephan Arkadić felt completely confused with the new strange words he heard.
The complexity of the Petersburg life in general was exciting on him, bringing him out of the Moscow stagnation; but these complications he loved and understood in the spheres, his close and familiar; in this same strange environment he was confused, devastated, and could not embrace everything.
Hearing the Count Lydia Ivanovna and feeling aimed at himself beautiful, naive or Plutovsky -- he himself didn't know -- Landau's eyes, Stephan Arkadić began to experience some special weight in his head.
The various thoughts were confused in his head.
“Mary Sanna is glad that her child has died.
It would be good to smoke now.
To save it, you just need to believe, and the monks don’t know how to do it, but they know Count Lydia Ivanovna.
Why am I so heavy in my head?
From the canyon or because it’s all strange?
I have not done anything uncomfortable so far.
But it is not possible to ask for it.
They say they are forcing them to pray.
As if I was forced.
It will be too stupid.
He is reading and speaks well.
Landau – without teeth.
Why is he toothless?”
Suddenly, Stephan Arkadić felt that his lower neck continuously began to swallow on the zinc.
He fixed the backenbards, hiding the zinc, and stumbled.
But after that he felt that he was already asleep and was going to crumble.
He woke up at the moment the voice of Count Lydia Ivanovna said, “He’s sleeping.”
Stephan Arkadić awoke frightened, feeling guilty and guilty.
But immediately he comforted, seeing that the words "he sleeps" were not related to him, but to Landau.
The French fell as much as Stepan Arkadić.
But Stephan Arkadić's dream, as he thought, would hurt them otherwise, he didn't think of it, so all seemed strange to him), and Landau's dream rejoiced them extremely, especially Count Lydia Ivanovna.
- Mon ami, - said Lydia Ivanovna, carefully, not to noise, wearing the clothes of her silk dress and in his excitement calling Karenina not Alexey Alexandrovich, but "mon ami," - donnez lui la main.
You see?
The sh! She scratched the lacky again. Not to accept.
The French fell asleep or thought he was asleep, laying his head to the back of the chair, and with his swollen hand on his knees, he made weak movements as if he was hunting something.
Alexey Alexandrovich stood up, wanted to be careful, but, hanging for the table, approached and placed his hand in the hand of the French.
Stephan Arkadić also stood up and, opening his eyes, wishing to wake up, if he was asleep, looked at the one and the other. It was all a appearance.
Stephan Arkadić felt that he was getting more and more bad in his head.
“Que la personne qui est arrive la dernière, celle qui demande, qu’elle sorte!
What sort! He spoke French without opening his eyes.
You’ll apologize, but you’ll see.
Revenez vers dix heures, yet better demain.
— Qu'elle sorte! — replied the French impatiently.
C’est me, n’est ce pas?
And, having received an affirmative answer, Stephan Arkadić, forgotten and that he wanted to ask Lydia Ivanovna, forgotten and the case of the sister, with one desire to get out here faster, went out on the chickens and, as from an infected house, fled the street and talked long and joked with the carrier, wanting to bring himself faster into the feeling.
In the French theatre, whom he stood the last act, and then the tatar behind the champagne Stepan Arkadić rested a little on his own air. But that night he was very bad.
Returning home to Peter Oblonsky, with whom he stopped in St. Petersburg, Stephan Arkadić found a note from Betty.
She wrote to him that she wanted to finish the conversation started and asked him to come tomorrow.
He was hardly able to read this note and trembling over it, as the heavy steps of people carrying something heavy were heard from the bottom.
Stephan Arkadic went out to see.
It was the younger Peter Oblonsky.
He was so drunk that he could not enter the staircase; but he ordered himself to lay on his feet, seeing Stephan Arkadich, and, hanging for him, went with him into his room and there began to tell him about how he spent the evening, and immediately slept.
Stephan Arkadić was in a fall of spirit, which rarely happened to him, and could not sleep for a long time.
Everything he remembered, everything was foolish, but the worst of all, exactly something shy, he remembered at night with Count Lydia Ivanovna.
On the other day he received a positive rejection from Alexey Alexandrovich about Anna’s divorce and realized that this decision was based on what the French said yesterday in his real or imprisoned dream.
In order to do something in the family life, it is necessary either a complete dispute between the spouses, or a love agreement.
When the relationship of the spouses is uncertain and there is no one or another, no action can be undertaken.
Many families over the years remain in the old places frozen by both spouses only because there is no complete disagreement or consensus.
And Vronsky and Anna Moskov's life in the heat and dust, when the sun was lighting no longer in the spring, but in the summer, and all the trees on the bulvars were long in leaves, and the leaves were already covered with dust, was unbearable; but they, not moving to Vzdrzhenskoje, as it was long decided, continued to live in the both of them frozen Moscow, because in recent times there was no agreement between them.
The irritation that divided them had no external cause, and all attempts to explain not only did not eliminate it, but increased it.
It was an inner irritation, which had the basis for her to reduce his love, for him a regret that he placed himself for her in a difficult situation, which she, instead of relieving, makes even more difficult.
Neither the one nor the other stated the reasons for their irritation, but they considered each other wrong and tried to prove this to each other.
For her he all, with all his habits, thoughts, desires, with all his mental and physical composition, was one: love for women, and that love, which, in her sense, had to be all focused on it one, that love decreased; therefore, according to her reasoning, it had to be part of love to be transferred to others or to another woman, and she was jealous.
She jealous him not to any woman, but to reduce his love.
Not having any object for jealousy, she was looking for him.
According to the smallest clue, she transmitted her jealousy from one object to another.
So she jealoused him to those brutal women with whom he could so easily get into a relationship because of his harsh ties; then she jealoused him to the secular women he could meet; then she jealoused him to the imaginary girl with whom he wanted to marry, breaking the relationship with her.
And this last jealousy most suffered her, especially because he himself told her, in an open minute, that his mother so little understood him, that she allowed herself to order him to marry the princess Sorokina.
And, jealous of him, Anna angered him and sought in all the reasons for anger.
In all that was difficult in her situation, she accused him.
The painful state of expectation that she lived between heaven and earth in Moscow, the slowness and discontinuity of Alexey Alexandrovich, her isolation—she all attributed to him.
If he loved it, he would understand all the severity of her situation and take her out of it.
In fact that she lived in Moscow, not in the village, he was guilty.
He couldn’t live in the village as she wanted.
He needed society, and he put it in this terrible situation, the severity of which he did not want to understand.
And again he was guilty that she was separated forever with her son.
Even those rare minutes of kindness that came between them didn’t calm her: in his kindness she now saw a shade of peace, confidence that had not existed before and which irritated her.
There were shadows.
Anna alone, waiting for his return from the cold lunch he went to, walked back and forward through his office (the room where the bridge noise was less heard) and in all the details thought out the expressions of yesterday’s dispute.
Returning all back from the memorable insulting words of the dispute to what was their cause, she finally reached the beginning of the conversation.
She could not long believe that the dispute would begin with such harmless, not close to the heart of no one.
And it really was so.
Everything began with the fact that he laughed on the women's high schools, considering them unnecessary, and she struck for them.
He disrespectfully dealt with women’s education at all and said that Anna, a British-protected Anna, had no need to know physics at all.
It annoyed Anna.
She saw in that a negligent clue to her lessons. And she invented and said a phrase that would repay him for her pain.
“I don’t expect you to remember me, my feelings, how a loving person can remember them, but I just expected sensitivity,” she said.
And indeed, he reddened from the obsession and said something unpleasant.
She didn’t remember that she replied to him, but only here to something he, obviously with the desire to make her sick, said:
“I’m not interested in your addiction to this girl, it’s true because I see that it’s unnatural.
This cruelty of him, with which he destroyed the world, with such difficulty built by him to bear his heavy life, this injustice of him, with which he accused it of imprisonment, of unnaturality, exploded it.
“I am very sorry that one brutal and material thing is understandable and natural to you,” she said and went out of the room.
When he came to her yesterday night, they didn’t mention the former dispute, but both felt that the dispute was overwhelmed and not passed.
The night he was not at home all day, and she was so lonely and hard to feel with him in dispute that she wanted to forget everything, forgive and reconcile with him, wanted to blame herself and justify him.
“I am guilty myself. I am angry, I am meaninglessly jealous.
I’m calming with him, and we’ll go to the village, there I’ll be more quiet,” she said to herself.
“Unnaturally,” she suddenly recalled the most offensive word not as much as the intention to make her hurt.
“I know what he wanted to say; he wanted to say: unnaturally, don’t love your daughter, love another child.
What does he understand in his love for the children, in my love for Serez, which I gave for him?
But this is the desire to make me hurt!
No, he loves another woman, it can’t be different.”
And when she saw that, wanting to calm herself, she made again the circle she had passed so many times and returned to her former irritation, she scared herself.
“Is it not possible?
Can I not take on myself? She said to herself and started again. He is true, he is honest, he loves me.
I love him, and there will be a divorce.
What else is needed?
I need peace, confidence, and I will take on myself.
Yes, now when he comes, I’ll say that I was guilty, although I wasn’t guilty, and we’ll go.”
And in order not to think anymore and not to be annoyed, she called and ordered to put things in the village.
At 10 a.m. Vronsky arrived.
Was it fun? - she asked, with guilty and delicate expression on her face coming out to him.
“As usual,” he replied, immediately looking at her and realized that she was in one of her good positions.
He was already accustomed to these transitions, and now he was pleased with him, because he was in the best position of spirit.
What I see!
It's good! - he said, indicating the sandwiches in the front.
Yes, we have to drive.
I was driving, and so good that I wanted to go to the village.
Nothing stops you?
I only want one.
I’m going to come and talk, I’m just going to dress up.
Learn to give tea.
And he went to his office.
There was something insulting in the fact that he said, “This is good,” as they say to the child when he stopped capricating; and even more insulting was that opposition between her guilty and his self-confident tone; and for a moment she felt the rising desire to fight; but, having made an effort on herself, she suppressed him and met Vronsky with the same joy.
When he came out to her, she told him, partly repeating the prepared words, her day and her plans to leave.
“You know, I was almost inspired,” she said. Why wait for a divorce?
Is it not in the village?
I cannot wait anymore.
I don’t want to hope, I don’t want to hear anything about divorce.
I decided that it would no longer have an impact on my life.
And you agree?
- Oh yeah! - he said, looking into her excited face with anxiety.
What did you do there, who was? She said, silent.
Vronsky called the guests. - The lunch was wonderful, and the boat race, and all this was pretty nice, but in Moscow they can't be without ridicule.
There appeared a lady, a Swedish Queen's swimming teacher, and showed her art.
How? I swim? I wondered, asked Anna.
In some red costume de natation, old, unpleasant.
So when do we go?
What a stupid fantasy!
Is it especially swimming? No answer, Anna said.
Definitely nothing special.
I say, stupidly terrible.
When do you think to drive?
Anna swallowed her head as if she wanted to withdraw an unpleasant thought.
When to drive?
The earlier, the better.
Tomorrow we will not succeed. after tomorrow.
Yes no, stand up.
After tomorrow Sunday, I have to be with my mother, — said Vronsky, shy, because, as soon as he spoke the mother’s name, he felt an accurate suspicious look on himself.
His anger confirmed his suspicion.
She exploded and took away from him.
Now no longer the teacher of the Swedish queen, but the princess Sorokin, who lived in the sub-Moscow village with the Countess of Vronskaya, presented Anna.
Can you go tomorrow? She said.
Yes not!
For the case I’m eating, trust and money won’t get tomorrow,” he replied.
If so, we will not go completely.
So why?
I will not go later.
Monday or never.
Why not? I was surprised by Wronsky. That has no sense!
It makes no sense for you, because you have nothing to do with me.
You don’t want to understand my life.
One thing that took me here was Anna. You say it is a trait.
You said yesterday that I don't love my daughter, but I'm pretending that I love this English woman, that it's unnatural; I'd like to know what life can be natural for me here!
At a moment she woke up and was scared of what she changed her intention.
But knowing that she’s losing herself, she couldn’t resist, she couldn’t show him how wrong he was, she couldn’t obey him.
I’ve never said this; I’ve said I’m not compassionate for this sudden love.
Why do you, glorifying your straightness, not tell the truth?
“I’m never cheerful and I’m never false,” he said quietly, holding the anger rising in him. I’m sorry if you don’t respect...
Respect was invented to hide an empty place where love should be.
And if you don’t love me anymore, it’s better and more honest to say that.
It becomes unbearable! He screamed Vronsky, rising from the chair. And standing before her, he slowly said, Why do you experience my patience? He said in such a way as if he could say much more, but he held up. It has limits.
What do you want to say about this? She screamed, scaredly looking into the manifest expression of hatred that was in the whole face and especially in the cruel, terrible eyes.
He started, but he stopped. I have to ask what you want from me.
What can I wish?
I can only want that you don’t leave me as you think,” she said, understood everything he didn’t tell. I don’t want it, it’s secondary.
I want love, but it is not.
It happened, everything is over!
She turned to the door.
The post!
Po...stay! — said Vronsky, not moving the dark shell of the brushes, but stopping it for the hand. What is the matter?
I said the departure should be postponed for three days, you told me that I lie, that I am an unfair person.
“Yes, and I repeat that the man who punishes me, that he has all sacrificed for me,” she said, remembering the words of the previous dispute, “that it is worse than an unfair man, is a man without heart.”
- No, there are boundaries of patience! - he screamed and quickly released her hand.
“He hates me, it’s clear,” she thought, and silently, without looking, with the wrong steps, she went out of the room.
“He loves another woman, that’s even more clear,” she said to herself, entering her room. I want love, but it is not.
It happened, everything was over, she repeated the words she said, and it must be over.”
“But how?” She asked herself and sat on a chair in front of a mirror.
Thoughts about where she will go now—to her aunt, to whom she was raised, to Dolly, or just one abroad, and about what he is doing now alone in the office, whether this is a final dispute, or maybe even a reconciliation, and about what all her former Peterburg acquaintances will now talk about her, how Alexey Alexandrovich will look at it, and many other thoughts about what will be now, after the break, came to her mind, but she did not with all her soul give up these thoughts.
In her soul there was some unclear thought that one was interested in her, but she couldn’t realize it.
Remembering again Alexey Alexandrovich, she remembered the time of her illness after birth and the feeling that then did not leave her.
“Why am I not dead?” She remembered her words and her feelings at that time.
And suddenly she realized what was in her soul.
That was the idea that one solved everything.
“Yes, to die!”
And the shame and shame of Alexey Alexandrovich, and Serezi, and my terrible shame, all is saved by death.
To die – and he will regret, will regret, will love, will suffer for me.”
With a stopful smile of compassion to herself, she sat on a chair, pulling and wearing the rings from her left hand, living from different sides, imagining her feelings after her death.
The approached steps, his steps, dissolved her.
No matter how busy she was putting her knees, she didn’t even turn to him.
He approached her and, taking her in the hand, said quietly:
“Anna, we’ll go tomorrow if you want.
I agree with everything.
She was silent.
What is? He asked him.
“You know,” she said, and at the same moment, not able to hold up more, she shakened.
“Let me go, let me go!” she spoke between the rings. I will go tomorrow...
I will do more.
Who am I? A corrupt woman.
A stone on your neck.
I don’t want to torture you, I don’t want.
I will release you.
You don’t love, you love another.
Wronsky asked her to calm and assured that there was no ghost for her jealousy, that he never stopped and will never stop loving her, that he loves more than before.
Why do I torture myself and me so much? He said, kissing her hands.
His face now expressed mildness, and it seemed to her that she heard the sound of tears in his voice and felt their moisture on her hand.
And instantly the desperate jealousy of Anna passed into desperate, passionate delicacy; she hugged him, covered his head, neck, and hands with kisses.
Feeling that the reconciliation was complete, Anna in the morning lively accepted the preparation for her departure.
Although it wasn’t decided whether they’d go on Monday or Tuesday, as the two gave up each other yesterday, Anna was actively preparing for the departure, feeling now completely indifferent to whether they’d go on a day earlier or later.
She stood in her room over an open sandwich, picking up things when he, already dressed, before the usual came into her.
I’m going to go to my mom, she can send me money through Yogorov. “I’m ready to go tomorrow,” he said.
Regardless of how well she was attended, the mention of the journey to the gift to her mother wrapped her.
“No, I’m not going to succeed,” she said and immediately thought, “It happened, I could have been arranged to do what I wanted.” No, as you wanted, do it.
Go to the dining room, I’m going to come now, just pick up these unnecessary things,” she said, giving to the hand of Anushka, on which the mountain was already lay, something else.
Wronsky eaten her buffet when she went out to the dining room.
“You won’t believe how these rooms were frozen to me,” she said, sitting under him to her coffee. There is nothing worse than these rooms garnies.
There is no face expression in them, there is no soul.
These clocks, gardens, the main cover is a nightmare.
I think of the Resurrection as a promised land.
Are you going to send more horses?
They will go after us.
Are you going somewhere?
I wanted to go to Wilson. I got her clothes.
So determined tomorrow? She said with a joyful voice, but suddenly her face changed.
Commander Vronsky came to ask for a letter to a telegram from St. Petersburg.
There was nothing special in receiving the Vronsk Depes, but he, as if he wanted to hide something from her, said that the scripture was in the office, and quickly addressed her.
I will definitely finish tomorrow.
Who is Depeche? She asked without listening to him.
— From Steve — he replied unwantedly.
Why did you not show me?
What is the secret between Steve and me?
Vronsky turned the camardiner and told him to bring a depech.
I didn’t want to show because Steve has a passion for telegraphing; what to telegraph when nothing is resolved?
About divorce?
- Yes, but he writes: nothing could be achieved yet.
He promised a decisive response.
Here is reading.
With throwing hands, Anna took the desk and read what Vronsky said. The end was added: there is little hope, but I will do everything possible and impossible.
“I said yesterday that I don’t care when I get and even if I get a divorce,” she said red. There was no reason to hide from me.
“So he can hide and hide from me his correspondence with women,” she thought.
“And Yashvin wanted to come this morning with Vojtov,” Wronsky said, “it seems that he won with Pevtsov everything, and even more than he could pay, about six hundred thousand.
“No,” she said, angry by the fact that he so obviously showed her that she was angry, “why do you think that this news interests me so much that it should even be hidden?”
I said I don’t want to think about it, and I would like you to be less interested in it like me.
“I’m interested because I love clarity,” he said.
“The clarity is not in form, but in love,” she said, increasingly irritated not by words, but by the tone of the cold calm with which he spoke. Why do you want this?
“My God, again about love,” he thought, trembling.
“For you know why, for you and for the children who will be,” he said.
There will be no children.
“It’s very sad,” he said.
You need it for your kids, and you don’t think about me? She said, completely forgotten and not heard what he said, “for you and for the children.”
The question of the possibility of having children has long been controversial and annoying her.
His desire to have children she explained to herself by the fact that he did not appreciate her beauty.
Oh, I said, for you.
The most important thing for you, it’s that you’re melting, just from pain, he repeated, because I’m sure that the greatest portion of your irritation comes from the uncertainty of the situation.
“Yes, he has ceased to pretend now, and all his cold hatred to me is seen,” she thought, not listening to his words, but scaredly looking at that cold and cruel judge who, irritating her, looked from his eyes.
“The reason is not that,” she said, “and I don’t even understand how the reason for my irritation, as you call, may be that I am completely in your power.
What is the uncertainty of the situation?
the opposite.
“I’m very sorry that you don’t want to understand,” he broke it, with the persistence to express his thought, “the uncertainty is that you think I’m free.
“For this you can be completely calm,” she said and, turning away from him, began to drink coffee.
She lifted up the cup, leaving the misine, and brought it up to her mouth.
After drinking a few drops, she looked at him and by the expression of his face clearly realized that his hand, and the gesture, and the sound she produced with her lips were against him.
“I don’t care what your mother thinks and how she wants to marry you,” she said, putting the cup with her hand.
But we are not talking about it.
No, about it itself.
And believe that for me a woman without a heart, whether she’s old or not, your mother or a stranger, is not interesting, and I don’t want to know her.
“Anna, I ask you not to say unacceptable about my mother.
A woman who has not imagined with her heart what the happiness and honor of her son are, he has no heart.
“I repeat my request not to say unacceptable about the mother I respect,” he said, raising his voice and strictly looking at her.
She did not answer.
Looking at him, his face, his hands, she reminded with all the details of the scene of yesterday’s reconciliation and his passionate compassion.
"These, exactly the same loves he broke out and will and wants to broke out to other women!" She thought.
You don’t love your mother.
It’s all the phrases, phrases and phrases! — with hatred looking at him, she said.
If so, then you have to...
“I have to decide, and I have decided,” she said and wanted to leave, but at that time Yashvin entered the room.
Anna greeted him and stopped. Why, when she had a storm in her soul, and she felt that she was on the turn of life, which could have terrible consequences, why she had to pretend at that moment before a stranger, who would soon or later know everything, she did not know; but, immediately humiliating the inner storm in herself, she sat and began to talk to the guest.
What is your business? Have a debt? She asked Yasmin.
“Yes nothing; it seems that I’m not getting everything, and we’ll have to go on Wednesday.
And you when? - said Yashvin, stumbling looking at Vronsky and obviously guessing about the dispute that happened.
“It seems to be tomorrow,” Wronsky said.
You have been going for a long time.
“But now it’s decisive,” Anna said, looking straight into the eyes of Vronsky with such a view that he told him that he would not even think about the possibility of bringing reconciliation.
Do you not regret this unfortunate singer? She continued a conversation with Yashwin.
“I’ve never asked myself, Anna Arkadievna, sad or not sad.
For my whole state is here—he showed on the side pocket—and now I am a wealthy man; and now I’m going to the club and maybe I’m going out to the poor.
For whoever sits with me wants to leave me without a shirt, and I want him.
We are fighting, and that’s the pleasure.
“Well, if you were married,” Anna said, “what would your wife be?”
Yashwin laughed.
Then, I see, and never married and never gathered together.
What about Helsinki? - said Vronsky, entering the conversation, and looked at the smiling Anna.
Meeting his eyes, Anna’s face suddenly took a cold and strict expression, as if she said to him, “It’s not forgotten.
All the same.”
Have you been in love? She told Yashwin.
O Lord! How many times!
But, you understand, one can sit behind the cards, but so that you can always stand up when the time of rendez-vous comes.
And I can do love, but so that I can't get late to the party at night.
That is how I satisfy.
No, I’m not asking about it, but about the present. She wanted to say Helsingfors; but she didn’t want to say the word Wronsky said.
The war came and bought the grape; Anna stood up and went out of the room.
Before leaving the house, Vronsky went in to her.
She wanted to pretend that she was looking for something on the table, but, ashamed by the faces, she directly looked at him in the face with a cold look.
What do you need? She asked him in French.
“To take an attestate on Gambetta, I sold it,” he said in a ton that expressed clearer words, “to explain to me a time, and it will not lead to anything.”
“I’m not guilty of anything before her,” he thought. “If she wants to punish herself, so bad for her.”
But when he came out, it seemed to him that she said something, and his heart suddenly dropped from compassion to her.
What is Anna? He asked him.
“I’m nothing,” she answered so cold and calmly.
“And nothing, so tant pis,” he thought, again cold, turned and went.
As he went out, he saw her face in the mirror, bright, with scratched lips.
He wanted to stop and tell her a comforting word, but his feet took him out of the room before he thought what to say.
He spent the whole day outside of the house, and when he arrived late in the evening, the girl told him that Anna Arkadievna had a headache and she asked not to go to her.
There has never been a day of struggle.
This was the first time. And that was not a dispute.
This was a clear recognition in perfect cooling.
Was it possible to look at her as he looked when he entered the room for the atestate?
Looking at her, seeing her heart breaks out of despair, and passing silence with this indifferent and quiet face?
He was not that he cooled to her, but he hated her because he loved another woman, it was clear.
And remembering all the cruel words he said, Anna invented the words he obviously wanted and could say to her, and became more and more angry.
“I don’t keep you,” he could say. You can go wherever you want.
You didn’t want to divorce with your husband, probably to return to him.
Go back.
If you need money, I will give you.
How many rubles do you need?”
All the most cruel words that a brutal man could say, he told her in her imagination, and she didn’t forgive him as if he really told them.
"Is it not yesterday that only he swore in love, he, a true and honest man?
“Isn’t I desperate many times?” After that she talked to herself.
All this day, except the trip to Wilson, which took her two hours, Anna spent in doubts about whether it was over, or there was a hope of reconciliation, and whether she had to go now, or see him again.
She was waiting for him all day and evening, going to her comma, ordering to tell him that her head was hurt, she asked herself, "If he would come, despite the words of the horny, then, he still loves.
If not, then it’s all over, and then I’ll decide what to do.”
In the evening, she heard the stoping bite of his wheel, his calls, his steps and the conversation with the girl: he believed in what he was told, he didn’t want to know anything anymore and went to himself.
It happened, everything was over.
And death, as the only means to restore in his heart love for her, to punish her, and to win in the struggle that the evil spirit had settled in her heart with him, was clearly and lively presented to her.
Now it was no matter: to go or not to travel, to get or not to get a divorce from your husband - everything was unnecessary.
One thing was to punish him.
When she swallowed her ordinary opium receipt and thought that it was worth just drinking the whole glass to die, it seemed so easy and simple that she again with pleasure began to think about how he would suffer, regret and love her memory when it was too late.
She was lying in a bed with her eyes open, looking at the light of a golden candle on the threshold of the roof and on the fascinating part of her shadow from the shadow, and she lively imagined that he would feel when she was no longer there and it would be for him only one memory.
“How could I tell her these cruel words? He will speak. How could I get out of the room without saying anything to her?
But now she is not.
She left us forever.
She is there...”
Suddenly, the shadow of the threshold climbed, captured the whole carnis, the entire roof, the other shadows on the other side rushed to her; for a moment the shadows escaped, but then, with a new speed, they overcome, climbed, merged, and everything became dark.
“The Death!” She thought.
And such a horror found on her that she was long unable to understand where she was, and for a long time she was unable to find a spike and burn another candle instead of the one that burned and drowned.
“No, everything is just living!
I love him.
He loves me! It was and will pass,” she said, feeling that the tears of joy of returning to life flowed on her shells.
And to get rid of her fear, she quickly went to the office to him.
He slept strongly in the office.
She approached him and, lighting his face from above, looked at him for a long time.
Now, when he was asleep, she loved him so that she couldn’t hold the tears of delicacy when she saw him; but she knew that if he woke up, he would look at her with a cold, conscious look, and that before she told him about her love, she should prove to him how he was guilty before her.
She, without awakening him, returned to herself and after the second dose of opium in the morning, she slept in a heavy, incomplete sleep, throughout which she didn’t stop feeling herself.
In the morning, a terrible nightmare, repeated several times in her dreams before the connection with Vronsky, presented her again and awakened her.
The old man with a blurred beard was doing something, swallowing over the iron, judging the meaningless French words, and she, as always at that nightmare (which was his horror), felt that this man did not pay attention to her, but did it somewhat terrible thing in the iron over her.
She woke up in a cold sweat.
When she got up, she, like in the cloud, remembered yesterday.
“There was a dispute.
It was what has happened several times.
I said I had a headache and he didn’t get in.
Tomorrow we go, we need to see him and prepare for the departure,” she said to herself.
And when she learned that he was in the office, she went to him.
Walking through the living room, she heard that the crew stopped at the entrance, and, looking in the window, she saw the car, from which the young girl was hanging in a lily hat, telling something to the calling lake.
After negotiations in the front, someone went up, and next to the hall were heard the steps of Vronsky.
He went down the stairs with fast steps.
Anna came to the window again.
He went out without a hat on his wing and approached the car.
A young girl in a lily hat gave him a package.
Vronsky, smiling, said something to her.
The caret went away; he quickly fled back on the staircase.
The cloud, which caught everything in her soul, suddenly dispersed.
Yesterday’s feelings with a new pain stumbled the sick heart.
She couldn’t understand now how she could humiliate herself before spending the whole day with him in his house.
She went to his office to announce her decision.
This Soroquina and her daughter went and brought me money and paper from my mom.
I couldn’t get it yesterday.
What is your head, better? He said calmly, without wanting to see and understand the dark and solemn expression of her face.
She silently looked at him, standing in the middle of the room.
He looked at her, sinked at a moment and continued to read the letter.
She turned and slowly left the room.
He could still get it back, but she came to the door, he was all silent, and only the sound of the turning paper sheet was heard.
“Yes, on the other hand,” he said when she was already at the door, “will we be determined tomorrow? isn’t it true?
“You, but not me,” she said, turning to him.
“Anna, Edak cannot live.
“You, but not me,” she repeated.
It becomes unbearable!
“You... you’re scared of it,” she said and went out.
Feared by the desperate expression with which these words were said, he jumped up and wanted to run for it, but, remembering, he sat again and, strongly pressing his teeth, swallowed.
This unpleasant, as he found, threat of something irritated him.
"I tried everything," he thought, "there's one thing to not pay attention," and he began to go to the city and again to the mother, from whom he had to get the signature of confidence.
She heard the sounds of his steps through the cabin and the dining room.
In the living room he stopped.
But he didn’t turn to her, he only gave an order to let the warrior be released without him.
Then she heard the wheel was put down, the door opened, and he went out again.
But he went into the seat again, and someone fled up.
This camardiner escaped for forgotten gloves.
She approached the window and saw how he didn’t look and took his gloves and, touching the back of the cowboy with his hand, said something to him.
Then, without looking into the window, he sat in his usual position in a wheelchair, put his foot on his foot, and, wearing a gloves, hid behind the corner.
“I have gone!
It is over!” Anna said to herself, standing next to the window; and in response to this question, the impression of darkness with a blinking candle and a terrible sleep, merging into one, cold horror filled her heart.
“No, it cannot be!” She screamed and, passing through the room, called strongly.
She was so scary now to stay alone that, not waiting for the man to come, she went to him.
“Let’s know where the Count went,” she said.
The man answered that the Count went to the conjunction.
They ordered to report that if you want to leave, the wheel will come back now.
and well.
Stay there.
Now I will write a note.
Send Michael with a note in the cabin.
faster than.
She sat down and wrote:
“I am guilty.
Go home, I have to explain.
For the sake of God come, I am afraid.”
She sealed and gave the man.
She was afraid to stay alone now and after the man, she went out of the room and went to the children's room.
“What, it’s not that, it’s not he!
Where are his blue eyes, a sweet and slave smile? It was her first thought when she saw her tumultured, ruby girl with black shining hair, instead of Sereza, whom she, with the confusion of her thoughts, expected to see in the childhood.
The girl, sitting at the table, hardly and strongly choked over it with a break and meaninglessly looked at her mother with two shadows — black eyes.
Answering to the English woman that she’s healthier and that she’s going to the village tomorrow, Anna settled up with the girl and began to turn her back to the graffiti.
But the loud, loud laughter of the child and the movement she made a brave, so vividly reminded her of Vronsky that, holding the crying, she quickly stood up and went out.
“Is it all over?
No, it can’t be, she thought. He will return.
But how will he explain to me that smile, that revival after he spoke to her?
I don’t explain it, I still believe it.
If I don’t believe, I have one thing left, and I don’t want it.”
She looked at the clock.
It passed twelve minutes.
Now he got a note and goes back.
Not long, another ten minutes.
But what if he doesn’t come?
No, that cannot be.
He must not see me with the crying eyes.
I’m going to get tired.
“Yes, yes, I’m crazy or not?” She asked herself. I couldn’t remember.
She felt her head with her hand.
“Yes, I’m crazy, but when, I definitely don’t remember.”
She didn’t even believe her hand and came to the trum, to see if she was really shaken or not?
She was shy and couldn’t remember when she did it.
“Who is this?” She thought, looking in the mirror on the inflamed face with strange bright eyes, scaredly looking at her.
“Yes, that’s me,” she suddenly realized, and, looking at herself all, she suddenly felt his kiss on herself and, sweeping, moved her shoulders.
She raised her hand to her lips and kissed her.
“What this is, I look crazy,” and she went to the bedroom where Annuška was cleaning the room.
“Annuška,” she said, standing in front of her and looking at the mountain, without knowing what she would say to her.
- To Darje Alexandrovne you wanted to go, - as if you understand, said the mining.
to Darje Alexandrovne?
Yes, I will go.
“Five minutes there, fifteen minutes back. He is coming, he is coming now. She took out the clock and looked at it. But how could he leave, leaving me in such a position?
How can he live without reconciliation with me?”
She approached the window and began to look at the street.
In time he could have returned.
But the calculation could be unfaithful, and she again began to remember when he left, and count the minutes.
While she left for a long time to check out her own, someone came up.
Looking out of the window, she saw his wheel.
But no one went to the stairs, and a voice was heard from below.
It was a messenger who returned in the wheel.
She came to him.
The Count did not stand.
They went on the downtown road.
What about you?
What? She addressed the Romanian, joyful Mikhail, who returned her note.
“He didn’t get her,” she remembered.
- Go with the same note to the village to the Count Vronskaya, you know?
Then he answered, and he said to the messenger.
“I am myself, what will I do? She thought. “Yes, I’m going to Dolly, it’s true, and then I’m going to be foolish.
I can still telegraph.”
She wrote a depech:
“I need to negotiate, come now.”
He sent a telegram and went dressing.
Already dressed and in the hat, she again looked in the eyes of the thick, quiet Anushka.
Clear compassion was seen in these small good gray eyes.
“Annucha, dear, what can I do? - crying, said Anna, unhelpily leaving on the chair.
What do you worry, Anna Arkadievna!
That is happening.
You’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going, you’re going.
“Yes, I’m going to go,” I remembered and stood up, Anna said. - And if without me there will be a telegram, send to Darje Alexandrovne.
No, I will come back myself.
“Yes, you don’t have to think, you have to do something, go, the most important thing is to leave this house,” she said, listening with fear to the terrible clock that happened in her heart, and quickly went out and sat in the wheel.
Where do you order? Peter asked before he sat on the cows.
On the Flag, to the Oblonsky.
The weather was clear.
Every morning there was a frequent, small rain, and now it has recently clarified.
Iron roofs, rotor plates, bridge holes, wheels and leather, copper and crew gestures – all brightly glowed on the May sun.
It was three hours and the most vibrant time on the streets.
Sitting in the corner of a quiet wheel, slightly climbing with its rigid resors on the fast flow of the grey, Anna, with the immeasurable breathtaking of wheels and rapidly changing impressions on the clean air, recovering the events of the last days, saw her position completely different from what it seemed to her at home.
Now the thought of death did not seem to her so terrible and clear, and death itself did not seem to be more inevitable.
Now she blamed herself for the humiliation to which she came down.
“I ask him to forgive me.
I obeyed him.
I recognized myself guilty.
Can I not live without him?”
And, without answering the question of how she would live without him, she began to read the hangs.
The office and the warehouse.
The dentist.
I will tell Dolly everything.
She doesn’t like Vronsky.
It will be shameful, painful, but I will tell her everything.
She loves me and I will follow her advice.
I will not obey him; I will not allow him to educate himself.
Phillip and Kalaki.
They say they’re taking the test to St. Petersburg.
The Moscow water is so good.
and the wheels and the wheels.”
And she remembered how long, long, when she was yet seven years old, she travelled with her uncle to the Trinity.
Again on the horses.
Was it me with red hands?
How much of what seemed so beautiful and unavailable to me then became unavailable, and what was then is now unavailable forever.
Would I then believe that I can get to such humiliation?
How he will be proud and happy to get my note!
I will prove to him...
How bad the paint smells.
Why do they all paint and build?
Fashion and costumes,” she read.
The man worshipped her.
It was Anna’s husband.
“Our parasites,” she remembered, as Vronsky said. Their? Why our?
It is terrible that we cannot break with the root of the past.
You can’t break, but you can hide your memory.
I will hide.”
And here she remembered the past with Alexey Alexandrovich, how she smoothed him out of her memory.
“Dolly will think that I’m leaving my second husband and that I’m probably wrong.
I want to be right!
I can’t!” She spoke, and she wanted to cry.
But she immediately began to think about why these two girls could smile so much.
True about love?
They don’t know how bad it is, how low it is.
Bulvar and children.
Three boys run playing horses.
The network!
And I will lose everything, and I will not return it.
I will lose everything if he doesn’t come back.
He may have been late on the train and has already returned.
You want humiliation again. She said to herself. “No, I will go to Dolly and tell her straight: I’m miserable, I’m guilty, but I’m still miserable, help me.
“These horses, this wheel, how disgusting I am in this wheel, all of him; but I will no longer see them.”
Is there someone? She asked in front.
- Katarina Alexandrovna Levina, - replied Laki.
The Kitty! The same Kitty that Wronsky was in love with, - thought Anna, - the same that he remembered with love.
He regrets not having married her.
And he remembers me with hatred and regrets that he has failed with me.”
Among the sisters, while Anna arrived, there was a meeting on feeding.
Dolly one came out to meet a guest, in that moment interfering with their conversation.
Have you not gone yet?
I wanted to be with you, she said, now I got a letter from Steve.
“We also got a depech,” Anna answered, looking to see Kitty.
He writes that he can’t understand what Alexey Alexandrovich wants, but he won’t leave without a reply.
I thought you had someone.
Can I read the letter?
“Yes, Kitty,” Dolly said, “he stayed in childhood.
She was very sick.
I heard.
I will bring it now.
But he doesn’t refuse; on the contrary, Steve hopes,” Dolly said, stopping in the door.
“I don’t hope, I don’t want,” Anna said.
“What is it, Kitty thinks it is humiliating to meet me? And Anna thought she was alone. Maybe she is right.
But not to her, the one who was in love with Vronsky, not to her show me this, although it is true.
I know that no decent woman can accept me in my position.
I know that from the first minute I gave him all!
Here is the prize!
How I hate him!
And why have I come here?
I was even worse, even worse, she heard the voice of the sisters talking from another room. What will I say to Dolly?
To comfort Kitty by the fact that I am unhappy, to obey her protection?
No, Dolly will not understand anything.
I have nothing to say to her.
It would be interesting to see Kitty and show her how I deny all and all, as I don’t care now.”
Dolly came with a letter.
Anna read and silently transmitted it.
“I knew it all,” she said. And that doesn’t interest me much.
So why?
I, on the contrary, hope,” said Dolly, with curiosity looking at Anna.
She has never seen her in such a strange annoying state. When are you eating? She asked.
Anna looked in front of her and didn’t answer her.
What is Kitty hiding from me? She said, looking at the door and red.
What a vacuum!
She feeds, and she doesn’t do anything, I advised her.
She is very happy.
She will come now, uncomfortable, unable to say the truth, Dolly said. Here is she too.
Knowing that Anna was coming, Kitty wanted not to go out; but Dolly told her.
Gathered with the forces, Kitty went out and, red, approached her and gave her hand.
“I’m so happy,” she said with a loud voice.
Kitty was disturbed by the struggle that took place in her, between hostility to this bad woman and the desire to be humiliated to her; but as soon as she saw Anna’s beautiful, sympathetic face, all hostility immediately disappeared.
I’t be surprised if you didn’t want to meet me.
I am accustomed to everything.
You were sick?
Yes, you’ve changed,” Anna said.
Kitty felt that Anna was hostile to look at her.
She explained this hostility as an unpleasant situation in which she now felt in front of Anna, who had previously protected her, and she became sad for her.
They talked about the disease, about the child, about Steve, but obviously nothing was interested in Anna.
“I was going to say goodbye to you,” she said up.
When are you going to eat?
But Anna again, without answering, turned to Kitty.
“Yes, I’m so glad to see you,” she said with a smile. I have heard so much about you from all sides, even from your husband.
He was with me, and I liked him very much – obviously, with bad intention, she added. Where is he?
“He went to the village, the red,” Kitty said.
Do you worship him from me, do you worship him.
– Definitely! – Kitty repeated naively, compassionately looking in her eyes.
- So goodbye, Dolly! - And, kissing Dolly and hanging Kitty's hand, Anna quickly went out.
It’s all the same and attractive.
Very good! — said Kitty, stay alone with her sister. But there is something sad in it! Extremely sad!
“No, now there’s something special in her,” Dolly said. When I caught her in front, it seemed to me that she wanted to cry.
Anna sat in a wheel in even worse condition than what she was, leaving the house.
The former torture was now accompanied by the feeling of insult and rejection that she clearly felt when she met Kitty.
Where do you order?
to home? He asked Peter.
“Yes, home,” she said, now without thinking about where she’s going.
“How they looked at me like something terrible, incomprehensible and curious.
What can he tell someone so hot about? She thought, looking at two pedestrians. Can you tell someone else what you feel?
I wanted to tell Dolly, and good that she didn’t tell me.
How happy she was to my misfortune!
She would hide it; but the main feeling would be the joy that I was punished for the pleasures in which she was jealous of me.
Kitty, it would be even more happy.
How I see it all down!
She knows that I was more than usual, kind to her husband.
She is jealous and hates me. And neglect more.
In her eyes I am an immoral woman.
If I were an immoral woman, I could love her husband... if I wanted.
I wanted it.
Here this is pleased with herself, she thought of the thick, ruminate gentleman, who went to meet, who took her for the famous and lifted the sliding hat over the sliding head, and then convinced that he was wrong. He thought he knew me.
He knows me as little as anyone else in the world knows me.
I myself don’t know.
I know my appetite, as the French say.
That’s what they want this dirty ice cream. That they probably know, she thought, looking at the two boys who stopped the refrigerator, who took out of his head a carpet and wiped the end of the towel with a sweat face. We all want a sweet and delicious.
No sweets, but dirty ice cream.
And Kitty is the same: not Vronsky, but Levin.
And she jealous of me.
He hates me.
We all hate each other.
I am Kitty, Kitty me.
This is the truth.
She is a coiffeur.
Je me fais coiffer by Tjúkin...
I will tell him when he comes, she thought and smiled.
But at the same moment she remembered that someone now told her nothing funny. No funny, no fun.
Everything is ugly.
They call to the evening, and the buyer is as carefully baptized! He is afraid to waste something.
Why are these churches, this bell and this lie?
Just to hide that we all hate each other, like these outgoers who are so evil to defend themselves.
Yashvin says, he wants to leave me without a shirt, and I want to leave him.
This is the truth!”
On those thoughts that caught her so that she stopped even thinking about her position, she stopped at the wing of her house.
When she saw a Switzerland, she just remembered that she sent a note and a telegram.
Is there an answer? She asked.
“Now I’m looking,” the Swiss answered and, looking at the container, came and gave her a square thin telegram container.
“I can’t come before ten hours. “Vronsky,” she read.
The messenger has not returned.
“No,” the Swiss answered.
“And if so, then I know what to do,” she said, and, feeling the uncertain anger and the need for revenge, she fled up. I will go to him myself.
Before I leave forever, I will tell him everything.
I’ve never hated anyone like this man.” She thought.
When she saw her hat on the wheat, she drowned from hatred.
She did not understand that his telegram was a response to her telegram and that he had not received her notes yet.
She imagined him now quietly speaking with her mother and with Sorokin and rejoicing her suffering.
“Yes, it’s good to go faster,” she said to herself, not knowing where to go.
She wanted to get away quickly from the feelings she experienced in this terrible house.
The servant, the walls, the things in this house - everything caused in it hatred and wrath and pushed it somewhat heavy.
“Yes, you have to go to the railway station, and if not, then go there and eradicate it.”
Anna looked at the train schedule in the newspapers.
It departs at eighth two minutes in the evening.
“Yes, I will sing.”
She ordered to put other horses and engaged in putting the necessary things in the road bag for a few days.
She knew she would not come back here anymore.
She confusedly decided among those plans that came to her mind, and that after what will happen there at the station or in the name of the graphene, she will go on the Nizhny Novgorod road to the first city and stay there.
The lunch was standing on the table; she came, sinked the bread and cheese, and, making sure that the smell of all that was eaten was against her, she ordered to give the wheel, and she went out.
The house had already thrown shadows across the street, and it was clear, still warm at the sun in the evening.
And Anushka, who carried her with the things, and Peter, who put the things in the wheel, and the dog, obviously unhappy, were all opposed to her and irritated her with her words and movements.
I don’t need you, Peter.
What about the ticket?
“Well, what you want, I don’t care,” she said boredly.
Peter jumped up on the cows and ordered to go to the station.
“Here is she again!
Again I understand everything," Anna said to herself as soon as the wheel drowned and, climbing up, heated on a small bridge, and again one after another the impressions began to change.
“Why did I think so well? I tried to remember her. Is it a coiffer?
No, not that.
Yes, about what Yashvin says: Struggle for existence and hatred are one that binds people.
No, you’re going out, — thoughtfully she turned to the company in a fourth wheel, which obviously was driving to have fun around the city. And the dog you carry with you will not help you.
Do not leave yourself.”
Looking to the side where Peter was turning, she saw a half-dirty factory man with a climbing head, which was worn somewhere in the city.
“This is – rather – she thought. “We and Count Vronsky didn’t find this pleasure either, although we expected a lot from him.”
And now, for the first time, Anna turned the bright light in which she saw everything, to her relationship with him, which she had avoided to think about.
What was he looking for in me?
Love is not as much as satisfaction.”
She remembered his words, the expression of his face, resembling the obedient law dog, in the first time of their relationship.
And now everyone has confirmed that.
“Yes, there was a celebration of glorious success.
Of course there was love, but a big part was the pride of success.
He praised me.
Now that has passed.
Be proud of nothing.
Not to be proud, but to be ashamed.
He took everything he could, and now I don’t need him.
He treats me and tries not to be unfair to me.
He spoke yesterday - he wants divorce and marriage to burn his ships.
He loves me, but how?
The Zest is gone.
This one wants to surprise everyone and is very pleased with herself, she thought, looking at a rumy narrative riding on a manic horse. That taste is not in me.
If I leave him, he will be glad in the depths of his soul.”
This was not an assumption—she clearly saw it in the penetrating light that now opened her the meaning of life and human relationships.
"My love is becoming more passionate and self-love, and it is all wiped and wiped, and that's why we're separated," she continued to think. And you can’t help it.
I have everything in him one, and I ask him to give me more and more.
More and more he wants to leave me.
We were just going to meet up to the connection, and then we continuously spread to different sides. And it cannot be changed.
He tells me that I am meaninglessly jealous, and I told myself that I am meaninglessly jealous; but that’s not true.
I am not jealous and I am unhappy.
But she opened her mouth and moved in the wheel from the excitement that suddenly came into her thought. If I could be something except a lover who loves passionately one of his loves; but I can and don’t want to be anything else.
And with this desire I raise hatred in it, and it is in me evil, and it cannot be otherwise.
Do I not know that he would not be going to cheat me, that he has no kinds of Sorokin, that he is not in love with Kitty, that he will not change me?
I know it all, but it is not easier for me.
If he, who does not love me, is good from debt, gentle to me, and does not have what I want, let it be a thousand times worse than evil!
This is hell!
And that is there.
He has not loved me for a long time.
Where love ends, there hatred begins.
I don’t know those streets.
There are mountains, there are houses, there are houses.
Everyone in the house, people...
How many of them, there is no end, and all hate each other.
Well, let me invent what I want to be happy. well?
I get a divorce, Alexey Alexandrovich gives me Sereza, and I’m married to Vronsky.”
Remembering Alexey Alexandrovich, she immediately with an unusual fever imagined him as alive, in front of herself, with his subtle, lifeless, silent eyes, blue wings on the white hands, intonations and the fever of the fingers, and, remembering the feeling that was between them and which was also called love, she dropped out of hatred.
“Well, I’ll get a divorce and I’ll be the wife of Vronsky.
Will Kitty stop looking at me as she looked at me today?
No is.
Serena will stop asking or thinking about my two men?
And between me and Vronsky, what new feeling will I find?
Is it possible that there is no happiness anymore, but not suffering?
No and no! — she answered herself now without any hesitation. It is impossible!
We disappear by life, and I do his misfortune, he is mine, and no one can make him or me.
All the trials were done, the wing swinged.
Poor with the child.
She thinks it is sad for her.
Are we not all left to the light then only to hate each other and thus torture ourselves and others?
The students go and laugh.
The network? She remembered. I also thought I loved him, and I was compassionate of my delicacy.
But I lived without him, and changed him to another love, and did not complain of that change until I was satisfied with that love.”
And she with hatred remembered what she called that love.
And the clarity with which she now saw her and all the people’s lives, gladed her.
"So I, and Peter, and the cheer Fedor, and this buyer, and all those people who live there on the Volga, where these announcements are invited, and everywhere, and ever," she thought, when she had already come to the low building of the Nizhny Novgorod station and to it the arterists fled.
Do you order up to the opium? Peter said.
She completely forgot where and why she was driving, and only with great effort could understand the question.
“Yes,” she said, giving him the wallet with the money, and, taking a small red bag in his hand, she went out of the wheel.
Going among the crowd in the first-class hall, she slowly reminded all the details of her position and the decisions between which she fled.
And again that hope, that despair in the old wounded places began to remove the wounds of her tortured, terribly trembling heart.
Sitting on a star-shaped sofa waiting for the train, she, with disgusting looking at the entering and outgoing (all of them were against her), thought about how she will come to the station, write a note to him and what she will write to him, how he now complains the mother (not understanding her suffering) on her position, and how she will enter the room, and what she will tell him.
She thought about how happy life could be, and how sadly she loves and hates it, and how terribly her heart bits.
The call spread, and some young men passed, ugly, narrow, and hurry, and together attentive to the impression they had made; and Peter passed through the hall in his libra and stamps, with a foolish animal face, and approached her to take her to the wagon.
The noise men were silent when she walked through them on the platform, and one was screaming something about her to another, of course, something ugly.
She climbed to a high staircase and sat alone in a cup on a brushed, once white sofa. The bag, dropped on the brushes, was relieved.
Peter with a foolish smile lifted his hat with a gallon to the window as a sign of goodbye, the naked conductor caught the door and the jacket.
The lady, ugly, with the tournament (Anna thoughtfully divided this woman and scared of her foolishness), and the girl unnaturally laughing, fled down.
Katarina Andreevna has everything with her, ma tante! The girl screamed.
“The girl – and she is crazy and blamed,” thought Anna.
To not see anyone, she quickly stood up and sat to the opposite window in the empty wagon.
The wicked man in the feedbox, from under which the swallowed hair was touched, passed through this window, hanging to the wheels of the wagon.
“There’s something that’s familiar with this wicked man,” Anna thought.
And, remembering her dream, she, drowning from fear, turned to the opposite door.
The driver opened the door, leaving his husband and his wife.
Do you want to go out?
Anna did not answer.
The driver and the enters did not notice the horror on her face.
She returned to her corner and village.
Cheta sat on the opposite side, carefully but hiddenly looking at her dress.
Both husband and wife seemed disgusting to Anne.
The husband asked if she allowed to smoke, obviously not to smoke but to talk to her.
Having her consent, he talked to his wife in French that he had to talk even less than smoking.
They spoke, pretending, stupidly, only so that she could hear.
Anna clearly saw how they were tired of each other and how they hate each other.
And it could not be without hating such unfortunate plants.
The second call was heard and followed by the movement of the luggage, noise, cry and laughter.
Anna was so clear that no one was happy, that the laughter irritated her to the pain, and she wanted to close her ears so that she didn’t hear it.
Finally, the third call was called, a whistle was spread, a steam was swallowed, the chain was broken, and the husband crossed.
"It would be interesting to ask him what he meant under this," - with a bad look at him, Anna thought.
She looked next to the lady in the window just as if the people were climbing back, driving the train and standing on the platform.
Equally drawing on the rails, the wagon, in which Anna was sitting, walked over the platform, the stone wall, the disk, over the other wagons; the wheels were more smooth and oil, with a light bell sounded over the rails, the window was lighted with a bright evening sun, and the wind played a hang.
Anna forgot her neighbors in the wagon and, by breathing fresh air into her, again began to think.
“Where did I stop?
To the fact that I cannot invent a situation in which life would not be a torture, that we are all created then to torture, and that we all know this and we all invent the means to deceive ourselves.
And when you see the truth, what do you do?"
“It gives a man reason to get rid of what worries him,” said the lady in French, obviously satisfied with her phrase and graceful with her language.
These words seemed to respond to the thought of Anna.
“To get rid of what worries,” Anna repeated.
And, looking at the red man and the poor wife, she realized that the painful wife considered herself an incomprehensible woman and the husband deceived her andined in her that opinion about herself.
Anna, as if she had seen their history and all their souls, moved the light on them.
But there was nothing interesting here, and she continued her thought.
“Yes, it worries me very much, and it gives reason to get rid of it; it has become, it has to get rid of it.
Why not shut down the candle when you look at nothing, when you look at it all?
But how?
Why did this driver run through the victim, why are they screaming, these young people in that wagon?
Why do they say why they laugh?
All is false, all is lies, all is fraud, all is evil.
When the train approached the station, Anna came out in a crowd of other passengers and, as from the passengers, leaving away from them, stopped on the platform, trying to remember why she came here and what she intended to do.
Everything she seemed possible before, now was so difficult to understand, especially in the noisy crowd of all these foolish people who did not leave her in peace.
The artillery fled to her, offering her their services; then the young men, clinging with cables on the plates of the platform and speaking loudly, looked at her, then the encounters stood not on the other side.
Remembering that she wanted to go further, if there was no answer, she stopped one artillery and asked if there was no cushion with a note to Count Vronsky.
The Count of Vronsky?
They were here now. They met the princess Sorokin with her daughter.
Which dog is it?
While she spoke with the artillery, the dog of Mikhail, ruminate, joyful, in the blue shell and chain, obviously proud that he so well fulfilled the order, approached her and submitted a note.
She printed, and her heart stumbled before she read.
“I am very sorry that the note didn’t stop me.
I will be at ten hours," Wronsky wrote with a negligent post.
“Yes! I was waiting for that!” She said to herself with a bad smile.
“Well, so go home,” she quietly spoke, turning to Michael.
She spoke quietly because her heartbreaking speed stopped her breathing.
“No, I won’t let you torture myself,” she thought, threatening not to him, not to herself, but to the one who forced her to torture, and went on the platform next to the station.
Two miners, walking on the platform, swallowed their heads back, looking at it, thinking something loudly about her toilet: "Real," they said about the circle that was on it.
The young people did not leave her in peace.
They again, looking at her face and with a laughter crying somewhat unnatural voice, passed through.
The head of the station passed and asked if she was going.
The boy, the vendor of the quasu, did not drop her eyes.
“My God, where am I?” As she went on the platform, she thought.
At the end she stopped.
The ladies and the children, who met the lord in their glasses and who laughed and spoke, silenced and looked at her when she was equal to them.
She accelerated the step and moved away from them to the edge of the platform.
A commodity train arrived.
The platform stumbled, and it seemed that she was going back.
And suddenly, remembering the depressed man on the day of her first meeting with Vronsky, she realized what she had to do.
With a quick, easy step down on the stairs that went from the waterfall to the railway, she stopped down right across her passing train.
She looked at a series of wagons, the wheels and chains, and the high wheels of the slowly climbing first wagon, and she tried to determine the middle between the front and the rear wheels, and the minute when the middle would be against her.
“There!” she spoke to herself, looking in the shadow of the wagon, on the coal-mixed sand, with which the shells were swallowed, there, in the middle, and I will punish him, and I will get rid of all and of myself.”
She wanted to fall under the middle of her first wagon. But the red bag, which she began to remove from her hand, stopped her, and it was too late: the middle passed her.
We had to wait for the next car.
A feeling similar to what she experienced when, bathing, she was preparing to enter the water, covered her, and she crossed.
The usual gesture of the cross sign caused a whole series of girl and child memories in her soul, and suddenly the darkness that covered everything for her broke down, and life presented her for a moment with all her bright passed joy.
But she didn’t drop her eyes from the wheels of the appropriate second wagon. And just at the moment that the middle between the wheels was equal to it, she dropped the red bag and, pressing her head into the shoulders, fell under the wagon on her hands and with a light movement, as if she was preparing to get up immediately, fell on her knees.
And at the same moment she was scared of what she did.
“Where am I?
What am I doing?
Why?”
She wanted to rise, to go away; but something huge, untouchable pushed her to the head and pushed her back.
“Lord, forgive me all!” She spoke, feeling the impossibility of fighting.
The man, judging something, worked on iron.
And the candle, in which she read a book filled with fear, deceit, anger and evil, blown out more bright than ever, with a light, illuminated her all that was before in the darkness, trembling, becoming dark, and forever drowned.
Part 8
It has been almost two months.
It was half a hot summer, and Sergey Ivanovich just now gathered to leave Moscow.
In Sergey Ivanovich's life, his events occurred during that time.
A year ago, his book, the fruit of six-year work, was completed with the title: "Experience of reviewing the foundations and forms of state in Europe and Russia."
Some sections of this book and the introduction were printed in contemporary publications, and other sections were read by Sergei Ivanovich to the people of his circle, so that the thoughts of this work could not be already a perfect news for the public; but yet Sergei Ivanovich expected that the book by its appearance should produce a serious impression on society and if not a shift in science, then in any case a strong excitement in the scientific world.
The book, after a thorough decoration, was published last year and sent to book sellers.
No one without asking about her, unwillingly and indifferently answering the questions of his friends about how his book goes, without asking even the bookmakers how it is purchased, Sergey Ivanovich starko, closely observed the first impression that his book will produce in society and literature.
But the week passed, the second, the third, and there was no noticeable impression in society; his friends, experts and scientists, sometimes, obviously, of kindness, talked about it. The rest of his acquaintances, not interested in the book of the scientist content, did not talk to him about it at all.
And in society, especially now occupied by others, there was complete indifference.
There was no word about the book in literature over the course of a month.
Sergey Ivanovich calculated the time needed to write the review, but a month passed, another, there was the same silence.
Only in the "Northern Joke" in the joke felleton about the singer Drabanti, who was sleeping from the voice, was by the way said a few negligent words about the book of Koznyshev, showing that this book has long been condemned by all and dedicated to universal laughter.
At the end of the third month, a critical article appeared in a serious magazine.
Sergey Ivanovich knew the author of the article.
He met him once at the bullshit.
The author of the article was a very young and sick feltonist, very boyfriend as a writer, but extremely little educated and slave in personal relationships.
Despite his prejudice to the author, Sergey Ivanovich began reading the article with full respect.
The article was terrible.
Obviously, the feltonist intentionally understood the whole book as it was impossible to understand it.
But he so gently picked out the scripts that for those who did not read the book (and obviously almost no one was reading it), it was quite clear that the whole book was nothing but a set of high-pared words, but still somewhat used (which showed questioning signs), and that the author of the book was a man completely ignorant.
And all this was so clever that Sergey Ivanovich himself would not give up such cleverness; but that was terrible.
Despite the perfect goodwill with which Sergey Ivanovich checked the righteousness of the arguments of the reviewer, he did not stop for a minute on the shortcomings and errors that were laughed, — it was too obvious that all of this was deliberately picked up — but immediately he unwillingly began to remember his meeting and conversation with the author of the article to the smallest details.
“Isn’t I hurt him anything?” He asked himself Sergey Ivanovich.
And, remembering how he corrected this young man in his ignorance, Sergey Ivanovich found an explanation for the meaning of the article.
After this article came a dead, and printed and outstanding silence about the book, and Sergey Ivanovich saw that his six-year work, produced with such love and effort, passed tracelessly.
Sergey Ivanovich's situation was even harder than the fact that, after completing the book, he had no more office work that took much of his time before.
Sergey Ivanovich was smart, educated, healthy, active and didn’t know where to use his entire activity.
Talks in hostels, congresses, meetings, committees, wherever it was possible to speak, took part of his time; but he, an ancient city resident, did not allow himself to go all into talks, as his unexperienced brother did when he was in Moscow; there was still a lot of mind and mind.
To his happiness, this is the hardest time for him because of the failure of his book time to replace the questions of foreigners, American friends, Samarian hunger, exhibitions, spiritism became the Slavic question, before it was just flooded in society, and Sergey Ivanovich, and before it was one of the triggers of this question, all was given to him.
In the midst of the people to whom Sergey Ivanovich belonged, at this time nothing else was spoken or written, as about the Slavic matter and the Serbian war.
Everything that a commonly holy crowd does, killing time, was now done in favour of the Slavs. Balls, concerts, lunch, spits, female costumes, beer, tractors — all showed sympathy to the Slavs.
With many of what was said and written about this case, Sergey Ivanovich was disagreeing in the details.
He saw that the Slavic question became one of those fashion hobbies, which always, changing one another, serve the society as a subject of occupation; he saw that there were many people, with useful, glorious purposes. who engaged in this matter.
He acknowledged that the newspapers printed a lot of unnecessary and exaggerated, with one purpose - to pay attention to themselves and to blame others.
He saw that at this general rise of society jumped forward and screamed louder than others all the failed and insulted: the chief commanders without the armies, the ministers without the ministries, the journalists without the magazines, the heads of the parties without the partisans.
He saw that there was a lot of easy-to-minded and funny; but he saw and acknowledged the undoubted, ever-growing enthusiasm that united all the classes of society, which could not be uncompatible.
The discourse of the unbelievers and the brothers of the Slavs caused sympathy to the suffering and anger to the disturbing.
And the heroism of the Serbs and Montenegro, struggling for the great thing, raised in all the people the desire to help their brothers no longer by word, but by work.
But there was another, pleasant phenomenon for Sergey Ivanovich: it was a manifestation of public opinion.
Society has expressed its desire.
The people’s soul was expressed, as Sergey Ivanovich said.
And the more he was engaged in this matter, the more obvious it seemed to him that it was a matter to get massive dimensions, to make an era.
He dedicated himself to the service of this great work and forgot to think about his book.
He was now busy all the time, so he failed to respond to all the letters and demands addressed to him.
After working all the spring and part of the summer, he only gathered in the month of July to go to the village to his brother.
He went to rest for two weeks and in the most holy holy people, in the village, to enjoy the sight of the rise of the people’s spirit, in which he and all the capital and city inhabitants were quite convinced.
Katavasov, who had long been planning to fulfill this Levin's promise to visit him, went with him.
Only Sergey Ivanovich and Katavasov managed to get to the especially lived today by the people of the station of the Kursk Railway and, coming out of the car, to look at the arrival with the things of the lake, how the volunteers arrived on four carriers.
The ladies with the bouquets met them and accompanied by the crowd who walked behind them entered the station.
One of the women who met the volunteers, coming out of the hall, addressed Sergey Ivanovich.
Have you come to spend too? She asked in French.
“No, I’m eating myself, Princess. Relax with my brother.
Are you always driving? - With a little noticeable smile, Sergey Ivanovich said.
I can’t! The princess answered. Is it true that we have eight hundred?
I didn’t believe Malvinsky.
More than eight hundred. If we count those who have been sent not directly from Moscow, there are already more than a thousand,” Sergey Ivanic said.
Well here.
I said it! - I grew the lady gladly. Is it true that about a million people have been donated?
More than the princess.
What is the current telegram?
They broke the Turks again.
“Yes, I read,” Sergey Ivanic replied.
They talked about the last telegram that confirmed that three days with the Turks were broken down at all points and fled and that tomorrow a decisive battle was expected.
“Oh, yeah, you know, one young man, beautiful, asked.
I don’t know why they made it difficult.
I wanted to ask you, I know him, please write a note.
He was sent by Count Lydia Ivanovna.
Asking the details that the princess knew about the asking young man, Sergey Ivanovich, passing into the first class, wrote a note to who it was dependent on, and gave it to the princess.
- You know, Count Vronsky, the famous... goes with this train, - said the princess with a celebrating and meaningful smile, when he found her again and sent her a note.
I heard he was going, but I didn’t know when.
With this train?
I saw him.
He is here; one mother leads him.
It was the best he could do.
Oh yes, of course.
As they spoke, the crowd walked alongside them to the dining table.
They also moved and heard the loud voice of one master who spoke with a glass in his hand to the volunteers. “To serve for faith, for mankind, for our brothers, all the voice is raised,” said the Lord. You are blessed by Mother Moscow.
and live!” He closed loud and tears.
Everyone was crying live! And a new crowd went into the hall and almost hit the princess.
A! What a princess! - glowing with a joyful smile, said Stepan Arkadić, who suddenly appeared in the middle of the crowd. “Is it not true, glorious, warm said?
Bravo is!
And Sergey Ivanovich!
Here you would say from yourself so — a few words, you know, encouragement; you are so good — he added with a gentle, respectful and cautious smile, slightly behind the hand moving Sergey Ivanovich.
No, I am going now.
Where to?
“In the village, to my brother,” Sergey Ivanovich replied.
You will see my wife. I wrote to her, but you’ll first see; please tell me what you’ve seen me and what’s all right.
She will understand.
And yet, tell her, be good that I am appointed a member of the Joint Committee...
Well, she will understand!
You know, les petites miseres de la vie humaine, -- as if apologizing, he turned to the princess. But the soft, not Lisa, but Bibi, sends a thousand weapons and twelve sisters.
I told you?
“Yes, I heard,” Koznyšev answered unwantedly.
“I’m sorry that you’re going,” said Stepan Arkadić. - Tomorrow we will give lunch to two travelers - Dimer-Bartnyansky from St. Petersburg and our Veselovsky, Grisha.
Both are going.
Veselovsky has recently married.
Here is the youth!
Is it true, Princess? He turned to the lady.
The princess, without answering, looked at Koznysheva.
But the fact that Sergey Ivanic and the princess seemed to want to separate from him did not disturb Stepan Arkadić.
He, smiling, looked at the princess's hat, then on the sides, as if something was reminded.
When he saw the passing lady with a circle, he suspected her to himself and placed a five-ruble paper.
“I can’t see these circles calmly as long as I have money,” he said. What is the current depth?
The young black people!
- What do you say? - he screamed when the princess told him that Vronsky was on the train.
For a moment the face of Stephan Arkadić expressed sadness, but after a minute, when, slightly shaking on each leg and spreading the backs, he entered the room where Vronsky was, Stephan Arkadić had already completely forgotten his desperate riding over the body of his sister and saw in Vronsky only a hero and a old friend.
“With all his shortcomings, it is impossible not to give him justice,” said the princess Sergey Ivanovich, as soon as Oblonsky left them. This is a very Russian, Slavic nature.
I am only afraid that Vronsky will be unpleasant to see him.
Whatever you say, I am touched by the fate of this man.
Talk to him, the princess said.
Yes, maybe if you have to.
I never loved him.
But it costs a lot.
He does not only go alone, but the squadron leads on his own account.
Yes, I heard it.
I heard the call.
Everyone climbed to the door.
The princess spoke, pointing at Vronsky, in a long jacket and in a black with wide fields, the hat of the thick under the hand with the mother.
Oblonsky walked under him, saying something vibrant.
Vronsky, turning down, looked in front of himself as if he did not hear what Stefan Arkadić said.
Probably, according to the instructions of Oblonsky, he looked to the side where the princess and Sergey Ivanovich stood, and silently lifted the hat.
The elderly and expressed suffering of his face seemed obscure.
Out on the platform, Vronsky silently, missing his mother, escaped in the vagon section.
On the platform was divided God, the king keeps, then the screams: Ura! and live!
One of the volunteers, a high, very young man with a falling chest, especially noticeably worshiped, wraping over his head with a warlocked hat and a buket.
There were two officers and an elderly man with a big beard, in a planted feed.
After apologizing to the princess, Sergey Ivanych, along with the nearby Katavasov, entered the battle-wrapped wagon, and the train drowned.
At the Tsaritsin Station the train was encountered by a narrow chore of young people singing: "Glory".
Again, volunteers worshipped and worshipped, but Sergey Ivanovich didn’t pay attention to them; he had so much to do with volunteers that he already knew their common type, and that didn’t interest him.
Katavasov, after his scientists did not have the opportunity to observe volunteers, was very interested in them and asked about them Sergey Ivanovich.
Sergey Ivanovich advised him to go to the second class to talk to them himself.
At the next station Katavasov fulfilled this council.
At the first stop he moved to the second class and met the volunteers.
They sat in the corner of the wagon, speaking loudly and obviously knowing that the attention of the passengers and the entering Katavasov was turned to them.
The most loud of all spoke a young man with a falling chest.
He was obviously drunk and talked about something that happened in their facility.
Against him was a young officer in the Austrian Military Foucault of the Guard Monder.
He smiled, listened to the narrative and stopped him.
The third, in the artillery mount, sat on the bag under them.
The fourth sleep.
In a conversation with the young man, Katavasov learned that he was a wealthy Moscow buyer who promoted a great state up to twenty-two years old.
He didn’t like Katavasov by being neglected, damaged, and poor in health; he was obviously confident, especially now, that he did a heroic act, and praised himself in the most unpleasant way.
Another, withdrawn officer, also made an unpleasant impression on Katavasov.
It was the man who tried everything.
He was both on the railway and managing, and he himself managed factory, and talked about everything, without any convenient and uncomfortable use of the words of the scientists.
The third, the artillery, on the contrary, liked Katavasov very much.
It was a modest, quiet man, apparently worshipped to the knowledge of the resigned guard and to the heroic sacrifice of the merchant, and he did not say anything about himself.
When Katavasov asked him what encouraged him to go to Serbia, he humbly replied:
Yes, they all go.
They also need to help the Serbs.
It is sad.
“Yes, especially your artillery there is little,” Katavasov said.
I have not served for a long time in the artillery; maybe, in the infantry or in the cavalry will be appointed.
What about the infantry when the artillery is most needed? - Katavasov said, considering the artiller's years that he should be already in a significant action.
“I’ve not served much in artillery, I’m a junker in resignation,” he said and began to explain why he didn’t stand the exam.
All this together made Katavasov an unpleasant impression, and when the volunteers went out to the drinking station, Katavasov wanted to believe his unfavourable impression in a conversation with someone.
One passing old man in a military jacket all the time listened to the conversation of Katavasov with the volunteers: Leaving with him one-on-one, Katavasov addressed him.
“Yes, what a diversity of the positions of all these people who are going there,” Katavasov said uncertainly, wanting to express his opinion and at the same time to express the opinion of the old man.
The old man was a military man who performed two campaigns.
He knew what a military man was, and, according to the sight and speech of these lords, according to the charity with which they applied to the flag of the road, he considered them bad soldiers.
In addition, he was a resident of a remote city, and he wanted to tell him how a deadly soldier, a drunk and a thief, went out of his city, which no one had taken into the workers.
But, by experience knowing that with the current mood of society it is dangerous to express an opinion contrary to the general, and in particular to condemn volunteers, he also looked at Katavasov. There are people in need. The Serbian officers are not suitable.
“Oh, yes, and these will be lysia,” said Katavasov, laughing with his eyes.
And they talked about the latest military news, and both hid their confusion before each other about who is expected to fight tomorrow, when the Turks, according to the latest news, are broken in all points.
After they did not express their opinion, they divided.
Katavasov, entering his wagon, unwillingly guilting his soul, told Sergey Ivanovich his observations on the volunteers, from which it turned out that they were great guys.
On the big station in the city again singing and screaming met volunteers, again appeared with circles of collectors and collectors, and the Governor's ladies brought bouquets to volunteers and went for them to the buffet; but all this was already much weaker and less than in Moscow.
During the stop in the governor city, Sergey Ivanovich did not go to the buffet, but began to walk back and forward on the platform.
Walking through the Vronsky department for the first time, he noticed that the window was delayed.
But passing another time, he saw an old graphene in the window.
She suspected Koznysheva.
“I’m going to eat, I’m going to take him to Kursk,” she said.
“Yes, I heard,” said Sergey Ivanovich, staying at her window and looking into it. - What a wonderful feature from his side! - he added, noticing that Vronsky was not in the department.
After his misfortune, what did he do?
What a terrible event! - said Sergey Ivanovich.
Oh what I survived!
Go in...
Oh that I survived! She repeated when Sergey Ivanovich entered and sat next to her on the sofa. This cannot be imagined!
Six weeks he didn’t talk to anyone and ate only when I prayed for him.
I could not leave him alone for a minute.
We picked out everything he could kill himself; we lived in the lower floor, but there was nothing to predict.
“For you know, he has been shot once because of her,” she said, “and the old woman’s frogs have been overwhelmed with this memory. - Yes, she ended, as she should have died such a woman.
Even death she chose the underlying, low.
“Don’t judge us, Count,” Sergey Ivanovich said, “but I understand how hard it was for you.
Oh, don’t talk about it!
I lived in my name, and he was with me.
They bring a note.
He wrote the answer and sent it.
We didn’t know she was at the station.
In the evening, I just went to myself, my Mary tells me that the lady was thrown down the train on the station.
Something hit me! I realized that it was she.
The first thing I said was not to say to him.
But they told him.
The dog was there and saw it all.
When I fled to his room, he was no longer his — it was terrible to look at him.
He didn’t say a word and jumped there.
I don’t know what was there, but he was brought as dead.
I’t know him.
Prostration is complete, said the doctor.
Then almost anger began. — Oh, what to say! — said the Count, throwing his hand. A terrible time!
No, as you say, a bad woman.
Well, what passions are some desperate.
This is something special to prove.
That’s what she has proved.
She also killed two beautiful men, her husband and my unhappy son.
What about her husband? Asked by Sergey Ivanovich.
He took her daughter.
Alisha first agreed on everything.
But now he is terribly tortured that he gave his daughter to a stranger.
But he cannot take the word back.
Karenin came to the funeral. But we tried to make sure he didn’t meet Alexa.
For him, for his husband, it is easier.
She separated him.
But my poor son gave up all of her.
He broke everything—the career, me, and here she did not regret him yet, but deliberately killed him at all.
No, whatever you say, her greatest death is the death of a foolish woman without religion.
God forgive me, but I can't hate her memory, looking at the death of my son.
But how is he now?
This God has helped us, this Serbian war.
I’m an old man, I don’t understand anything about it, but God has sent it to him.
Of course, I, as a mother, am scared; and most importantly, they say, ce n'est pas tres bien vu a Petersbourg.
But what to do!
One thing could raise him.
Yashvin - his friend - he lost everything and gathered to Serbia.
He came to him and agreed to him.
Now it takes him.
Please talk to him, I want to have him fun.
He is so sad.
In trouble, his teeth were sick.
He will be very happy to you.
Please talk to him, he’s going on this side.
Sergey Ivanovich said he was very happy and went to the other side of the train.
In the hairy evening shade of the balls swallowed on the platform, Vronsky in his long jacket and overwhelmed hat, with his hands in pockets, walked like a beast in the cage, twenty steps quickly turning.
Sergey Ivanovich, when he approached, appeared that Vronsky saw him, but appeared to be invisible.
Sergei Ivanovich was the same.
He stood above any personal accounts with Vronsky.
At that moment, Vronsky in the eyes of Sergey Ivanovich was an important actor for the great deal, and Koznyšev considered his duty to encourage him and approve him.
He approached him.
Vronsky stopped, looked, knew, and, having made a few steps to meet Sergey Ivanovich, strongly and firmly stretched his hand.
“Maybe you didn’t want to see me,” Sergey Ivanic said, “but can’t I be helpful to you?
“Nobody can be so unpleasant to see me with anyone like you,” Wronsky said. Sorry to me.
I have no pleasant life.
“I understand and I wanted to offer you my services,” Sergey Ivanovich said, looking at the obviously suffering face of Vronsky. Do you need a letter to Ristić, to Milan?
Oh no no! As if it was hard to understand, Wronsky said. If you don’t care, let’s go.
This is a spirit in the wagons.
The letter?
No, thank you; to die, you don’t need advice.
Something to the Turks,” he said, smiling with one mouth.
The eyes continued to have a painful expression.
- Yes, but you may be easier to enter into relationships that are still necessary, with a prepared person.
But as you want.
I was very happy to hear about your decision.
And so many attacks on volunteers that a person like you raises them in the public opinion.
“I, as a man,” Wronsky said, “is so good that life is nothing worth me. And that the physical energy in me is enough to get in a punishment and to blame or lie, I know it.
I’m glad that there’s something to give my life, which is not what I don’t need, but it’s cool.
Somebody will benefit. And he made the impatient movement of the skull from the uninterrupted, painful tooth, which prevented him from even speaking with the expression he wanted.
“You will resurrect, I predict you,” Sergey Ivanovich said, feeling troubled. Rescue your brothers from the yoga is a purpose worthy of death and life.
God give you the success of the external – and the inner world – he added and stretched his hand.
Vronsky strongly grew the stretched hand of Sergey Ivanovich.
Yes, as a weapon, I can fit something.
But, as a man, I was ruined, with discouragement he spoke.
The shining pain of a strong tooth, filling his mouth with slurry, prevented him from speaking. He was silent, looking into the wheels slowly and smoothly on the rails of the tender.
And suddenly a completely different, not the pain, but the general painful inner discomfort forced him to forget for a moment the pain of the tooth. When he looked at the tender and the rails, under the influence of the conversation with a acquaintance with whom he did not meet after his misfortune, he suddenly remembered that, that is, what was still left of it, when he, as a crazy, fled into the railway station's cabin: on the cabin's table unhappyly stretched in the midst of the strangers the bloody body, still full of recent life; thrown back the surviving head with its heavy hair and swallowing hair on the whiskey, and on a beautiful face, with a half-open rubble mouth, frozen the strange, sadly in the lips and terribly stumbling in the uncovered eyes, the expression, as you would say in the words, that he was told about the time.
And he tried to remember her as she was when he first met her also on the station, a mysterious, beautiful, loving, seeking and giving happiness, and not the cruel and vengeance she remembered him in the last minute.
He tried to remember the best minutes with her, but those minutes were forever poisoned.
He remembered her only celebrating, faced a threat of no need, but irresistible regret to anyone.
He ceased to feel the pain of his tooth, and the rashes curved his face.
Passing silence twice under the balls and mastering himself, he calmly addressed Sergey Ivanovich:
Did you have telegrams after yesterday?
Yes, they are broken for the third time, but tomorrow a decisive battle is expected.
And, talking about the proclamation by the king of Milan and the enormous consequences that it could have, they split on their wagons after the second call.
Not knowing when he will be able to leave Moscow, Sergey Ivanovich did not telegraph his brother to send him out. Levin was not at home when Katavasov and Sergey Ivanovich on the tarantasy taken at the station, dried like the Arabs, at the twelve hour of the day came to the wing of the cover house.
Kitty, sitting on the balcony with her father and sister, knew the dewer and fled down to meet him.
“How do you not consciously don’t know,” she said, giving the hand to Sergei Ivanovich and putting his forehead.
“We arrived well and didn’t bother you,” Sergey Ivanovich replied. I'm so dirty that I'm afraid to be touched.
I was so busy that I didn’t know when I would break.
And you old, — said he smiling, — enjoy the quiet happiness outside the flow in your quiet cave.
Here is our friend Fedor Vasilich finally gathered.
“But I’m not a black man, I’m tired – I’ll be like a man,” Katavasov said with his usual joke, giving his hand and smiling with the teeth especially brilliant because of his black face.
The bone will be very pleased.
He went to Houtor.
It would be time for him to come.
Everything is about farming.
Here’s in the Gulf,” said Katavasov. We do not see anything in the city, except the Serbian war.
How does my friend behave?
Something is not like people?
“Yes, he’s so, nothing like everyone,” Kitty replied, looking somewhat confused at Sergey Ivanovich. So I will send him.
My dad is a guest.
He has recently arrived from abroad.
And, ordered to send for Levin and to spend dirty guests washing, one in the cabin, the other in the big Dolina room, and for breakfast to guests, she, enjoying the right of the fast movements she was deprived of during her pregnancy, fled to the balcony.
“This is Sergey Ivanovich and Katavasov, Professor,” she said.
Oh, it is hard in the heat! The prince said.
“No, Dad, he’s very cute, and Kosta loves him very much, as if he’s asking him about something, smiling,” Kitty said, noticing the expression of laughter on the father’s face.
I am nothing.
“You go to them, my sister,” Kitty turned to her sister, “and borrow them.
They saw Steve at the station, he was healthy.
I will escape to Mith.
Unfortunately, she did not feed from the tea itself.
He was awake, and he was crying. And she, feeling the flood of milk, quickly went to the children's room.
Indeed, she wasn’t what she guessed (this relationship with the child was not yet broken), she really learned from the flood of milk that she had a lack of food in him.
She knew he was screaming before she came to the childhood.
In fact, he was screaming.
She heard his voice and added a step.
But the faster he went, the louder he was crying.
The voice was good, healthy, hungry and impatient.
For a long time, grandmother? She quickly spoke to Kitty, sitting on a chair and preparing for food. Give me it faster. Oh my grandmother, how tired you are, well, after the cheek bind!
The child was overwhelmed by a thirsty cry.
“You can’t, mom,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna, who was almost always present in the children’s room. It needs to be removed in order.
Ah Ah Ah Ah Ah! She sang on him without paying attention to her mother.
The grandmother brought the child to her mother. Agaphya Mikhailovna followed him with a dissolved face.
He knows, he knows.
Believe God, Mother Catherine Alexandrovna, you know me! She screamed Agatha Mikhailovna's child.
But Kitty did not listen to her words.
Her intolerance grew as much as the child’s intolerance.
The matter could not be resolved for a long time.
The child didn’t have what it needed and was angry.
Finally, after a desperate breathing scream, an empty blurry, the thing went well, and the mother and the child simultaneously felt calm and both silenced.
“But he, a poor woman, is all in dirt,” Kitty said with a scream, spotting the child. Why do you think he will know? She added, cushed on the plutovsky, as it seemed to her, looking from under the overwhelming cheek the eye of the child, on the uniformly swallowed clothes and on his hand with a red hand, which he made circular movements.
It cannot be!
If he knew, he would know me," Kitty told Agaphya Mikhailovna and smiled.
She smiled that, although she said that he can’t recognize, with her heart she knew that not only he will recognize Agaphy Mikhailovna, but that he knows everything and understands, and knows and understands much more of something that no one knows and that she, mother, herself knew and began to understand only through him.
For Agaphia Mikhailovna, for the grandmother, for the grandfather, for the father, even Mithia was a living being, requiring only material care; but for the mother, he has long been a moral being, with whom has already been a whole history of spiritual relations.
And he will wake up, God will give, you will see.
As I do this, it will shine like that, butterfly.
So it shines, as the day is clear,” said Agaphya Mikhailovna.
“Well, okay, then we’ll see,” Kitty screamed. Now go, he is sleeping.
Agaphya Mikhailovna went out on the chickens; the grandmother dropped the straw, throwed the muck from under the chicken floor of the bed and the shrimp, struggling for the glass of the frame, and the village, wrapping a bridge-wrapping branch over the mother and the child.
It is hot, it is hot!
Even if God gave the rain, she said.
-Yes, yes, sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-
That hand was disturbing Kitty: she wanted to kiss that hand, but she was afraid to do so in order not to wake the child up.
The hand finally stopped moving and the eyes closed.
Only occasionally, continuing his work, the child, lifting up his long swallowed bracelets, looked at the mother in half-light with black, wet eyes.
My grandmother stopped and slept.
From above, the voice of the old prince and the hatred of Katavasov was heard.
“Well, they’ve talked without me,” Kitty thought, “but it’s annoying that Kosti isn’t.
I went to the bees again.
Although sad that he is often there, I am still happy.
It entertains him.
Now he’s getting more fun and better than in the spring.
And then he was so dark and so sad that I was scared for him.
And how funny it is!” She screamed, smiling.
She knew that her husband was suffering.
That was his unbelief.
Despite the fact that if she was asked whether she believed that in the future life he, if he did not believe, would be destroyed, she would have to agree that he would be destroyed — his uncertainty did not make her unhappy; and she, acknowledging that the unbeliever cannot be saved, and loving mostly the soul of her husband, with a smile thought of his uncertainty and said to herself that he was funny.
“Why did he read some philosophy all the years? She thought. If all this is written in these books, he can understand them.
If it is wrong, why do you read it?
He says he wants to believe.
So why does he not believe?
Is it because he thinks a lot?
He thinks a lot about loneliness.
All one, one one.
He cannot talk to us all.
I think these guests will be pleasant to him, especially Katavas.
He loves to argue with him," she thought and immediately moved the thought to where it was more convenient to put Katavasov in bed, either separately or with Sergey Ivanic.
And here suddenly a thought came to her, forcing her to get out of anxiety and even annoy Mitty, who strictly looked at her for that.
“The laundry seems not to bring clothes yet, and for guests the bed clothes are all in expenditure.
If not ordered, Agaphya Mikhailovna will give Sergei Ivanic steel clothes," - and with one thought of this, the blood was thrown into Kitty's face.
“Yes, I’m ordering,” she decided and, returning to the previous thoughts, remembered that something important, spiritual was not yet thought, and she began to remember what.
“Yes, the bone of the unbeliever,” she remembered again with a smile.
“Well the unbeliever!
It’s better to let him always be like Madame Stall or what I wanted to be then abroad.
No, he won’t pretend anymore.”
And the recent trait of his kindness lived in front of her.
Two weeks ago, Stephan Arkadić received a curious letter to Dolly.
He asked her to save his honor, to sell her property to pay his debt.
Dolly was desperate, hated her husband, hated, regretted, decided to divorce, refuse, but ended with agreeing to sell part of her property.
After that, with an unwilling smile of compassion, Kitty recalled the confusion of her husband, his repeated unpleasant approaches to his affairs, and as he eventually invented the only way, without offending, to help Dolly, proposed Kitty to give her his part of the name, which she had not previously guessed.
Who is the unbeliever?
With his heart, with this fear to anger someone, even a child!
Everything for others, nothing for yourself.
Sergey Ivanovich thus thinks that it is the duty of Kosti - to be his speaker. And my sister too.
Now Dolly with his children in his custody.
All these men who come to him every day, as if he should serve them.”
“Yes, just be like your father, just like that,” she spoke, transmitting Mitu to her sister and touching her lips to his head.
From the moment when he saw his beloved dead brother, Levin first looked at the questions of life and death through the new, as he called them, beliefs that in a period of twenty to thirty-four years unseenly replaced his childhood and youth beliefs, he was scared not as much of death as life without the least knowledge of where, for what, why and what it is.
The body, its destruction, the immortality of matter, the law of strength preservation, development, were the words that replaced it with its former faith. These words and related concepts were very good for intellectual purposes; but for life they gave nothing, and Levin suddenly felt himself in the position of a man who would change a warm shrub into a cheese clothes and who for the first time in the cold without a doubt, not by reasoning, but by his whole being, would make sure that he was still naked and that he must inevitably die painfully.
Since that moment, though not giving himself in that report and continuing to live, Levin has not ceased to feel that fear for his ignorance.
Moreover, he confusedly felt that what he called by his beliefs was not only ignorance, but that it was such a stock of thought in which it was impossible to know what he needed.
The first time of marriage, the new joys and duties they have known, have completely overwhelmed these thoughts; but in recent times, after the birth of his wife, when he lived in Moscow without business, Levin has become more and more frequent, more urgent and more urgent to present the question that demands a solution.
The question for him was: "If I don't recognize the answers that Christianity gives to the questions of my life, what answers will I recognize?"
And he could not find in the entire arsenal of his beliefs not only any answers, but nothing like a response.
He was in the position of a man looking for food in toys and weapons stores.
Unintentionally, unconsciously for himself, he was now seeking in every book, in every conversation, in every man a relationship to these issues and a solution to them.
At the same time he was most surprised and frightened by the fact that the majority of the people of his circle and age, replacing, like him, the previous beliefs the same as him, with new beliefs, did not see any trouble in it and were completely satisfied and calm.
So, in addition to the main question, Levin suffered other questions: are these people honest? Are they not pretending? Or does not otherwise, clearer than he, they understand the answers that science gives to his questions?
And he carefully studied the opinions of these people and the books that expressed these answers.
One thing he found since these questions began to occupy him was that he was mistaken, assuming by the memories of his youth, university circle that religion had survived its time and that it no longer exists.
All the good people who were close to him believed. And the old prince, and Lev, who so loved him, and Sergei Ivanic, and all the women believed, and his wife believed as he believed in his first childhood, and nine hundred and nine hundred of the Russian people, all the people whose life gave him the greatest respect, believed.
Another thing was that, despite many books, he was convinced that people who shared the same views with him did not mean anything else under them and that they, without explaining anything, only denied those questions without answering which he felt that he could not live, but tried to solve completely other questions that could not interest him, such as, for example, the development of organisms, the mechanical explanation of the soul, etc.
In addition, during the birth of his wife, an unusual event happened to him.
He, the unbeliever, began to pray, and at the moment he prayed, he believed.
But that minute passed, and he couldn’t give that then mood any place in his life.
He could not acknowledge that he knew the truth then, and now he is wrong, because as soon as he began to think calmly about it, everything broke down; he could not acknowledge that he was wrong then, because he loved the soul mood at that time, and by acknowledging it with the donation of weakness, he would dirty those minutes.
He was in painful trouble with himself and stressed all his soul forces to get out of him.
These thoughts shaken and suffered him the weaker, the stronger, but never left him.
He read and thought, and the more he read and thought, the more he felt from the goal he was pursuing.
Recently in Moscow and in the village, convinced that he will not find the answer in the materialists, he has read and re-read both Plato, and Spinoza, and Kant, and Shelling, and Hegel, and Schopenhauer — those philosophers who did not materialistically explain life.
Thoughts seemed fruitful to him when he either read, or himself invented rejection against other doctrines, especially against the materialist; but once he read, or himself invented a solution to questions, the same thing was always repeated.
Following this definition of unclean words, such as spirit, will, freedom, substance, intentionally stumbling into the slope of words that the philosophers put him or himself, he began as if something was understood.
But it was worth forgetting the artificial course of thought and returning from life to what he satisfied when he thought, following that thread—and suddenly all this artificial building collapsed like a card house, and it was clear that the building was made of the same restored words, regardless of something more important in life than the mind.
One time, reading Schopenhauer, he put on the place of his will, love, and this new philosophy of the day for two, until he turned away from it, comforted him; but it was exactly the same as it fell when he then looked at it from life, and turned out to be a cheese, unheating clothes.
Brother Sergey Ivanovich advised him to read the theological works of Homyakov.
Levin read the second volume of Homyakov's works and, despite his first polemic, elegant and sharp tone, he was impressed in them by the teaching of the church.
He was first impressed by the idea that the understanding of the divine truths is not given to man, but is given to a group of people united by love, the church.
He was pleased with the thought of how easier it was to believe in the existing, now living church, which constitutes all the faith of the people, which has in the head of God and therefore holy and unmistakable, from it already to accept faith in God, in creation, in fall, in redemption, than to start with God, a distant, mysterious god, creation, etc.
But, after reading the history of the church of the Catholic writer and the history of the church of the Orthodox writer and seeing that the two churches, unmistakable in their essence, deny each other, he was disappointed in the Homyakov teaching of the church, and this building was dissolved with the same dust as the philosophical buildings.
This whole spring he was not his man and experienced terrible minutes.
Without knowing what I am and why I am here, I cannot live.
And I can't know that, therefore I can't live," Levin said to himself.
“In the infinite time, in the infinity of matter, in the infinite space, the bubble-organism is separated, and this bubble is undertaken and broken, and this bubble is me.”
It was a painful falsehood, but it was the only, last result of the centuries of work of human thought in this direction.
This was the last belief on which all, in all industries, searches of human thought were built. It was a ruling belief, and Levin, from all the other explanations, as yet clearer, unwillingly, without knowing when and how, learned exactly this.
But it was not only false, it was a cruel laughter of some evil force, evil, opponent, and one that could not be obedient.
We had to get rid of that strength.
The salvation was in the hands of everyone.
We had to stop this dependency from evil. There was one means – death.
And, a happy family man, a healthy man, Levin was several times so close to suicide that he hidden the thread so that he didn’t hang on it, and feared to walk with a gun so that he didn’t shoot.
But Levin didn’t shoot and didn’t hang and continued to live.
When Levin thought about what he was and what he was living for, he didn’t find the answer and came in desperation; but when he stopped asking himself about it, he seemed to know what he was and what he was living for, because he acted and lived firmly and firmly; even in this recent time he lived much more firmly and firmly than before.
After returning to the village in early June, he returned to his usual classes. The countryside, the relations with the husband and neighbors, the household, the affairs of the sister and brother, which he had on his hands, the relations with his wife, the relatives, the care of the child, the new bees hunting, which he has taken over from this spring, took all his time.
These affairs occupied him not because he justified them for himself by some common views, as he did it before; on the contrary, now, on the one hand, disappointed by the failure of the previous enterprises for the common benefit, on the other hand, too busy with his thoughts and the most affairs that from all sides invaded on him, he completely left all considerations about the common benefit, and these affairs occupied him only because he thought he had to do what he did—that he could not do otherwise.
Before (this began almost from childhood and all grew up to full marriage), when he tried to do something that would do good for all, for mankind, for Russia, for the whole village, he noticed that thoughts about it were pleasant, but the activity itself was always uncomplicated, there was no complete confidence in what it was necessary, and the activity itself, which seemed to be so big at first, all decreased and decreased, fell to no; now, when he after marriage became more and more limited by life for himself, he, although he had no more joy in thinking about his activity, felt the confidence that his thing was needed, that it was much better than it was before, and that it was more and more.
Now he, contrary to his will, was smashing deeper and deeper into the earth, like a flood, so that he could not get out without opening the burrows.
To live the family as the fathers and grandparents used to live, that is, in the same conditions of education and in the same to raise children, was undoubtedly necessary.
It was as necessary as to eat when you want to eat; and for this it was as necessary as to prepare lunch, it was necessary to drive a business car in Pokrovsky so that there were revenue.
Like undoubtedly, how to give the debt, it was necessary to keep the land in such a position that the son, having it in heritage, said the same thanks to the father as Levin said thanks to the grandfather for all that he arranged and planted.
And for this, it was necessary not to give the land to the land, but to own the land, to hold the livestock, to flourish the fields, to plant the forests.
You can’t do the affairs of Sergey Ivanovich, sisters, all the men who followed the advice and used to it, how you can’t leave the child you already hold on your hands.
It was necessary to take care of the comforts of the invited family with children and the wife with the child, and it was not possible not to be with them at least a small part of the day.
And all this, along with the hunting of the wild and the new hunting of the bees, filled the whole life of Levin, which had no meaning for him when he thought.
But besides that Levin knew firmly what he had to do, he knew exactly how he had to do all this and what was more important than the other.
He knew that to hire the workers should be as cheap as possible; but to take them into the cabal, giving the money ahead, cheaper than they cost, it should not be, though it was very profitable.
It was possible to sell the salmon to the men, even though it was unfortunate for them; but the stable garden and the drinking, even though they delivered income, had to be destroyed.
For the destruction of the forests it was necessary to be sought as strict as possible, but for the harvested sheep it was not possible to take the penalties, and although it angered the carriers and destroyed the fear, it was not possible not to leave the harvested sheep.
Peter, who paid the grower ten percent a month, had to be borrowed to buy it; but it was not possible to drop down and delay the meal to the non-payers.
It could not be missed by the speaker that the grass was not stumbled and the grass was lost; but it could not be stumbled eighty dozen, on which the young forest was planted.
It could not be forgiven to the worker who went home to work because his father died, no matter how unfortunate it was, and it had to be counted cheaper for the expensive months of walking; but it could not be possible not to give the months to the old, not to the unnecessary courtyard.
Levin also knew that when he returned home, he had to first go to a woman who was unhealthy; and the men who had been waiting for him for three hours could still wait; and he knew that, despite all the pleasure they experienced in the planting of the roya, he had to lose that pleasure and, allowing the old man to plant the roya without himself, go to interpret with the men who found it on the bee.
Well, whether he did badly, he didn’t know and not only would not be able to prove now, but avoided conversations and thoughts about it.
The judgments brought him into doubt and prevented him from seeing what should and what should not.
When he did not think, but lived, he continued to feel in his soul the presence of an unmistakable judge, who decided which of the two possible acts was better and which worse; and once he did wrong, he immediately felt that.
So he lived, without knowing and without seeing the possibility of knowing what he is and for what he lives in the world, and suffering by this ignorance to such a degree that he feared suicide, and at the same time firmly placing his special, certain path in life.
The day that Sergey Ivanovich arrived in Pokrovskaya, Levin was in one of his most painful days.
It was the most urgent working time when in all the peoples there is such unusual stress of self-offering in the work which is not manifested in any other conditions of life and which would be highly valuable if the people who show these qualities would appreciate them themselves, if it did not repeat every year and if the consequences of this stress were not so simple.
Getting and pressing the grapes and the oats and the grapes, touching the grape, moving the pair, melting the seeds and sowing the ozyme — all this seems simple and ordinary; and to be able to do all this, it is necessary that all the village people, from the old to the small, work without ceasing in these three to four weeks three times more than usual, eating quas, cabbage and black bread, melting and driving snopes at night and sleeping not more than two to three hours a day.
This is done every year throughout Russia.
Having spent most of his life in the village and in close ties with the people, Levin always felt at work that this common popular excitement was communicated to him.
From the morning he went to the first seed of rji, to the sheep, which were driven to the squares, and, returning home to the rise of his wife and her sister, drinked coffee with them and went on foot to the huter, where they had to leave the re-installed melt for the preparation of seeds.
The whole day this Levin, speaking with the speaker and the men, and at home speaking with his wife, with Dolly, with her children, with the test, thought of one and one that occupied him at that time in addition to economic concerns, and in everything sought a relationship to his question: "What am I? And where am I? Why am I here?”
Standing in the cold of a re-covered rig with the untouched, yet fragile leaf of the lens, pressed to the blurred fresh axis traces of the slurry roof, Levin looked through the open doors, in which the dry and gorgeous dust of the slurry, on the hot sun-lighted grass of rubber and fresh salt, just taken out of the saray, then on the pestro-headed white-growed spots, with the adhesive entering under the roof and, trembling with the wings, staying in the bridges of the door, on the people, cutting in the dark and dust, and the thoughts of the countries.
“Why is all this done? He thought. Why do I stand here, make them work?
What are they all worried about and trying to show up to me?
What is this old Matthew, my acquaintance? (I treated her when a mother fell on her in the fire), — he thought, looking at the weak grandmother, who, moving the grains, tightly stumbled with black-burned boss legs on an irregular hard stream. “Then she healed; but not today and tomorrow, after ten years, she will be buried, and nothing will be left of her, nor of that dwarf in the red pine, which with such a gentle, gentle movement throws out of the soft column.
And it is buried, and the pedal of this swallowed nails is a horse that passes through the wheel that moves from under it. And it will be buried, and Fedor, the deceiver, will be buried with his chicken, full of soft beard, and broken on the white shoulder with a shirt.
And he breaks the snopes, and something commands, and screams on the grandmother, and quickly runs the belt on the macho wheel.
And most importantly, not only them, but I will be buried, and nothing will be left.
For what?”
He thought that, and at the same time looked at the clock to calculate how much the clock would be in a hour.
He had to know this so that, judging by this, he had to give a lesson for a day.
"It's about an hour, and they've just started the third land," Levi's thought, approached the dealer, and, screaming the wreck of the car, told him that he should run less.
You’re giving a lot, Fedor.
You see it stops, so it’s not slow.
Balance it!
Fedor, who scratched from the dust to the swollen face, screamed something in response, but he did everything wrong as Levin wanted.
Levin, coming to the bubble, removed Fedor and took himself to submit.
Working before the meal of the man, which was not long before, he with the supplier came out of the rig and spoke, stopping under the flowed to the seeds of the accurated yellow squirt of gray rji.
The supplier was from the remote village, from the one in which Levin previously gave the land at the beginning of the art.
Now she was given to the palace.
Levin spoke with the founder Fedor about this land and asked if it would not take the land for the next year Platon, the rich and good man of the same village.
“The price of the road, Plato’s not to give up, Constantine Dmitrych,” the man answered, choosing the wheel from the sweat puzzle.
How does Kirill get rid of it?
- Mituhe (so negligently called the man of the palace), Konstantin Dmitrić, how not to give up!
He will try and choose.
He will not regret the peasant.
And the uncle Fokanic (so he called the old Plato) will be drawing the skin from man? Where in debt, where in debt.
Anne will not get. Also a man.
Why is he going to go down?
“Yes, it means, people are different; one person only lives for his needs, even if Mitucha, only burns, and Fokanic is a true old man.
He lives for the soul. God remembers it.
How does God remember?
How does the soul live? She almost screamed Levin.
It is known as, in truth, by God.
People are different.
Even if you take you, don’t hurt anyone either.
- Yes, yes, goodbye! - said Levin, breathing out of anxiety, and, turning back, took his palm and quickly went away to the house.
A new joy embraces Levine. In the words of the man that Fokanic lives for the soul, in truth, in goddess, unclean, but significant thoughts by the crowd as if they broke out somewhere and, all pursuing one goal, rounded in his head, blinding him with his light.
Levin walked big steps on the big path, listening not so much to his thoughts (he could not yet understand them), but to a mental state that had never been experienced before.
The words said by the man produced in his soul the effect of an electric lightning, which suddenly transformed and united into one whole row of divided, impotent individual thoughts, which never ceased to occupy him.
These thoughts unnoticably occupied him himself and in the time he spoke about giving the earth.
He felt something new in his soul and with pleasure felt this new, without knowing what it was.
“It is not for your needs to live, but for God. For what god?
for God.
What is more meaningless than what he said?
He said we don’t have to live for our needs, that is, we don’t have to live for what we understand, what attracts us, what we want, but we have to live for something incomprehensible, for God, which no one can understand or determine.
And what?
I didn’t understand these meaningless words of Fedor?
Do you doubt their justice? Did you find them stupid, unclear, inaccurate?
No, I understood him and completely as he understands, understood quite and clearer than I understand something in life, and never in life I doubted and I can’t doubt it.
And I’m not alone, but all, the whole world understands one and in one they do not doubt and always agree.
Fedor says that Kirillov, the palace, lives for the abdomen.
This is understandable and reasonable.
We all, as intelligent beings, cannot live otherwise than for the abdomen.
And suddenly the same Fedor says that it is bad for the stomach to live, but it is necessary to live for the truth, for God, and I understand it with insight!
And I and the millions of people who lived centuries ago and now, men who are poor in spirit and wise, who thought and wrote about it, who speak the same in their unclear language, we all agree in one thing: what to live and what to be good.
I, with all men, have only one firm, undoubted and clear knowledge, and this knowledge cannot be explained by reason – it is outside it and has no reason and cannot have any consequences.
If good has a cause, it is no longer good; if it has a consequence - a reward, it is also not good.
It was good outside the chain of causes and consequences.
I know him, and we all know him.
And I was looking for miracles, regreted that I had not seen a miracle that would convince me.
But here is the miracle, the only possible, constantly existing, from all sides surrounding me, and I have not noticed it!
What might be more miracle than that?
Have I found the solution of all things, have my suffering now ended?” Levin thought, walking the dust path, not noticing the heat, nor the fatigue, and experiencing the feeling of fatigue of long suffering.
It was so happy that it seemed incredible to him.
He breathed out of anxiety and, unable to go further, went down from the road to the forest and sat in the shadow of the axes on the unfinished grass.
He took the hat out of his sweating head and lie, covering himself on his hand, on the juicy, scratched wooden herb.
“Yes, we need to remember and think,” he thought, looking carefully at the immaculate grass that was in front of him, and watching the movements of the green foam, which runs up on the steel of the dust, and stumbled in its rise by the sheet of the foam. “All first,” he said to himself, turning the leaf of the shell so that he didn’t interfere with the shell, and throwing another grass so that the shell passed on it. What makes me happy?
What I opened?
I had previously said that in my body, in the body of this grass and this grass (that she didn’t want that grass, scattered the wings and flew) is performed according to the physical, chemical, physiological laws of matter exchange.
And in all of us, together with the axes, and with the clouds, and with the dark spots, develops.
Development from what? In what?
Endless development and struggle.
There may be some direction and struggle in the infinite.
And I was surprised that, despite the greatest tension of thought on this path, I nevertheless discovered the meaning of life, the meaning of my motivations and aspirations.
And the meaning of my incentives is so clear in me that I live on it constantly, and I was surprised and glad when the man told me: live for God, for the soul.
I didn’t open anything.
I just learned what I know.
I understood that power that did not give me life in one of the past, but now gives me life.
I was free from fraud, I knew the owner.”
And he briefly repeated himself the whole course of his thought over the past two years, the beginning of which was a clear, obvious thought of death in the sight of the beloved hopelessly sick brother.
For the first time he realized clearly that for every man and for him there was nothing before, except suffering, death and eternal forgetting, he decided that it was not possible to live so that it should be either explained his life in such a way that it should not appear to be a evil smile of a devil, or to be shot.
But he did not do anything, but continued to live, think and feel, and even at that time he married and experienced a lot of joy and was happy when he did not think about the meaning of his life.
What did that mean?
That means he lived well, but he thought badly.
He lived (not aware of this) with the spiritual truths he saturated with milk, and thought not only by not acknowledging these truths, but by carefully circumventing them.
Now he was clear that he could only live through the beliefs in which he was raised.
“What would I be, and how would I live my life, if I didn’t have these beliefs, and didn’t know that I should live for God, not for my needs?
I would steal, lie, kill.
Nothing of the greatest joy of my life would exist for me.”
And, doing the greatest effort of imagination, he could nevertheless imagine the beast that he would be if he didn’t know what he lived for.
“I was looking for the answer to my question.
And the answer to my question could not give me a thought, it is incomparable with the question.
The answer gave me the life itself, in my knowledge of what is good and what is bad.
And this knowledge I have not acquired, but it is given to me with all, given because I could not take it from anywhere.
Where did I get it from?
Do I have come to the point that we must love the neighbor and not breathe him?
I was told this in my childhood, and I was gladly believed because I was told what I had in my heart.
Who opened it?
Not the mind.
The mind has opened the struggle for existence and the law that requires the soul of all who interfere with the satisfaction of my desires.
This is the conclusion of reason.
And to love another could not open the mind, because it is unreasonable.”
“Yes, pride,” he said to himself, swallowing on the stomach and starting to bind a nod of the stools of herbs, trying not to break them.
And not only the pride of mind, but the stupidity of mind.
And the most important thing is the fluidity, precisely the fluidity of mind.
It is the fraud of mind,” he repeated.
And Levina remembered the recent scene with Dolly and her children.
The children, left alone, began to burn the malin on the candles and throw milk with a fountain into the mouth.
The mother put them in mind, and with Levin, she began to tell them how hard it is that they destroy, and that this work is done for them, that if they beat the cups, they will not be drinking tea, but if they drop the milk, they will not be eating, and they will die of hunger.
And Levine was shocked by the quiet, unbelievable uncertainty with which the children listened to the words of their mothers.
They were only angry that their fun game was stopped, and they didn’t believe a word of what their mother said.
They could not believe, because they could not imagine the whole volume of what they use, and therefore they could not imagine that what they destroy is what they live.
“It’s all of itself,” they thought, “and there’s nothing interesting and important in it, because it’s always been and will be.
And always the same.
We have nothing to think about it, it’s ready; but we want to invent something new and new.
Here we invented to put the malin in the cup and burn it on a candle, and to throw the milk with the fountain straight into the mouth of each other.
It’s fun and new, and there’s nothing worse than drinking from cups.”
“Isn’t it that we do, I did, by reason, finding the meaning of the forces of nature and the meaning of man’s life?” He continued to think.
And do not all the theories of philosophy do the same, by way of thought, strange, not proper to man, leading him to knowledge of what he has long known, and so truthfully knows that without it he could not live?
Isn’t it clear in the evolution of the theory of each philosopher that he knows forward as undoubtedly as the man Fedor, and no more clear than him, the main meaning of life and only a doubtful mental way wants to return to what everyone knows?
Well, let some of the children, so that they can buy themselves, make a dish, put the milk, etc.
Would they be betrayal?
They would die of hunger.
Well, let us leave with our passions, our thoughts, without the concept of one God and the Creator! Or without the concept of what is good, without the explanation of the moral evil.
Well, without these concepts, build something!
We only destroy because we are spiritually saturated.
These are children!
Where do I have a joyful, common knowledge with the man, which one gives me soul peace?
Where did I get it from?
I, raised in the concept of God, a Christian, filled my whole life with those spiritual goods that the Christianity has given me, filled all and living with these goods, I, as children, without understanding them, destroy, that is, I want to destroy what I live.
And as soon as the important minute of life comes, as children, when they are cold and hungry, I go to it, and even less than the children whose mother defends for their childhood fools, I feel that my childhood attempts to be angry with fat are not counted to me.
Yes, what I know, I know not by reason, but it is given to me, openly to me, and I know it by heart, I believe in the most important thing that the Church is confessing.”
The Church?
The Church!” -Levin repeated, lie on the other side, and, clocking on his hand, began to look far, down from that side to the river the beast.
But can I believe in everything that the Church confesses? He thought, experiencing himself and inventing everything that could destroy his present peace.
He intentionally began to remember the teachings of the church, which mostly always seemed strange to him and tempted him. The creation?
What did I explain the existence?
of existence?
Nothing? The Devil and sin? How do I explain evil?
The buyer?
But I know nothing, I know nothing, and I can't know anything but what I've been told with everyone."
And now it seemed to him that there was no one of the beliefs of the Church that would violate the main thing—the faith in God, in good as the only purpose of man.
Under every faith of the church could be placed a faith in the service of truth instead of needs.
And not only did each of them not interfere with this, but it was necessary for the most important, constant miracle on earth to be accomplished, which consists in that it was possible for each, together with millions of more diverse people, wise and judge, children and elderly — with all, with the man, with the Lviv, with the Kitty, with the poor and the kings, to understand without a doubt the same and to put the life of the soul for which one is worth living and which one we appreciate.
Leaving on his back, he was now looking at the high, cloudless sky.
“Do I not know that this is an infinite space and that it is not a round set?
But no matter how stumbled and stressed my sight, I can’t see it not round and unlimited, and despite my knowledge of infinite space, I’m undoubtedly right, when I see a solid blue sword, I’m more right than when I try to see it further.”
Levin stopped thinking and just as if he listened to the mysterious voices, about something that was joyfully and worriedly talked with each other.
“Is this faith? He thought, afraid of believing his happiness. “My God, I thank you!” He spoke, swallowing the rings that stood up and throwing with both hands the tears that were filled with his eyes.
Levin looked in front of himself and saw the sheep, then he saw his wagon stretched by Voron, and the sheep, who, coming up to the sheep, talked something with the sheep; then he had already heard the sound of the wheels and the screams of a saturated horse near himself; but he was so absorbed by his thoughts that he had no idea why the sheep was going to him.
He remembered it only when the dog, already fully approached him, climbed him.
The bar was sent.
There was a brother and another bar.
Levin sat in the wagon and took the fire.
As if waking up from the sleep, Levin could not remember for a long time.
He looked at the saturated horse swallowing between the beds and on the neck, where the puzzles stood, he looked at the Ivan-chicken sitting under him, and remembered that he was waiting for his brother, that his wife would probably be worried about his long absence, and tried to guess who was the guest who came with his brother.
Both the brother, the wife, and the unknown guest were presented to him now differently than before.
He thought his relationship with all the people would be different.
“With my brother there will now be no isolation that has always been between us; there will be no disputes; with Kiti there will never be any disputes; with the guest whoever he is, I will be gentle and good; with the people, with Ivan, everything will be different.”
Holding a good horse flushing from intolerance and asking for a walk, Levin looked at Ivan sitting under himself, who didn’t know what to do with his unworked hands, and constantly pressing his shirt, and sought an excuse to begin a conversation with him.
He wanted to say that irresistibly Ivan highly stretched the quarter, but it was like an accusation, and he wanted a love conversation. There was nothing else in his mind.
“You go to the right to take, and then the pen,” said the dog, redirecting to the driver of Levin.
- Please don't touch me and don't teach me! - said Levin, disappointed by this intervention.
Just as always, the intervention would bother him, and he immediately felt sadly how wrong his assumption was that the mental mood could immediately change him in touch with reality.
Not coming from the fourth side of the house, Levin saw Grisha and Tanya run to him.
Grandfather of the bone!
And my mom goes, and my grandfather, and Sergey Ivanic, and someone else, they said, entering the wagon.
Yes who?
Extremely terrible!
And that's what he does with his hands," Tanya said, climbing up in the car and scratching Katavasov.
Old or young? - laughing, said Levin, to whom the performance of Tani resembled someone.
“Oh, just not an unpleasant man!” I thought of Levin.
Just swallowing behind the turn of the road and seeing the coolest encounter, Levin discovered Katavasov in a broken hat, the coolest, just as stretching his hands as Tanya imagined.
Katavasov loved to talk about philosophy, having an idea of it from naturalists who never engaged in philosophy; and in Moscow, Levin has recently disputed a lot with him.
And one of those conversations, in which Katavas obviously thought he got the top, was the first thing Levin remembered when he knew him.
“No, I’m not going to argue and easily express my thoughts for anything,” he thought.
When he came out of the car and greeted his brother and Katavasov, Levin asked about his wife.
- She moved Mitu to Kolok (this was a forest near the house).
I wanted to arrange it there, or it’s hot in the house,” Dolly said.
Levin always advised his wife to bring the child to the forest, finding it dangerous, and the news was unpleasant to him.
“He carries him from place to place,” the prince said, smiling. I told her to try to put it down on the ice.
She wanted to go to the bees.
She thought you were there.
“We’re going there,” Dolly said.
Well, what are you doing? - said Sergey Ivanovich, leaving away from others and equating with his brother.
Nothing special.
As always, I’m doing farming,” answered Levin. What are you for a long time?
We have been waiting so long.
A few to two.
There are a lot of things in Moscow.
With these words the eyes of the brothers met, and Levin, despite the everlasting and now strong desire in him to be in friendly and, head-to-head, simple relationships with his brother, felt that he was uncomfortable to look at him.
He turned his eyes down and didn’t know what to say.
By selecting the subjects of the conversation such as what would be pleasant to Sergei Ivanovich and removing him from the conversation about the Serbian War and the Slavic Wop-Ross, which he indicated by mention of the occupations in Moscow, Levin talked about the book of Sergei Ivanovich.
Was there any reviews about your book? He asked him.
Sergey Ivanovich smiled on the intention of the question.
“No one is busy with this, and I am less of others,” he said. “Look, Darya Alexandrovna, there will be a rain,” he added, indicating with a sunlight the white shells that appeared above the shells.
And there was enough of these words, so that the hostile but cold attitude to one another, which Levin so wanted to avoid, was established again among the brothers.
Levin came to Katavasov.
“How good you did that you thought to come,” he told him.
I gathered for a long time.
Let’s go, let’s see.
Have you read Spencer?
“No, I don’t know,” said Levin. I don’t need it now.
How is so?
It is interesting.
Why?
That is, I’m finally convinced that I’m not going to find a solution to the questions I’m concerned with in him or him.
Now...
But the quiet and fun expression of the face of Katavasov suddenly hit him, and he became so sad of his mood, which he obviously broke by this conversation, that he, remembering his intention, stopped.
After talking, he added. - If the bees, then here, on this trap, he turned in everything.
Arriving through the narrow hole to the unfinished hole, covered on one side with a glowing bright Ivan-da-Maria, among which often grown dark-green high coves, Levin placed his guests in the thick fresh shadows of young shadows, on the shadows and shadows, deliberately prepared for the visitors of the bees, afraid of the bees, and he himself went to the hole to bring the children and great bread, grapes and fresh honey.
Trying to make as little as possible fast movements and listening to the more and more frequently passing bees, he reached the trail to the end.
In the most seed, one bees swallowed, confusing him in the beard, but he carefully dismissed it.
When he entered the shadows, he removed his grid from the wall hanged on the shadows, and, wearing it and pulling his hands into the pockets, he went out to the carved bees, in which the right rows, attached to the shadows, stood among the exhausted place all his acquaintances, each with his history, the old shadows, and on the walls of the shadows the young ones planted this year.
Before the flies of the flies were scattered in the eyes of the circling and interpreting in one place, the bees and the flies playing, and among them, all in one direction, there into the forest on the flower lip and back to the flies, the working bees flown with the flies and the flies.
In the ears, the various sounds of the busy work, of the fast-flying working bees, of the turning, of the feast, of the worried, of the defendant, of the enemy, of the wealth, of the coward bees, of the coward bees, of the coward bees.
On that side of the ceiling, the old man strangled his bride and did not see Levin. Levin, not overlooking him, stopped in the middle of the bee.
He was pleased to have the opportunity to be alone to remember the reality that has already managed to so lower his mood.
He remembered that he had already managed to be angry on Ivan, to express his coldness to his brother, and to talk easily with Katavasov.
"Is it just a minute mood, and it will pass without leaving a trace?" He thought.
But at the same moment, returning to his mood, he felt with joy that something new and important happened in him.
Reality only for a while stumbled the soul calm that he found; but it was whole in it.
Just as the bees, now wrapping around him, threatening him and entertaining him, depriving him of full physical tranquility, forcing him to compress, avoiding them, so accurately concerned, circumventing him from the moment he sat in the wagon, depriving him of mental freedom; but this continued only until he was among them.
As, despite the bees, the body force was the whole whole in it, so the whole was the spiritual force he created again.
- And you know, Costy, with whom Sergey Ivanovich was here? -Dolly said, dividing the children with grapes and honey. With Vronsky!
He goes to Serbia.
No one yet, but the squadron leads on his account. He said Katowice.
“It’s about him,” said Levin. Are there any more volunteers? He added, looking at Sergey Ivanovich.
Sergey Ivanovich, not answering, cautiously took a knife-tupic out of the cup, in which the corner was a white hundred honey, inflated into the flooded honey the living bees.
And yet how!
You would see what was on the station yesterday! - said Katasov, calling the garlic.
How is it to understand?
For the sake of Christ, explain to me, Sergey Ivanovich, where are all these volunteers going, with whom they are fighting? - asked the old prince, obviously continuing the conversation that began without Levin.
“With the Turks,” Sergey Ivanovich, quietly smiling, replied, putting out the helplessly moving legs of the bees that broke out of the honey and putting it out of the knife on a strong edge sheet.
Who declared war to the Turks?
Ivan Ivanic Rogozov and Count Lydia Ivanovna with Madame Stall?
“No one has declared war, and people are compassionate for the suffering of their neighbors and want to help them,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
“But the prince doesn’t speak of help,” said Levin, standing for the test, but of war.
The prince says that private people cannot participate in the war without the permission of the government.
The bone, see, it is a bees.
Right, we are tempted! — said Dolly, leaving out of the oasis.
“It’s not a bees, it’s an axis,” said Levin.
No, no, what is your theory? - said with a smile of Katavas to Levin, obviously calling him to dispute. Why do private people have no rights?
“Yes, my theory is that war, on the one hand, is such an animal, cruel and terrible thing that no man, I don’t say a Christian, can personally take responsibility for the beginning of the war, but only the government that is called to do so and leads to war inevitably.
On the other hand, both in science and in good sense, in public affairs, especially in the case of war, citizens refuse their personal will.
Sergey Ivanovich and Katavasov with ready objections talked at the same time.
“It’s a thing, Daddy, that there may be cases when the government does not perform the will of citizens, and then society declares its will,” Katavasov said.
But Sergey Ivanovich obviously did not approve this objection.
He swallowed into the words of Katasov and said another:
You rightly ask this question.
There is no declaration of war, but just an expression of human, Christian feelings.
They kill brothers, single-blood and single-believers.
Well, let’s put not even the brothers, not the unbelievers, but just the children, the women, the elderly; the feeling is angry, and the Russians run to help stop these horrors.
Imagine that you would walk along the street and see that drunk beats a woman or a child; I think you would not be asking, declared or not declared war to that man, but you would go on him and protect the offended.
“But I’t kill,” said Levin.
No, you would kill it.
I don’t know.
If I had seen it, I would give myself to my immediate feeling; but I can’t say it.
And such an immediate feeling to the oppression of the Slavs is not and cannot be.
Per not for you. But for others it is, - unfavourable, said Sergey Ivanovich. In the people live the legends of the Orthodox peoples suffering under the needle of "unfair agarians".
The people heard of the suffering of their brothers and talked.
“Maybe,” said Levin, “but I don’t see; I’m a people, I don’t feel it.
“That’s me,” said the prince. I lived abroad, read newspapers and, I admit, even before the Bulgarian horrors I didn’t understand why all the Russians so suddenly loved the Slavic brothers, and I don’t feel any love for them?
I was very angry, I thought I was a fool or what Karlsbad was doing to me.
But when I came here, I was calm – I see that besides me there are people who are only interested in Russia, not the Slavic brothers.
Here is Constantine.
“Personal opinions here do not mean anything,” Sergey Ivanic said, “there is nothing to personal opinions when the whole Russian people have expressed their will.
Sorry to me. I don’t see that.
The people do not know, the prince said.
“No, Dad, why not? What about Sunday in the church? -Dolly said, listening to the conversation. “Let’s give you a handy,” she said to the old man with a smile looking at the kids. It can’t be that all...
What about Sunday in the church?
The priest was told to read.
He has read.
They didn’t understand anything, they breathed up, as with every prophecy, the prince continued. - Then they were told that they are gathering for the salvation matter in the church, so they got out the cup and gave it. What they do, they do not know themselves.
“The people cannot not know; the consciousness of their judgments is always in the people, and in such moments as the present, it is clear to him,” said Sergey Ivanovich, looking at the old man of the bee.
A beautiful old man with a black beard and thick silver hair stood steadily, holding a cup of honey, gently and quietly from the height of his growth looking at the lords, obviously not understanding anything and not wanting to understand.
“It’s so accurate,” he significantly raised his head, said Sergey Ivanovich.
Ask him here.
He knows nothing and does not think, said Levin. Have you heard of the war, Mikhail? He turned to him. That’s what we read in the church?
What do you think?
Should we fight for Christians?
What do we think?
Alexander Nikolaevich, the Emperor, has thought of us, he will think of us in all things.
Will the bread bring any more?
Give the boyfriend? He turned to Darje Alexandrovne, pointing to Grish, who ate the cork.
“I don’t have to ask,” Sergey Ivanovich said, “we’ve seen and seen hundreds and hundreds of people who throw everything to serve the right thing, come from all sides of Russia and express their thought and purpose directly and clearly.
They bring their money or they go and directly tell why.
What does that mean?
“Therefore, in my opinion,” said Levin, “that in the eighty-million people there will always be not hundreds, as now, but tens of thousands of people who have lost their social status, unhappy people who are always ready – to the shake of Pugachev, to Hivu, to Serbia...
I tell you, not the hundreds and not the people who are wicked, but the best representatives of the people. - Sergey Ivanic said with such anxiety as if he defended his last property. What about donations?
Here the whole people express their will.
“This word ‘people’ is so uncertain,” said Levin. The writers, the teachers and the men, one in a thousand, may know what it is about.
The remaining eighty million, like Mikhailic, not only do not express their will, but do not have the smallest idea of what they should express their will.
What is the right to say that this is the will of the people?
Experienced in dialectics Sergey Ivanovich, without objecting, immediately moved the conversation to another area.
Yes, if you want to know the spirit of the people in an arithmetic way, then, of course, it is very difficult to it.
And the submission of voices is not introduced to us, nor can it be introduced, because it does not express the will of the people; but there are other ways for this.
It feels in the air, it feels in the heart.
I am not talking about those submarine flows that have moved in the standing sea of the people and that are clear to every unpredictable man; look at society in a close sense.
All the most diverse parties of the world of intelligence, so hostile before, all merged into one.
Every difference has ended, all the public bodies speak one and one, all have felt the natural power that has captured them and carries them in one direction.
“That’s what the newspapers say,” said the prince. It is true.
It’s a good thing to say that it’s just a puppy before the puppy.
Because of them they don’t hear anything.
“I don’t publish newspapers and I don’t want to defend them; but I’m talking about the unanimity in the world of intelligence,” Sergey Ivanovich said, addressing his brother.
Levin wanted to answer, but the old prince broke him. “Well, there is another one-thinking thing to say,” said the prince. - Here's my cousin, Stepan Arkadić, you know him, he now gets a member of the committee and something else, I don't remember.
Just do nothing to do there – what, Dolly, it’s not a secret! Eight thousand complaints.
Try, ask him if his service is useful, he will prove you that it is the most needed.
And he is a true man, but you cannot not believe in the benefit of eight thousand.
“Yes, he asked to transfer the place to Darje Aleksandrovne,” Sergey Ivanovich said unhappyly, believing that the prince said nothing.
It is a unanimous newspaper.
I was disappointed: once the war, they had half the income.
How can they not think that the fate of the people and the Slavs... and all this?
“I don’t like the newspapers of many, but it’s unfair,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
“I would only put one condition,” continued the prince. Alphonse Karr wrote this well before the war with Prussia.
Do you think war is necessary?
beautifully.
Whoever preaches war - in a special, advanced legion and in the attack, in the attack, in front of all."
“The editors will be good,” he laughed loudly, Katavasov said, imagining his acquainted editors in this elected legion.
“Well, they’ll escape,” Dolly said, “but they’ll bother.
“And when they will escape, they will put the cartridges or the cossacks with the shadows behind,” the prince said.
“It’s a joke, and a bad joke, apologize to me, prince,” Sergey Ivanovich said.
“I don’t see that it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke, it’s a joke.
“Every member of the society is called to do his own thing,” he said. And people think perform their work by expressing public opinion.
And the unanimous and complete expression of public opinion is a merit of the press and at the same time a joyful phenomenon.
Twenty years ago we would have silenced, and now the voice of the Russian people is heard, who is ready to stand up like one man, and willing to sacrifice himself for the oppressed brothers; this is a great step and a task of force.
“But not to sacrifice only, but to kill the Turks,” Levin said. “The people sacrifice and are willing to sacrifice for their soul, not for murder,” he added, involuntaryly linking the conversation with those thoughts that so engaged him.
What about the soul?
This, you understand, is a difficult expression for the naturalist.
What is this soul? - Smiling, said Katasov.
Oh yeah you know!
“Hey, she God, I don’t have any little idea!” said Katavas with a loud laughter.
“I’m not the peace, but the sword has brought,” says Christ, – Sergei Ivanic opposed from his side, just as if the most understandable thing, bringing the same place from the gospel, which always most disturbed Levin.
- That's so right, - again repeated the old man who stood around them, answering the accidentally thrown look at him.
“No, Daddy, broken, broken, completely broken! He graciously screamed Katowice.
Levin reddened from the fault, not that he was broken, but that he did not stand and began to argue.
“No, I can’t argue with them,” he thought, “there’s an immeasurable armor on them, and I’m naked.”
He saw that his brother and Katavasov could not be convinced, and even less saw the possibility that he could agree with them.
What they preached was the greatest pride of mind that almost destroyed him.
He could not agree that dozens of people, including his brother, had the right, on the basis of what hundreds of volunteers who came to the capital told them, to say that they with the newspapers express the will and thought of the people, and that thought that is expressed in revenge and murder.
He could not agree with this because he did not see the expressions of these thoughts in the people in which he lived, and did not find these thoughts in himself (and he could not consider himself as one of the people that make up the Russian people), but most importantly because he did not know with the people, could not know what the common good consists, but firmly knew that the achievement of this common good was possible only with the strict fulfilment of the law of good that opened to every man, and therefore could not desire war and preach for any common purpose.
He spoke together with Mikhailic and the people who expressed their thoughts in the legend of the calling of the waryag: "King and rule us.
We are pleased to promise complete obedience.
All labor, all humiliation, all sacrifice we take on ourselves; but we do not judge and decide.”
And now the people, according to Sergey Ivanchev, have rejected this right, purchased at such a expensive price.
He wanted to say that if the public opinion is the unmistakable judge, then why is the revolution, the communum, not as lawful as the movement for the Slavs?
But all these were thoughts that could not resolve anything.
One thing was undoubtedly possible to see—it is that at this moment the dispute irritated Sergey Ivanovich, and therefore it was bad to dispute; and Levin silenced and turned the guests attention to the fact that the ticks gathered and that from the rain it was better to go home.
The prince and Sergey Ivanic sat in the car and went; the rest of the society, accelerating the step, went home by foot.
But the tucha, the white, the black, went so fast that it had to be added a step to sing home before the rain.
Its advanced, low and black, like smoke with a coat, clouds with an unusual speed fled to the sky.
There were still twenty steps to the house, and the wind had already risen, and every second could be waiting for a slope.
The children with a frightened and joyful look fled forward.
Darya Alexandrovna, hardly struggling with her clothed leg jackets, no longer walked, but fled, not leaving the eyes of the children.
The men, holding their hates, went big steps.
They were already at the wing itself, as a big drop hit and broke around the end of the iron stomach.
The children and the adults with a pleasant speech fled under the protection of the roof.
Catherine Alexandrovna? He asked Levin who met them in the front of Agaphya Mikhailovna with plates and plades.
“We thought, with you,” she said.
And myth?
In the coat, must be, and the grandmother with them.
Levin caught the flies and fled to Kolok.
In this short interval of time, the turtle has already so overcome its middle on the sun that it has become dark as in the darkness.
The wind persistently, as if insisting on its own, stopped Levin and, breaking the leaves and the colour of the leopard and unpleasantly and strangely wrapping the white dwarfs of the marsh, wrapped everything to one side: the acas, the flowers, the frogs, the grass and the frogs of the trees.
The girls who worked in the garden fled under the human roof.
The white curtain of the flood rain already captured the entire remote forest and half of the nearby field and quickly moved to the Cologne.
The rainy rain, broken into small drops, was heard in the air.
Getting his head forward and struggling with the wind that broke his plates, Levin had already fled to the Cologne and had seen something whitening behind the hole, as suddenly everything exploded, the whole earth burned up, and as if the heavens were trembling over his head.
Opening the blind eyes, Levin, through the thick rain curtain that now separated him from Kolk, with horror saw, first of all, strangely changing his position, the green macush of a well-known dube in the middle of the forest.
“Is it broken?” Levin was hardly able to think about how, all accelerating and accelerating the movement, the dumb mould hid behind the other trees, and he heard the threshold of a large tree falling on the other trees.
The light of the brightness, the sound of the trembling and the feeling of an instantly cold body merged for Levin into one impression of horror.
My God!
My God, let’s not on them! He talked.
And although he immediately thought about how meaningless his request that they should not be killed by the dumb that has already fallen, he repeated it, knowing that he could not do anything better than this meaningless prayer.
Arriving to the place where they were usual, he did not find them.
They were on the other end of the forest, under the old lip, and they called it.
Two figures in dark clothes (they were in light before), naked, stood above something.
They were Kitty and grandmother.
The rain had already stopped, and it began to shine when Levin fled to them.
Her grandmother had dry clothes, but Katy's clothes dropped down and all covered her.
Although there was no longer rain, they still stood in the same position they got in when the storm broke out. Both of them stood hanging over the body with a green cloth.
are alive?
The goals?
Thanks to God! He spoke, swallowing on the untouched water, filled with a bottle of water, and fled to them.
Kitty's ruby and wet face was turned to him and smiled out of the changed shape of the hat.
How unconscious you are!
I don’t understand how to be so negligent! He attacked his wife with fatigue.
Oh God, I am not guilty.
Just when he wanted to leave, he got away.
It had to be changed.
We just started to apologize to Kitty.
Mithia was a target, dry and not ceasing to sleep.
Good luck to God!
I don’t know what I’m saying!
They gathered wet peelings; the grandmother took the child out and brought him.
Levin walked under her wife, guilty of her annoyance, quietly from her grandmother, pressing her hand.
During the whole day, following the most diverse conversations in which he as if only one external side of his mind participated, Levin, despite the disappointment in the change that had to occur in him, did not stop gladly hearing the fullness of his heart.
After the rain, it was too wet to go on a walk; yet the terrible shadows did not descend from the horizon and then there, then here passed, hot and black, on the edges of the sky.
The whole community spent the rest of the day at home.
The disputes were no longer over and, on the contrary, after lunch all were in the best mood.
Katavasov first mixed the dam with his original jokes, which were always so liked at the first meeting with him, but then, called by Sergey Ivanovich, told his very interesting observations about the differences in character and even the physionomy of the sames and men of the room mosquitoes and their lives.
Sergey Ivanovich was also happy and after the tea caused by his brother, he exposed his view on the future of the Eastern issue, and so simple and well that everyone listened to him.
Only one Kitty could not listen to him, and she was called to wash Mitty.
A few minutes after the departure, Kitty and Levin were called to her to the children's room.
After leaving his tea and also regreting the interruption of an interesting conversation and at the same time worried about why he was called, as it only happened in important cases, Levin went to the children's room.
Despite the fact that Sergey Ivanovich’s unheard plan on how the liberated four-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million-million
And all these considerations about the importance of the Slavic element in the world history seemed so low to him compared to what was done in his soul, that he instantly forgot all this and moved to the same mood in which he was today in the morning.
He did not remember now, as it was before, all the course of thought (this did not need him).
He immediately passed into the feeling that led them, which was connected with these thoughts, and found in his soul that feeling even stronger and more certain than before.
Now with him was not what was happening with the previous imagined calms, when it was necessary to restore the whole course of thought in order to find the feeling.
Now, on the contrary, the feeling of joy and calmness was alive than before, and the thought did not sing after the feeling.
He walked through the terrace and looked at the two stars standing on the already dark sky and suddenly remembered: "Yes, looking at the sky, I thought that the plot I see was not false, and at the same time something I didn't think, something I hid from myself, he thought. Whatever it is, there is no objection.
It is worth thinking – and everything will be clarified!”
Already entering the child’s room, he remembered what was what he hid from himself.
It was that if the main proof of divinity is its revelation of what is good, then why is this revelation limited to one Christian church?
What relation have the beliefs of the Buddhists, the Magometans, who also confess and do good?
It seemed to him that he had a answer to this question; but he was not able to express it for himself as he had already entered the childhood.
Kitty stood with wrapped gloves at the bathroom over the child who was swallowing in it and, hearing his husband’s steps, turning his face to him, with a smile called him to himself.
With one hand she held under the head of the swimming on the back and the swallowing knife of the swollen child, with the other, she, equally stretching the muscle, pressed the lips on him.
Well, see it, see it! She said when her husband came to her. - Agaphya Mikhailovna right.
He knows.
It was the fact that Mithia from today, obviously, has already known all of its own.
As soon as Levin approached the bath, he was immediately presented with the experience, and the experience was well done.
The cook, intentionally called for it, turned to the child.
He swallowed and negatively swallowed his head.
Kitty swallowed to him, - he glowed with a smile, put his hands in his mouth and swallowed his lips, producing such a pleasant and strange sound that not only Kitty and his grandmother, but also Levin came into an unexpected admiration.
The child was thrown out of the bathroom on one hand, hanged with water, covered with the simple, drowned out, and after a penetrating scream gave the mother.
“Well, I’m glad you’re starting to love him,” Kitty said to her husband, after she and the baby were quietly sitting in a normal place. I am very happy.
And that started to angry me.
You said you didn’t feel anything about him.
Did I say that I don’t feel?
I just said I was disappointed.
How did he be disappointed?
Not that I was disappointed in him, but in my feeling; I expected more.
I was expecting that, as a surprise, a new pleasant feeling would disappear in me.
And suddenly, instead of it, uglyness, regret...
She listened carefully to him through the child, putting on the thin fingers of the rings she shot to wash Mitu.
And the most important thing is that there is much more fear and sadness than pleasure.
A little after that fear during the storm I realized how I loved him.
Kitty glowed with a smile.
Are you very afraid? She said. I’m too, but I’m worse than I’ve been.
I’m going to go to the hole.
What kind of cataracts!
The whole day was so pleasant.
And you and Sergey Ivanic are so good when you want.
Go to them.
After the bath there is always hot and a couple.
Going out of the childhood and leaving himself alone, Levin immediately recalled the thought that was something unclear.
Instead of going to the living room from which the voices were heard, he stopped on the terrace and, locked on the peril, began to look at the sky.
It was already very dark, and in the south where he looked, there was no turtle.
Tucci stood on the opposite side.
There was a lightning and a loud noise was heard.
Levin listened to the roughly falling drops in the garden and looked at the known triangle of stars and the Milky Way that passed in the middle with its lighting.
At every blast, not only the Milky Way, but also the bright stars disappeared, but as soon as the blast sinked, again, as if thrown by a hand, they appeared in the same places.
“What is disturbing me?” Levin said to himself, feeling that the solution of his doubts, though he does not know him yet, is already ready in his soul.
Yes, one obvious, undoubted manifestation of divinity is the laws of good which are manifested to the world by the revelation, and which I feel in myself, and in the recognition of which I am not that I am united, but that I am united by will and will with other people in one society of believers, which they call the church.
Well, and the Jews, the Magometans, the Confucian, the Buddhists, what are they? He asked himself the same question that he seemed dangerous. Are these hundreds of millions of people deprived of the best good without which life has no meaning? He thought, but immediately fixed himself. But what am I asking? He said to himself. I ask about the attitude to God of all the various beliefs of all mankind.
I ask about the general manifestation of God for the whole world with all these dark spots.
What am I doing?
For me personally, my heart is uncertainly open with knowledge that is incomprehensible by reason, and I persistently want to express this knowledge with reason and words.
I don’t know that the stars don’t walk. He asked himself, looking at a bright planet that has changed his position at the upper branch of the shore. But when I look at the movement of the stars, I can’t imagine the rotating of the earth, and I’m right saying that the stars are walking.
And could astronomers understand and calculate something if they were taking into account all the complex and varied movements of the earth?
All their surprising conclusions about the distances, weight, movements and disturbances of the heavenly bodies are based only on the visible movement of the light around the stable earth, on the same movement that is now ahead of me and that has been such for millions of people throughout the centuries and has always been and will always be the same and can always be trusted.
And just as holy and holy would be the conclusions of astronomers, not based on the observations of the visible sky with regard to one meridian and one horizon, so holy and holy would be my conclusions, not based on the understanding of good that for all has always been and will be the same and which is opened to me by Christianity and always in my soul can be entrusted.
But the question of other beliefs and their relationship with God, I have no right or opportunity to resolve.”
You haven’t gone? — Suddenly said the voice of Kitty, walking the same way into the living room. Are you not disappointed? She said, looking carefully at the light of the stars in his face.
But she’t look at his face if the lightning hiding the stars did not light him again.
In the light of the light she looked at all his face and, seeing that he was calm and happy, she smiled to him.
“She understands,” he thought, “she knows what I think about.
Tell her or not?
Yes, I will tell her.”
But at the moment he wanted to start speaking, she also spoke.
That’s what, the bone!
Make a debt, she said, go into the corner and see how Sergei Ivanovich was all arranged.
I am uncomfortable.
Do you have a new washing machine?
“Well, I’m going to go,” said Levin, standing up and kissing her.
“No, don’t have to say,” he thought when she went ahead of him. This is a secret, for me one necessary, important and unexplained word.
This new feeling didn’t change me, didn’t make me happy, didn’t suddenly illuminate me as I dreamed, just like the feeling of my son.
There was no surprise either.
And faith — not faith — I don’t know what it is — but this feeling was so invisibly brought into suffering and firmly stuck in the soul.
The same way I will be angry on Ivan, the same way I will argue, the same way I will express my thoughts, the same way there will be a wall between the holy of my soul and others, even my wife, the same way I will blame her for my fear and scare in it, the same way I will not understand the reason why I pray, and I will pray, but my life now, my whole life, regardless of everything that can happen to me, every minute of it, is not only meaningless, as it was before, but has the unquestionable meaning of the good that I have the power to put in it.”
