Anna Karenina
Tolstoy Lev Nikolajevic
I'm gonna get revenge, and I'm gonna pay you back.
PART ONE
All happy families look alike, every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
It's all mixed up in the house of Oblonski.
The wife found out that the husband had been associated with the former French governess in their home and told her husband that she could not live with him in the same house.
The situation continued for the third day and was painfully felt by the spouses themselves, by all members of the family and by the household.
All members of the family and the household felt that there was no point in living together, and that at every sitting court randomly people were more connected than they were, members of the family and the household of the Oblons.
My wife wouldn't leave her rooms, my husband wouldn't be home for the third day. The children were running all over the house like lost; the English woman had a fight with the housekeeper and wrote a note to her friend asking for a new place; the cook left the yard yesterday during lunch; the black cook and the cook asked for a settlement.
On the third day after the fight, Prince Stepan Arkadych Oblonsky -- Steve, as he was called in the light -- at a normal hour, 8 a.m., he woke up not in his wife &apos; s bedroom, but in his office, on the saffyan couch...
He turned his full, exhausted body on the springs of the couch, as if to sleep again for a long time, on the other hand he hugged his pillow and pressed his cheek against it; but suddenly he jumped up, sat on the couch and opened his eyes.
"Yeah, yeah, how was it? 'I thought he was thinking of a dream.' 'Yes, how was it?
Yes!
Alabin gave dinner in Darmstadt; no, not in Darmstadt, but something American.
Yeah, but Darmstadt was in America.
Yes, Alabin gave lunch on glass tables, yes, and the tables sang, "Il mio tesoro, and not Il mio tesoro, but something better, and some little graphs, and they're women," he remembered.
Stepan Arkadyich's eyes were hilarious, and he began to wonder, smiling.
"Yeah, it was good, it was really good.
There was a lot more to it, and you can't even say words and thoughts."
And when he noticed a strip of light on the side of one of the soup stalls, he threw his feet off the couch in a fun way, and he found them stitched up by his wife (the present for his birthday last year), wrapped in golden safian shoes and an old, nine-year-old habit, without getting up, reaching out to the place where his robe was hanging in his bedroom.
Then he remembered how and why he was sleeping not in his wife's bedroom, but in his office; the smile disappeared from his face, and he wrinkled his forehead.
"Ah, ah, ah! Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh 'He snatched away, remembering all that had happened.'
And his imagination was presented again with all the details of the dispute with his wife, all the insolence of his position and the most painful of all his own guilt.
"Yes! She won't forgive and can't forgive.
And the worst part is, it's all my fault, it's my fault, it's not my fault.
That's the drama,' he thought. 'Ah, ah, ah!' 'He condemned with despair, remembering the worst impressions of this quarrel.
It was the first moment that he came back from the theater, happy and happy, with a huge pear for his wife in his hand, found no wife in the living room. Surprisingly, he did not find her in the office, and finally saw her in the unhappy bedroom, opening it up with a note in his hand.
She, who was always anxious and busy, and not far from what he thought she was, Dolly, sat still with a note in her hand, expressing horror, despair, and anger, staring at him.
'What is this? This? 'She asked, pointing to the note.'
And yet, as is often the case, the memory of Stepan Arkadyić was not so much an event as the way he answered his wife's words.
What happened to him at this moment is what happens to people when they're suddenly caught in something too embarrassing. He failed to prepare his face for his position in front of his wife after the discovery of his guilt.
Instead of insulting, denying, excusing, asking for forgiveness, even being indifferent -- everything would be better than what he did! 'His face is completely involuntarily (the brain reflex,' thought Stepan Arkadych, who loved physiology), suddenly smiled involuntarily with a familiar, kind, and therefore a stupid smile.
He couldn't forgive himself for that stupid smile.
When Dolly saw that smile, she shuddered like a physical pain, burst out of the room with a warm stream of violent words and ran out of the room.
She hasn't wanted to see her husband since.
"This silly smile is all my fault," thought Stepan Arkadych.
"But what should I do? What do you want to do?" 'He spoke to himself with despair, and found no answer.'
Stepan Arkadić was a man who was truthful about himself.
He could not deceive himself and assure himself that he repented of what he had done.
He could not now regret that he, a 34 - year - old, handsome, loving man, was not in love with his wife, mother of five living and two dead children, who were only one year younger than him.
He only regretted that he couldn't hide better from his wife.
But he felt the weight of his situation and felt sorry for his wife, children, and himself.
Perhaps he would have been better able to hide his sins from his wife if he had expected this news to affect her.
Clearly, he had never considered the matter, but it seemed vague to him that his wife had long known that he was not faithful to her and looked through her fingers.
He even felt that she, a exhausted, old, ugly woman and nothing wonderful, simple, but a kind mother of the family, should be pardoned in the sense of justice.
It turned out to be really nasty.
"Oh, it's awful! Whoa, whoa, whoa! Awful! 'I kept telling myself Stepan Arkadych, and I couldn't think of anything.' 'And how well all this has been before, how well we have lived!
She was happy to be with the kids, and I didn't stop her from doing anything, letting her take care of the kids, the farm she wanted.
It's not a good thing she was a governess in our house.
It's not good!
There's something trivial about taking care of your governess. But what a governess!
(He reminiscently remembered the black pluto eyes m-lle Roland and her smile.)
But while she was in our house, I didn't allow myself anything.
And the worst part is, she's already...
Wow, this is all on purpose!
Ouch, ouch, ouch! Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
But what, what shall we do?"
There was no answer, except for the general answer that gives life to all the most difficult and insoluble questions.
The answer is, you have to live up to the needs of the day, that is, forget it.
You can't forget sleep until at least the night, you can't go back to the music that the female graphs sang, so you have to forget the dream of life.
'It will be visible there,' said Stepan Arkadić, and, standing up, put a gray robe on a blue silk lining, cast the brush with a knot, and, by taking the air into his wide chest, the usual brilliant step of his folded legs, so easily carrying his full body, came up to the window, raised the streak and rang loudly.
An old friend, valet Matway, carrying a dress, boots, and a telegram came into the phone immediately.
After Matthew, a barber came in with shaving supplies.
'Is there any paperwork from the presence?' 'Stepan Arkadić asked, taking a telegram and going to the mirror.'
'On the table,' said Matway, looking questionably, with the participation, at the barn, and waiting for a little while, adding a sly smile: 'The driver came from the driver.
Stepan Arkadič answered nothing, and only looked in the mirror at Matthew; the look they saw in the mirror showed how they understood each other.
The look of Stepan Arkadyich was like, "Why are you saying this? Don't you know?"
Matthew put his hands in the pockets of his jacket, set his foot aside and silently, kindly, smiling a little, looking at his barn.
'I ordered you to come that Sunday, and until you and yourself were disturbed in vain,' he said, apparently, the phrase prepared.
Stepan Arkadič realized that Matway wanted to make a joke and pay attention to himself.
By tearing the telegram apart, he read it, guessing at the perverted words, as always, and his face lit up.
'Mathaway, Anna Arkadievna's sister will be here tomorrow,' he said, stopping for a moment the glossy, swollen pen of a barber who cleaned the pink road between the long curly bunbardes.
'Thank God,' said Matway, in that response, showing that he understood the meaning of this visit as well as that of the barin, that is, that Anna Arkadyevna, the beloved sister of Stepana Arkadjić, could facilitate reconciliation between her husband and her wife.
'On your own or with your spouse?' 'Matway asked.'
Stepan Arkadić could not speak because the barber was busy with the upper lip, and raised one finger. Matway nodded his head in the mirror.
'Alone.
Shall I cook it upstairs?
'Darier Alexandrovna, report where you are ordered.
'Darier Alexandrovna? 'Surely Matway repeats it with doubt.'
'Yes, report.
So take the telegram, tell them what they're gonna say.
'You want to try,' Matway understood, but he said only:
'I'm listening.' Stepan Arkadić had already been washed and combed and was about to dress when Matway returned to the room, slowly squeaking his boots, with a telegram in his hand.
The circulator was gone.
'Daria Alexandrovna was ordered to report that they were leaving.
"Let them, as you will, do," he said, laughing only with his eyes, and putting his hands in his pockets and leaning his head on the side, staring at the barn.
Stepan Arkadić hasn't spoken. Then a kind and somewhat pathetic smile appeared on his beautiful face.
'Huh? Matway? 'He said, shaking his head.
'Nothing, sir, shall be formed,' said Matway.
'Will it be formed?'
'Yes, sir.
'Do you think?' Who's that? 'Stepan Arkadić asked, hearing the sound of a woman's dress outside the door.
'It's me-s,' said the firm and pleasant woman's voice, and behind the door was the hard-necked face of Matrena Philmonna, the babysitter.
'Well, Matresa? 'Stepan Arkadić asked, going out to her door.'
Despite Stepan Arkadych's guilt toward his wife and feeling it himself, almost everyone in the house, even the nanny, Darya Alexandrovna's main friend, was on his side.
'Well? 'He is sad,' said he.
'You go, sir, obey more.
God will give it to me.
They're suffering a lot, and they're looking at pity, and everyone in the house has gone.
Kids, sir, I'm sorry.
Obey, sir. What to do!
Love to ride...
'Cause he won't accept...
'You do yours.
God is merciful, pray to God, sir, pray to God.
'Well, all right, go,' said Stepan Arkadych, suddenly red. 'Well, let's get dressed,' he turned to Matthew and firmly dropped his robe.
Matway's already had something invisible, hamstered, cooked shirt, and it's clearly a pleasure to put a barina's holocaust in it.
III
With his clothes on, Stepan Arkadych jumped on himself with his perfumes, adjusted his shirt's sleeves, put him through his papyros' pockets, wallet, matches, double chained and shaved watches, and, by shaking his handkerchief, feeling clean, fragrant, healthy and physically fun despite his misfortune, he went out a little bit on each leg, into the dining room, where he was already waiting for his coffee and, next to his coffee, letters and papers from his presence.
He read the letters.
One was very unpleasant -- from a merchant who bought the woods in his wife &apos; s estate.
The forest had to be sold; but now, before reconciliation with his wife, it was out of the question.
All the more unpleasant was the fact that the money interest in the upcoming matter of reconciliation with his wife had been mixed up.
And the idea that he might be guided by this interest that he would seek reconciliation with his wife to sell this forest was an insult to him.
After completing the letters, Stepan Arkadić moved the papers out of his presence, quickly turned two cases over, made some marks with a large pencil, and moved on to coffee; he turned over another raw morning newspaper for coffee and began reading it.
Stepan Arkadić received and read a liberal newspaper, not the extreme, but the direction that the majority held.
And despite the fact that neither science nor art nor politics really interested him, he held firm to the views on all these subjects held by the majority and his newspaper, and he changed them only when the majority changed them, or better said he did not change them, and they themselves did not change in it.
Stepan Arkadić did not choose either direction or views, and those directions and views came to him themselves, just as he did not choose the shapes of a hat or a surf, but took the ones he wore.
And it was as necessary for him, who lived in a well - known society, to have a certain activity of thought, usually developing in the summer of maturity, as he had to have a hat.
If there was a reason why he preferred a liberal course of conservativeness, which many of his circles also held, it was not because he found a liberal direction more reasonable, but because it was closer to his way of life.
The Liberal Party said that things were bad in Russia, and indeed, Stepan Arkadyich had a lot of debts and a huge shortage of money.
The Liberal Party said that marriage was an out-of-date institution and that it was necessary to rebuild it, and indeed, family life brought little pleasure to Stepan Arkadyich and forced him to lie and pretend that it was so disgusting to his nature.
The Liberal Party said, or better, that religion was only a curate for the barbaric part of the population, and indeed, Stepan Arkadić could not bear without pain in the legs, even a short prayer, and could not understand why all those scary and high-minded words about the light, when and on which it would be very fun to live., along with Stepan Arkadyich, who loved the funny joke, it was nice sometimes to surprise a humble man that if he was already proud of the breed, he should not stop on Rürik and reject the first father-in-law -- the monkeys.
So the liberal direction became the habit of Stepan Arkadyić, and he loved his newspaper like a cigar in the afternoon for the light fog it produced in his head.
He read a guiding article that explained that in our time there was a total in vain cry that radicalism threatened to absorb all conservative elements and that the Government was obliged to take action to suppress the revolutionary hydra, which, on the contrary, "we believe that the danger lies not in the perceived revolutionary hydra, but in the persistence of tradition that impedes progress", etc.
He read another article, a financial article that mentioned Bentham and Mill and allowed thin stilts to go to the Ministry.
As a matter of urgency, he understood the meaning of any stiletto: from whom and on whom and on what occasion it was directed, which, as always, gave him some pleasure.
But today's pleasure was poisoned by the memory of Matron's advice to the Philemonna and the fact that it was so bad in the house.
He also read that Count Baest had reportedly travelled to Wiesbaden, that there were no more gray hairs, that there was a light carriage, and that there was a young person's offer; but this information did not give him, as before, a quiet, ironic pleasure.
After completing the paper, the second cup of coffee and the butter squash, he stood up, shaked the crumbs of the shovel off his vest and, after dislodging his large breasts, smiled with joy, not because he had something particularly pleasant in his heart, a happy smile caused good digestion.
But that happy smile just reminded him of everything, and he thought about it.
Two children's voices (Stepán Arkadić recognized the voices of Grisha, a smaller boy, and Tanya, an older girl) heard outside the door.
They took something and dropped it.
'I said you can't put passengers on the roof,' the girl screamed in English, 'you pick it up!
"It's all mixed up," said Stepan Arkadych, "there are children running alone." And when he came to the door, he called them.
They threw the box representing the train and went in to see their father.
The girl, the father's favorite, ran in bravely, hugged him and, laughing, hung around his neck, as always, rejoicing at the familiar scent of perfume spread from his buckenbard.
By kissing him, finally, in a blushing and gentle face, the girl opened her hands and wanted to run back; but her father held her back...
'Mom's what? 'He asked, pointing his hand at his daughter's smooth, tender neck. 'Hello,' he said, smiling at a healthy boy.
He knew that he loved the boy less, and he always tried to be a roven; but the boy felt it and did not smile at his father's cold smile.
'Mom?
She stood up,' the girl answered.
Stepan Arkadić sighed. "So he didn't sleep all night again," he thought.
'What, is she fun?
The girl knew there was a fight between her father and her mother, and that the mother couldn't have fun, and that the father should know that, and that he pretended to ask that so easily. And she blushed for her father.
He immediately realized that and also blushed.
'I don't know,' she said. 'She didn't tell me to study, but she told me to go out with Miss Gul to her grandmother.
'Come on, Tanchoka.
Oh, yes, wait,' he said, holding her and ironing her soft pen.
He got out of the fireplace. Where I put it yesterday, I gave her a box of candy, and I gave her two, picking out her favorites, chocolate and lipstick.
'Grisher?' 'The girl said, pointing to the chocolate.'
'Yes, yes. 'And once again touching her shoulder, he kissed her at the roots of her hair, in her neck, and let her go.
'The carriage is ready,' said Matway. 'Yes, the beggar,' he added.
'How long has it been here?' 'Stepan Arkadić asked.'
'At half an hour.
'How many times have you been ordered to report now!
'I have to let you eat some coffee,' said Matway with a harsh, friendly tone that you could not be angry at.
'Well, ask quickly,' said Oblonsky, wrinkling with anger.
The applicant, Captain Kalinina's headquarters, asked for the impossible and the insoluble; but Stepan Arkadić, by his custom, sat her, listening carefully, without interrupting her, and gave her detailed advice as to whom and how to turn, and even the boyo and folded with his large, stretchy, beautiful and clear handwriting, wrote her a note to the person who could help her.
Let the Captain's headquarters go. Stepan Arkadić took his hat and stopped, remembering if he had forgotten anything.
Turns out he didn't forget anything but what he wanted to forget -- his wife.
"Oh, yes!"
He put his head down, and a beautiful face accepted his dreary expression.
"Go or don't go?" 'He said to himself. And the inner voice told him that it was not necessary to walk, that there could be nothing but a fake, that it could not be fixed, that their relationship could not be fixed, because it could not be made attractive and exciting again or made an old man unable to love.
Except a lie and a lie, nothing could come out now; and a lie and a lie were against his nature.
"But one day it is necessary; it cannot remain so," he said, seeking courage.
He straightened his chest, took out his daddy's, smoked it, suffocated it twice, threw it in a pearlmouth ashtray, walked quickly through the dark living room and opened the other door into his wife's bedroom.
Daria Alexandrovna, wearing a sweatshirt and stitched on the back of her head, was already rare, once thick and beautiful hair with a shoveled, skinny face and a large, skinny face, scared of her eyes, standing among the things scattered in the room before an open chiffonier from which she chose something.
When she heard her husband's steps, she stopped looking at the door and in vain trying to give her face a strict and contemptible expression.
She felt afraid of him and afraid of the upcoming date.
She was just trying to do what she had been trying to do for the tenth time in these three days -- to take away the children and her things that she would take to her mother -- and she couldn't make up her mind again; but now, just as she did, she told herself that it couldn't stay like that, that she had to do something, punish, humiliate him, avenge him even a little bit of the pain he had inflicted on her. She still said she was going to leave him, but she felt that it was impossible; it was impossible because she couldn't get used to thinking of him as her husband and loving him.
In addition, she felt that if she could barely care for her five children here in her home, they would be even worse off where she would go with all of them.
And in those three days, he got a little sick because he was fed with a bad broth, and the rest of us were almost out of lunch last night. She felt that it was impossible to leave; but by deceiving herself, she still took things and pretended to leave.
When she saw her husband, she put her hand in the chiffonier's drawer like she was looking for something, and she looked back at him only when he came all the way up to her.
But her face, to whom she wanted to give a strict and decisive expression, expressed loss and suffering.
'Dolly!' he said with a quiet, shy voice. He dragged his head into his shoulders and wanted to look pathetic and obedient, but he still shined fresh and healthy.
She quickly glanced from head to toe at his shining freshness and health of the figure.
'Yeah, he's happy and happy!' she thought, 'and me?!..................................
And this kindness is nasty, for which everyone loves him so much and praises him; I hate his kindness," she thought.
Her mouth was humbled, her cheek muscle shook on the right side of the pale, nervous face.
'What do you want? 'She said with a quick, not her own, thoracic voice.'
'Dolly! 'He repeated with trembling in his voice.' 'Anna will come today.
'What am I going to do?'
I can't accept it! 'She cried out.'
'But, look, Dolly...'
'Go away, go away, go away! 'Not looking at him, she cried, as if this scream had been caused by physical pain.'
Stepan Arkadić could be calm when he thought of his wife, he could hope that everything would be formed, as Matway said, and he could read the newspaper and drink coffee in peace; but when he saw her tormented, suffering face, hearing that sound of voice, humbled to fate and desperate, he had breathed, something came up to his throat, and his eyes glistened with tears.
'My God, what have I done!
Dolly!
For God's sake!
'Cause -- he couldn't go on, sobbing stopped in his throat.
She slammed the chiffonier and looked at him.
'Dollie, what can I say?'
One thing: I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
Remember, can't nine years of life atone for minutes, minutes...
She looked down and listened, waiting for him to say, as if begging him to somehow disbelieve her.
'minutes... moments of passion...' he said, and wanted to continue, but with the word of physical pain, her lips began to shake again and the cheekbone jumped again on the right side of his face.
'Go away, get out of here! 'She screamed even more piercing,' and don't tell me about your passions, your abominations!
She wanted to leave, but she shivered and went behind the back of a chair to lean on.
His face was swollen, his lips swollen, and his eyes were filled with tears.
'Dolly! 'He spoke while he was overreacting.' 'For God's sake, think of the children, they are not to blame.
It's my fault, and punish me, tell me to make amends.
Anything I can do, I'm ready!
It's my fault, there's no telling how guilty I am!
But, Dolly, I'm sorry!
She sat down. He heard her heavy, loud breathing, and he felt incredibly sorry for her.
She wanted to start talking a few times, but she couldn't.
He waited.
'You remember the children to play with them, and I remember and know that they died now,' she said, apparently, one of the phrases she has spoken to herself many times in these three days.
She said to him, "You," and he looked at her with gratitude and touched himself to take her hand, but she repulsed herself from him.
'I remember the children, and therefore everything in the world would do to save them; but I do not know for myself what I will save them: whether what I will take away from my father or what I will leave with a depraved father -- yes, with a depraved father...'
Well, tell me, after what happened, is it possible for us to live together?
Is that possible?
Tell me, is that possible? 'She repeated, raising her voice.' 'After my husband, the father of my children, is in love with the governess of her children...
'But what shall we do?' What do you want to do? 'He spoke with a pathetic voice, not knowing what he was saying, and all below and below his head.
'You're disgusting, disgusting!' she cried, getting hotter and hotter. 'Your tears are water!
You have never loved me; you have neither a heart nor a grace.
You're disgusting, you're disgusting, you're a stranger, yes, a stranger! 'With pain and anger, she said this terrible word to herself as a stranger.
He looked at her, and the anger that appeared on her face frightened him, and surprised him.
He didn't realize that his pity for her was annoying to her.
She saw him as sorry for herself, but not love.
"No, she hates me. She won't forgive," he thought.
'This is awful! Terrible!-- he said it.
At that time, a child in another room, probably falling down, screamed; Darwina listened, and her face suddenly softened.
She must have remembered for a few seconds, as if she didn't know where she was and what to do, and when she got up quickly, she touched the door.
'But she loves my child,' he thought, seeing her face changed at the cry of the child,'my child; how can she hate me?'
'Dollie, one more word,' he said, following her.
'If you follow me, I will call the people, the children!
Let everyone know you're a scoundrel!
I'm leaving now, and you live here with your mistress!
And she came out slamming the door.
Stepan Arkadić sighed, wiped his face, and walked quietly out of the room.
"Matway says, "it will be formed; but how?
I don't even see an opportunity.
Ah, that's awful!
And how trivially she cried,' he said to himself, remembering her screaming and her words, a scoundrel and a mistress. 'And maybe the girls have heard!
Terrible trivial, awful."
Stepan Arkadić stood for a few seconds alone, wiped his eyes, sighed, and straightened his chest out of the room.
It was Friday, and in the dining room, the German clockmaker started the clock.
Stepan Arkadych remembered his joke about this neat slutty watchmaker that the German "has been turned on for the rest of his life to start a clock" -- and smiled.
Stepan Arkadić loved a good joke.
"Maybe it's gonna work out!
That's a good word: it's gonna work out,' he thought. 'This has to be told.'
'Mathaway!' he cried, 'So set things up with Mary in the couch for Anna Arkadyevna,' he said to Matway who appeared.
'I'm listening.'
Stepan Arkadić put on his coat and went out on the porch.
'Will you not eat at home?' 'Matway's companion said.
'As you have to.
Here's the money,' he said, serving ten rubles out of his wallet. 'Will it be enough?'
'Absolutely enough. Not enough, I can see it is necessary,' said Matway, closing the door and retreating to the porch.
Daria Alexandrovna, in the meantime, calmed the child and, by the sound of the carriage, realized that he had left, returned to the bedroom. It was the only refuge she had in her home when she left.
Already and now, in the short time that she was going out to the nursery, the English woman and Matron Philemononna had time to ask her a few questions, which were not urgent, and to which she alone could answer: What should she wear to the children's walks? Do you want to give milk? Shouldn't we send for another cook?
'Oh, leave me alone, leave me alone! 'She said, and when she returned to the bedroom, she sat back to the same place where she spoke to her husband, squeezing her hands with the rings coming down from her bony fingers, and began to recapture the entire previous conversation.
He's gone!
But how did he end up with her? 'I thought she did.' 'Does he see her?'
Why didn't I ask him?
No, no, you can't get together.
If we stay in the same house, we're strangers.
Forever to strangers!" 'She repeated again with a special meaning that is a terrible word for her. "And how I loved, my God, how I loved him!
How I loved it!
And now don't I love him?
Isn't that more than I've ever loved him?
Terrible, most importantly, she started, but she didn't finish her thought because Matrena Filimonna came out of the door.
'Of course, order your brother to send,' she said, 'all he will make lunch; otherwise the children are not Jewish until six o'clock yesterday.
'Well, all right, I'll be right out and I'll take care of it.
Did they send for fresh milk?
And Daria Alexandrovna drowned in the troubles of the day, and drowned in them for a while of her grief.
Stepan Arkadić studied well in school because of his good abilities, but he was lazy and slutty and therefore came out of the latter; but despite his always wandering life, small honors and old years, he held an honorary and well-paid chiefship in one of Moscow's presences.
But if Karenin hadn't assigned his brother-in-law to this place, a hundred other people, brothers, sisters, relatives, cousins, uncles, aunts, Steve Oblonsky would have gotten this place or something like that, in the thousands of salaries he needed because of what he did. Despite the wife's well-being, they were upset.
Half of Moscow and Petersburg were relatives and friends of Stepan Arkadjić.
He was born among those who were and became powerful in this world.
One third of the people of the state, the elderly, were friends of his father and knew him in his shirt; the other third were with him on "you" and the third were well acquainted; therefore, the people who distributed the earth's goods in the form of places, rents, concessions and the like were all his mates, and could not circumvent their own; and Oblonsky did not have to make a special effort to gain a place of advantage; it was only necessary not to refuse, not to be jealous, not to fight, not to be offended, what he had never done by virtue of his kindness.
He would have thought it would have been funny if he had been told that he wouldn't get the job with the salary he needed, especially since he didn't demand anything extraordinary; he only wanted what his peers had, and he could have done as much as any other.
Not only did Stepana Arkadiča love all those who knew him for his good, merry temper and unmistakable honesty, but there was something in him, in his beautiful, bright appearance, shiny eyes, black eyebrows, hair, whiteness and brown face, that was physically friendly and fun for people who met him.
"Yeah!
Steve! Oblonsky!
There he is!" 'They almost always smiled with joy when they met him.'
If it happened sometimes that after talking to him, nothing particularly happy happened -- on the other day, on the third day, again, everyone was just as happy when they met him.
For the third year, Stepan Arkadič took over the position of head of one of the places present in Moscow, except for love, and the respect of fellow workers, subordinates, superiors, and all those who dealt with him.
The main qualities of Stepan Arkadiych, who deserved this common respect in his service, were, first, to show extreme condescendingness to people based on his consciousness of his shortcomings; secondly, to perfect liberality, not the one he read out in the papers, but to what he had in his blood and with whom he was treated in the same way and in the same way as all people, no matter what condition or rank they were, and thirdly, most importantly, to complete indifference to what he had been doing, so that he had never been attracted to and made any mistakes.
Upon arriving at his place of service, Stepan Arkadić, walking by a respectful doorman, went into her small office with a briefcase, put on a uniform, and entered the presence.
The writers and the servants all stood up, bowing in a jolly and respectful manner.
Stepan Arkadić hastened, as always, to his place, shook hands with the cocks and sat down.
He joked and talked as much as it was proper, and started class.
No one better than Stepan Arkadyić could find that border of freedom, simplicity and officiality that was needed for pleasant business.
The secretary, as well as everyone in the presence of Stepan Arkadyić, came up with the papers and said to the family-liberal tone that was introduced by Stepan Arkadic:
'We have thus obtained information from the Penzen government of the Republic.
Here, would you like to...
'Did you finally get it?' 'Spoken to Stepan Arkadić, putting his finger on the paper.' 'Well, gentlemen...' And the presence began.
"If they had known," he thought, with a great deal of inclination at the hearing of the report, "what a guilty boy half an hour ago their chairman was!" 'And his eyes laughed when he read the report...'
Up to 2 p.m., classes were to be held without interruption, and at 2 p.m., breaks and breakfast.
There weren't two hours before the big glass doors of the presence halls suddenly opened and someone came in.
All the dicks from under the portrait and from behind the scratches looked back at the door, but the watchman standing by the door immediately drove out the enterer and locked the glass door behind him.
When the case was read, Stepan Arkadić stood up, reaching out, and, while paying tribute to the liberality of time, took out a papyroska in front of him and went to his office.
Two of his comrades, the old maid Nikitin and the Yunker Greenevich, went out with him.
'We shall finish after breakfast,' said Stepan Arkadić.
'How else can we make it!' said Nikitin.
'And the platitude must be this Fomin,' said Greenevich, about one of the persons involved in the case they were dealing with.
Stepan Arkadić groaned at Greenevich's words, making it feel that it was indecently premature to make judgment, and he didn't respond.
'Who came in? 'He asked the watchman.'
'Someone, Your Excellency, broke in without asking, but I turned away.
You were asked.
I say, when the dicks come out, then...
'Where is he?
'Neko went out into the hay 'cause everyone was walking around.
The same one, said the watchman, pointing to a heavily folded, broad-weared man with a curled beard who, without removing the lamb's hat, quickly and easily climbed up the wiped steps of the stone ladder.
One of those who went down with the briefcase was a skinny official who stopped and looked unconscionably at the runner's feet and then took a question-and-answer look at Oblonsky.
Stepan Arkadić was standing over the stairs. His good radiant face, because of the stitched collar of his uniform, glowed even more when he found out who was running.
'It is!
Levin, finally! 'He spoke with a friendly, laughing smile, looking at Levin who approached him.' 'How come you weren't sneaking around to find me in that bucket?' 'Stepan Arkadić said, not content to shake his hand and kiss his friend.' 'How long has it been?'
'I am here now, and I very much wanted to see you,' answered Levin, shyly, yet angry and anxiously looking around.
'Well, let's go to the office,' said Stepan Arkadych, who knew his friend's self-absorbed and angry shyness; and when he grabbed his hand, he led him along as if he were between the dangers.
Stepan Arkadić was on the "you" with almost all of his acquaintances: 60-year-olds, 20-year-old boys, actors, ministers, merchants, and General Adjutants, so very many of his former "you" were at two extremes of the public ladder and would be surprised to learn that they had something in common through Oblonsky.
He was on "you" with everyone with whom he drank champagne, and he drank champagne with everyone, and therefore, in the presence of his subordinates, by meeting his shameful "you" as he called joking with many of his buddies, he was able, with his own tact, to reduce the trouble of that impression for the subordinates.
Levin was not a ashamed "you," but Oblonsky felt with his tact that Levin thought that he might not want to show his closeness to him, so he hastened to take him to the office.
Levin was with Oblonski for almost one year and with him on "you" for more than one champagne.
Levin was his companion and friend of his first youth. They loved each other in spite of their differences in character and taste, as each other's buddies in their first youth loved.
Yet, as is often the case among people who have chosen different kinds of activities, each one of them, though he reasoned and justified the other's activities, despised her in his heart.
Everyone thought that the life he was leading was one real life, and that a friend was only a ghost.
Oblonsky could not hold a light laughing smile when he saw Levin.
He once saw him coming to Moscow from a village where he was doing something, but exactly what, that Stepan Arkadych never understood well, and he wasn't interested.
Levin always came to Moscow agitated, hasty, a little shy and annoyed by this shyness and much more with a completely new, unexpected view of things.
Stepan Arkadych laughed at it and loved it.
In the same way, Levin despised and laughed at his friend's urban way of life and his service, which he thought was nothing.
But the difference was that Oblonsky, doing what everyone was doing, laughed with self - confidence and kindness, and Levin was not presumptuous and sometimes angry.
'We've been waiting for you for a long time,' said Stepan Arkadić, entering the office and releasing Levin's hand, as if to show that the danger was over. 'It is very, very good to see you,' he continued. 'Well, what are you doing?
How?
When did you get here?
Levin was silent, looking at the faces of two friends of Oblonsky, and especially at the hand of an elegant Greenevich, with such white long fingers, with such long yellow, folded at the end of his fingernails, and such huge shiny cufflinks on his shirt that those hands apparently absorbed all his attention and did not give him freedom of thought.
Oblonsky immediately noticed it and smiled.
'Yes, let me introduce you,' he said. 'My comrades, Philippe Ivanich Nikitin, Michael Stanislavić Greenevich,' and turning to Levin, 'the earthly figure, the new earthly man, the gymnast raising five poodles with one hand, the herder and hunter, and my friend, Konstantin Dmitrich Levin, the brother of Sergei Ivanich Koznyshev.
'It is a pleasure,' said the old man.
'I have the honour to know your brother, Sergei Ivanovic,' said Greenevich, serving his thin hand with long fingernails.
Levin frowned, shook his hand coldly, and immediately turned to Oblon.
Although he had great respect for his brother, known all over Russia, the writer, but he hated being treated not as Konstantin Levin but as the brother of the famous Koznyshev.
'No, I am no longer an earthly figure. I broke up with everyone, and I don't go to meetings anymore,' he said, turning to Oblonsky.
'In no time! 'Oblonsky said with a smile. 'But how? Why?
'Long story. I'll tell you one day,' said Levin, but now I'm telling you. 'Well, briefly, I have made sure that there is no earthly activity, nor can there be,' he said, as if someone had offended him now, 'on the one hand, a toy played in parliament, and I am neither young enough nor old enough to play with toys; on the other hand, it is a means for county coterie to make money...'
There used to be guardianship, courts, and now the earth, not in the form of bribes, but in the form of an unfair salary,' he said so hotly, as if any of those present had challenged his opinion.
'Ege!
You, I see, are back in a new phase, in a conservative phase,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'But after that, though.'
'Yes, after.'
But I needed to see you,' said Levin, looking with hatred at Greenevich's hand.
Stepan Arkadić smiled a little bit.
'How did you say you would never wear a European dress again?' 'He said, looking around his new, apparently French tailor, dress. 'That's it! I see a new phase.
Levin suddenly blushed, but not as the adults are blushing -- slightly unaware of it, but as the boys are blushing -- feeling that they are laughing at their shyness and, as a result, becoming more ashamed and red, almost to tears.
And it was so weird to see this smart, manly face in such a childish state that Oblonsky stopped looking at it.
'Yes, where will I see you?'
'Cause I really, really need to talk to you,' said Levin.
It's as if Oblonsky was wondering:
'Here's the thing: Let's go to Gurin's for breakfast and talk there.
I'm free until three.
'No,' said Levin, thinking, 'I still have to go.
'Well, well, so lunch together,
'Would you like to have lunch?'
It's not a big deal, just say two words, ask, and then we'll talk.
'Now say two words and talk at lunch.
'Two words are these,' said Levin, 'but nothing is special. His face suddenly accepted an evil expression from an effort to overcome his shyness.
'What are the Shcherbatskys doing?'
Everything's the same? 'He said.'
Stepan Arkadić, who had long known that Levin was in love with his sister-in-law Kitty, smiled slightly, and his eyes glittered.
'You said two words, and I can't answer in two words because...
Excuse me for a minute...
The secretary came in with his family's respect and some, in common with all the secretaries, a modest sense of his superiority before his superior in the knowledge of affairs, came up with papers to Oblonski and became, under the guise of a question, an explanation of some difficulty.
Stepan Arkadić put his hand on the secretary's sleeve without listening.
'No, you do as I said,' he said, with a soft smile, and, briefly explaining how he understands the matter, moved the papers and said, 'Do so. Please, so, Zahar Nikitich.
The messed-up secretary's gone.
Levin, in his meeting with the secretary, completely recovered from his embarrassment, stood on both sides of the chair, and his face was filled with ridicule.
'I don't understand, I don't understand,' he said.
'What don't you understand? 'It was also fun to smile and deliver to the papyross,' said Oblonsky.
He was waiting for Levin to do something weird.
'I do not understand what you are doing,' said Levin, shaking his shoulders. 'How can you seriously do that?'
'Why?
'Cause there's nothing to do.
'You think so, but we're full of business.'
'Which is paperwork.'
Yes, you have a gift to that,' Levin added.
'I mean, do you think I have a lack of something?'
'Maybe so,' said Levin. 'But yet I look forward to your greatness and I am proud that I have such a great friend.
But you did not answer my question,' he added, with desperate effort, looking straight into the eye of Oblonski.
'All right, all right, all right.
Hang on a second, and you're gonna come to it.
Good, like you've got 3,000 tithes in Karazin County, and so much muscle and freshness as a 12-year-old girl -- and you'll come to us.
Yeah, so what you're asking is that there's no change, but it's a shame you haven't been in so long...
'Why? 'Scaredly asked Levin.'
'Nothing,' answered Oblonsky. 'We'll talk.
Why are you actually here?
'Oh, let's talk about it after, too,' said Levin, back to his ears red.
'Well, good. I see,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'You see, I would have called you to my house, but your wife is not well.'
Well, if you want to see them, they're probably in the Zoological Garden from four to five these days.
Kitty's skating.
You go there and I'll stop by and have lunch together.
'Great, goodbye.
'Look, you know, I know you, you're gonna forget or you're gonna go to the village! 'Cause he laughed, yelled at Stepan Arkadych.
'No, that's right. And when he remembered that he had forgotten to bow to the comrades of Oblon, only when he was already at the door did Levin come out of his office.
'The gentleman must be very energyful,' said Greenevich, when Levin came out.
'Yes, Father,' said Stepan Arkadić, shaking his head. 'He is a lucky man!'
Three thousand tens in Karazin County, all ahead, and how much freshness!
Not like our brother.
'Why do you complain, Stepan Arkadych?
'Oh, it's bad, it's bad,' said Stepan Arkadić, with a heavy sigh.
When Oblonsky asked Levin why he actually came, Levin blushed and became angry at himself for blushing because he couldn't answer him, "I came to propose to your sister-in-law," even though that's all he came for.
The houses of the Levins and the Shcherbatskys were old noble houses of Moscow, and they were always close and friendly to each other.
This bond became even stronger during Levin's studentship.
He studied together and joined the university with Prince Sherbatsky, his brother Dolly and Kitty.
At that time Levin often visited the Shcherbatsky house and fell in love with the Shcherbatsky house.
Strange as it may seem, Konstantin Levin was in love with the house, the family, especially the female half of the Shcherbatsky family.
Levin himself did not remember his mother, and his only sister was older than him, so in the house of the Shcherbatskys he first saw the very environment of the old noble, educated and honest family, to which he was deprived of the death of his father and mother.
All members of this family, especially the women's half, seemed to him to be covered with some mysterious, poetic veil, and not only did he not see any shortcomings in them, but under this poetic veil, the most lofty feelings and all kinds of perfection were meant to cover them.
Why did these three young women have to speak French and English in a day's time; why, in a well-known hour, they had to exchange pianos, the sound of which was always heard from their brother upstairs, where the students were studying; why those teachers of French literature, music, paintings, dances; why, during a well-known hour, all three young women with m-lle Linon had to ride in a wheelchair to Tver Boulevard in their atlas boulevards -- Dolli in a long, Natalie in a semi-long world, and Kitty in a perfectly short one, so that her steaked legs in the tight red stockings were all visible; why they had to walk through the Tver boulevard -- all this and many other things that were being done in their mysterious world -- he didn't realize that everything that was being done there was beautiful, and he was in love with this mysterious act.
During his high school, he almost fell in love with the older one, Dolly, but she was soon married to Oblonsky.
Then he started falling in love with the other one.
He felt like he needed to fall in love with one of his sisters, but he couldn't figure out which one.
But Natalie just showed up, married Lvov's diplomat.
Kitty was still a child when Levin left the university.
The young Shcherbatsky drowned in the Baltic Sea, and Levin's relationship with the Shcherbatskys, despite his friendship with Oblonski, became more rare.
But this year, at the beginning of winter, Levin came to Moscow after a year in the village and saw the Shcherbatskys, he realized which of the three he was really destined to fall in love with.
It would seem that nothing could be easier for him, a good breed, more rich than a poor man, thirty-two years old, to propose to Princess Scherbatsky; in all likelihood, he would immediately be recognized as a good party.
But Levin was in love, and therefore he felt that Kitty was so perfect in all respects, such a creature above all the earth, and he was such an earthly lowlife that there could be no thought of others and she herself finding him worthy of it.
After spending two months in Moscow, almost every day, seeing Kitty in the light of where he went to meet her, Levin suddenly decided that it could not be, and left for the village.
Levin's conviction that this could not be the case was based on the fact that in the eyes of his family he was an unprofitable, unworthy party for the adorable Kitty, and Kitty himself could not love him.
In his family &apos; s eyes, he had no usual, certain activity and position in light, while his comrades now, when he was thirty-two years old, were already -- which was a colonel and a plague adjuant who was a professor who was the director of the bank and railways or the chairman of the presence, like Oblonski; he (he knew very well what he should have seemed to others) was a farmer who was engaged in raising cows, shooting dupels and constructions, that is, a giftless little man from whom nothing had come out, and who, by the way of society, was doing what people who weren &apos; t good at.
The most mysteriously adorable Kitty could not love as ugly as he thought he was, a man, and above all, such a simple, unsurprising man.
Moreover, his previous relationship with Kitty -- an adult relationship to a child, due to his friendship with her brother -- seemed to him to be a new barrier to love.
The ugly, kind man he thought could, he thought, love as a friend, but to be loved by the love he himself loved Kitty, he had to be handsome and, above all, a special person.
He had heard that women often loved ugly, ordinary people, but did not believe it because they judged on their own because they could only love beautiful, mysterious, and special women.
But after two months alone in the village, he became convinced that it was not one of the lovers he had experienced in his first youth; that the feeling did not give him minutes of rest; that he could not live without deciding whether or not she would be his wife; and that his despair was only from his imagination, that he had no proof that he would be denied.
And now he's come to Moscow with a firm decision to propose and get married if he's accepted.
Or... he couldn't think about what would happen to him if he was refused.
When Levin came with the morning train to Moscow, he stopped at his older brother's mother, Koznyshev, and changed his clothes, and went into his office to tell him immediately why he had come, and to ask for his advice: but the brother was not alone.
He had a well-known professor of philosophy who came from Kharkov, actually, to explain the misunderstanding that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical issue.
The professor held a heated debate against the materialists, and Sergei Koznyshev followed this debate with interest and, after reading the Professor's latest article, wrote to him in his letter his objections; he reproached the professor for making too many concessions to the materialists. And the professor came right away to bump into you.
It was a fashionable question: is there a boundary between mental and physiological phenomena in human activity, and where is it?
Koznyshev met his brother with his usual sweet, cold smile and, after introducing him to the professor, continued the conversation.
A little yellow man wearing glasses, with a narrow forehead, was distracted for a moment from talking to say hello, and continued his speech without paying attention to Levin.
Levin sat down waiting for the professor to leave, but soon became interested in the subject matter of the conversation.
Levin met the articles in the magazines and read them, interested in them, as the development of his acquaintances, as a naturalist in the university, as the basis of natural knowledge, but never brought these scientific conclusions about the origin of man as an animal, the reflexes, biology, and sociology closer to the meaning of life and death to himself, which has come to his mind more often and more often recently.
Listening to his brother's conversation with the professor, he noticed that they had connected scientific questions to their hearts, that they almost approached them several times, but every time they came close to what seemed to be their main point, they immediately moved away and went further into the realm of thin units, reservations, quotations, hints, references to authority, and he found it difficult to understand what they were talking about.
'I cannot allow it,' said Koznyshev, with the usual clarity and elegance of the expression and the grace of the instruction, 'I cannot agree with Keyes in any way that my whole view of the outside world should flow from impressions.
The most basic notion of being has not come to my senses, for there is no special body to convey it.
'Yes, but they, Wurst, and Knaust, and the supplies, will tell you that your consciousness of being comes from the sum of all the senses that this consciousness of being is the result of feeling.'
Wurst even clearly says that if there's no feeling, there's no concept of being.
'I say the opposite,' Koznyshev began...
But Levin again felt that they went back to the top, and he decided to ask the professor a question.
'So if my feelings are destroyed, if my body dies, there can be no existence?' 'He asked.'
Professor with annoyance and as if mental pain from the break looked back at a strange questioner who looked more like a driller than a philosopher, and turned his eyes to Sergei Ivanovich, as if asking: What is there to say?
But Koznyshev, who spoke with the wrong energy and unilaterality as a professor, and who had left room in his head to respond to the professor and together understand the simple and natural point of view with which the question had been made, smiled and said:
'This is a question we do not yet have the right to decide...'
'We have no data,' confirmed the professor and continued his arguments. 'No,' he said, 'I point out that if, as the Reserves clearly say, feel and have an impression, then we must strictly distinguish between these two concepts.
Levin did not listen anymore and waited for the professor to leave.
When the professor left, Sergei Ivanovic turned to his brother:
'I'm very glad you're here.
For how long?
What's the farm?
Levin knew that the household was of little interest to the older brother and that he had asked him about it only by making a concession, so he only replied about the sale of wheat and money.
Levin wanted to tell his brother about his intention to marry and to ask his advice, he even decided to do so firmly; but when he saw his brother, he listened to his conversation with the professor, when he heard that involuntary patronymic tone with which the brother had asked him about his business (their mother's property was weekly and Levin was in charge of both parts), Levin felt that he could not, for some reason, begin talking to his brother about his decision to marry.
He felt that his brother wasn't going to look at it the way he wanted.
'Well, what's your land like? 'Ask Koznyshev, who was very interested in the earth and attributed him great importance.
'Oh, right, I don't know...'
'How?
You're a member of the board, aren't you?
'No, I'm not a dick; I'm out,' answered Constantin Levin, 'and I don't go to meetings anymore.
'That's too bad! 'Speaked Koznyshev, frowning.
Levin explained in exculpatory terms what had been done at the meetings in his village.
'That's always how it is! 'Cause Koznyshev interrupted him. 'We Russians are always like this.
This may be a good feature of ours -- the ability to see our shortcomings, but we oversell, we comfort ourselves with the irony that we always have in our language.
I'll just tell you that if you gave the same rights as our Earth institutions, to the other European people -- the Germans and the English would create freedom out of them, and we're just laughing.
'But what shall we do?' 'It was Levin's fault. 'This was my last experience.
And I tried my best.
I can't.
Impossible.
'Impossible,' said Koznyshev, 'you are not looking at the case like this.
'Maybe,' Levin answered with sadness...
'And you know, Brother Nikolai is here again...'
Nikolai's brother was Konstantin Levin's older brother and Koznyshev's half-brother, who had lost a greater share of his fortune, who had been spinning in the strangest and worst society and had had a squawk with his brothers.
'What are you saying? 'Scaredly cried Levin.'
'How do you know?
'Procofius saw him on the street.
'Here in Moscow?'
Where is he?
You know? 'Then Levin stood up from his chair, as if he were going to walk immediately.'
'I regret that I told you this,' said Sergei Ivanovic, shaking his head on the worry of his younger brother. 'I sent him to find out where he lived, and I sent him his Tube, on which I paid.
That's what he said to me.
And Koznyshev gave his brother a note from the press.
Levin read in a strange, own handwriting: "Please leave me alone.
That's one thing I'm asking of my kind brothers. Nikolai Levin."
Levin read this and, without raising his head, with a note in his hand stood before Sergei Ivanovic.
In his heart there was a desire to forget his unhappy brother and to realize that it would be bad.
'He obviously wants to insult me,' he continued, 'but he cannot insult me, and I would love to help him with all my heart, but I know that this cannot be done.
'Yes, yes,' said Levin. 'I understand and appreciate your attitude toward him; but I will go to him.
'If you want to go, go, but I do not advise,' said Koznyshev. 'I mean, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not afraid of it; he won't join me; but for you, I advise you not to go.
You can't help me.
Anyway, do what you want.
'Maybe you can't help, but I feel, especially at this moment -- well, that's another -- I feel that I can't be calm.
'Well, I don't understand that,' said Koznyshev. 'I understand one thing,' he added, 'it is a lesson in humility.
I felt more condescending about what was called sneaky after Nikolai's brother became what he was...
You know what he did...
'Oh, that's awful, awful! 'I repeat it to Levin.
After receiving the address of his brother from the footman Sergei Ivanovic, Levin was about to go to him, but after thinking, he decided to postpone his journey until the evening.
First of all, in order to have peace of mind, it was necessary to resolve the matter for which he had come to Moscow.
From his brother Levin went to the presence of Oblonsky and, after learning about the Shcherbatskys, went to a place where he was told that he could catch Kitty.
At four o'clock, feeling his beating heart, Levin cried from the train at the Zoological Garden, and went down the road to the mountains and the rink, probably knowing that he would find it there, because he saw a carriage of Shcherbatskys at the entrance.
At the entrance there were carriages, sleigh, baths, gendarmes. The pure people, glittering in the bright sun with their hats, crawled at the entrance and on the clear paths, between Russian houses with cut princes; the old curly birches of the garden, hanging all branches from the snow, seemed to have been ripped apart into the new solemn rises.
He walked down the road to the rink and said to himself, "Don't worry, you have to calm down.
What are you talking about?
What are you doing?
Silence, stupid,' he turned to his heart.
And the more he tried to calm himself, the worse his breath got.
A friend met him and called him, but Levin didn't even know who it was.
He came up to the mountains, where the chains of descending and lifting sleds were clattering, the crawling sleds were sounding, and the voices were hilarious.
He went a few more steps, and the skating was opened to him, and immediately he recognized her among all the skating people.
He learned that she was here for the joy and fear that engulfed his heart.
She stood talking to the lady at the opposite end of the rink.
Nothing seemed to be special in her clothes or in her pose; but it was as easy for Levin to know her in this crowd as a rose in a creep.
Everything was covered by her.
She was a smile that brightened everything around her.
"Can I go over there, on the ice, get to her?" 'He thought.'
The place where she was seemed more inaccessible to him, and the minute he almost left, he became so scared.
He needed to make an effort to think that people of all kinds were walking around her, that he himself might have come there skating.
He went down, avoiding long looking at her as in the sun, but he saw her as the sun, without looking.
On the ice this day of the week and at this time of the day, people of the same mug, all familiar with each other.
There were also masters of skating, with art, and studying behind chairs, with shy movements, and boys, and old men skating for the sake of hygiene; they all seemed to Levin to be the chosen happy ones, because they were here near her.
All the skaters seemed to overtake her completely indifferently, to catch up with her, even to talk to her, and to enjoy themselves entirely independently of her, using fine ice and good weather.
Nikolai Shcherbatsky, Kitty's cousin, in a short jacket and tight pantalons, sat with skates on his feet on the bench, and when he saw Levin, he cried out to him:
'Ah, the first Russian skater!
How long?
Nice ice, put your skates on.
'I don't even have skates,' answered Levin, wondering at this courage and looseness in her presence and not losing sight of her for a second, even though he did not look at her.
He felt the sun approaching him.
She was on the coal and, dumbly, put narrow legs in your boots, apparently a robe, rolled toward him, desperately waving his hands and bent to the ground, a boy in a Russian dress overtaking her.
She didn't roll very hard; when she took her hands out of the little muft hanging on the snork, she kept them ready and, looking at Levin, whom she recognized, smiled at him and her fear.
When the turn was over, she gave herself a lift with a firm foot, and went straight to Shcherbatsky; and when she grasped him with her hand, smiling, she nodded to Levin.
She was more beautiful than he imagined.
When he thought of her, he could imagine her alive, especially the beauty of this one, with the expression of child's clarity and kindness, a small blonde head so freely placed on her chick's shoulders.
The child's expression of her face in connection with the fine beauty of the camp was her special beauty, which he well remembered; but what always, as surprise struck her, was the expression of her eyes, mild, calm and truthful, and in particular her smile, which had always carried Levin to a magical world, where he felt comfortable and softened, as he could remember in the rare days of his early childhood.
'How long have you been here? 'She said, giving him her hand.' 'Thank you,' she added when he raised the handkerchief that fell out of her muft.
'I am? I was recently, I was yesterday... I mean... I arrived today,' answered Levin, not all of a sudden, when I realized her question. 'I wanted to go to you,' he said, and immediately, remembering the purpose with which he had sought her, confused and blushed. 'I didn't know you were ice skating, and you're fine skating.
She looked closely at him as if she wanted to understand why he was embarrassed.
'Your praise should be appreciated.
There was a tradition here that you were the best skater,' she said, shaking a little pen in a black glove of needles that fell on the muft.
'Yes, I used to drive with passion; I wanted to be perfect.
'You all seem to be doing with passion,' she said, smiling. 'I'm so excited to see you ride.
Put on your skates, and let's ride together.
"Ride together!
Is that possible?" 'I thought Levin looked at her.'
'I will now put on,' he said, and he went to put on skates.
'We haven't had one for a long time, sir,' said the conductor, supporting his leg and swollen heel. 'There are no masters after you.'
Is that gonna be good? 'He said, wearing a belt.'
'Okay, okay, quickly, please,' answered Levnn, struggling to keep a smile of happiness on his face.
'Yes,' he thought, 'this is life, this is happiness!
Together, she said, let's ride together.
Tell her now?
But that's why I'm afraid to say that I'm happy now, happy at least with hope...
And then?
Wow! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey!
Get away from weakness!"
Levin came on his feet, took off his coat, and ran off on the shrub by the ice house, ran out onto the smooth ice, and rolled without effort, as if by his own will he was hurrying, twirling, and running.
He approached her with shyness, but again her smile calmed him down.
She gave him her hand, and they went near him, increasing the pace, and the faster she pressed his hand.
'I would rather learn with you, I am somehow certain of you,' she said to him.
'And I am sure of myself when you lean on me,' he said, but immediately he was afraid of what he said and blushed.
And indeed, as soon as he said those words, suddenly the sun set after the clouds, her face lost all its sweetness, and Levin recognized the familiar game of her face, meaning the effort of thought: her wrinkled on her smooth forehead.
'Do you have anything unpleasant?'
But I have no right to ask,' he quickly said.
'Why?'
No, I have nothing unpleasant,' she replied, cold and immediately added:--Did you see mademoiselle Linon?
'Not yet.
'Come to her, she loves you so much.'
"What is it?
I upset her.
Lord, help me!" 'I thought Levin and ran to the old French woman with the gray bouquets sitting on the bench.'
Smileing and putting out her fake teeth, she met him as an old friend.
'Yeah, here we are,' she said to him, pointing her eyes at Kitty, 'and we are getting old.
Tiny Bear is already big!' continued the French woman laughing, and reminded him of his joke about three young ladies he called three bears from an English fairy tales. 'Remember what you used to say?
He was determined not to remember it, but she had laughed and loved it for ten years.
'Well, go, go for a ride.'
It's been a good ride for Kitty, isn't it?
When Levin ran up to Kitty again, her face was no longer strict, her eyes looked just as truthful and sweet, but Levin felt that she had a special, deliberately calm tone.
And he got sad. Talking about her old governess, her weirdness, she asked him about his life.
'Aren't you bored in the winter in the village? 'She said.'
'No, I'm not bored, I'm very busy,' he said, feeling that she was subjugating her calm tone from which he would not be able to escape, just as it was at the beginning of winter.
'How long have you been here?' 'Cause Kitty asked him.
'I don't know,' he answered without thinking about what he was saying.
The thought that if he gave in to her tone of quiet friendship, he would leave again, without a decision, and came to him, and he became indignant.
'How do you not know?'
'I don't know.
It's up to you,' he said, and immediately he was horrified by what he said.
Whether she heard what he had said or didn't want to hear it, she kind of tripped over two times with her foot, and rushed away from it. She drove up to m-lle Linon, said something to her, and went to the house where the ladies filmed skates.
"Oh, my God, what did I do!
Oh, my God! 'Help me, teach me,' said Levin, praying, yet feeling the need for strong movement, running away and writing out external and internal circles.
At that time, one of the young men, the best of the new skaters, with a papyro in his mouth, in his skates, came out of the coffee shop and, running away, rode down the steps, thundering and jumping.
He flew downstairs, and without even changing his hands, he rolled on the ice.
'Oh, it's a new thing! 'Said Levin, and immediately ran upstairs to make this new thing.
'Don't worry, you've got to get used to it! 'Called him Nikolai Shcherbatsky.'
Levin entered into the attacks, ran from above as much as he could, and went down, holding the balance with his hands in an unusual motion.
At the last stage, he got caught, but when he touched the ice with his hand, he made a strong move, managed and laughed and rolled on.
"Great, sweet," thought Kitty at that time, walking out of the house with m-lle Linon and looking at him with a smile of quiet affection, like her beloved brother.
"Is it my fault that I did anything wrong?
They say flirty.
I know I don't love him, but I'm having fun with him, and he's so sweet.
Why would he say that?" 'I thought she did.'
When she saw Kitty leaving and her mother meeting her on the steps, Levin turned red after a rapid movement and stopped and thought.
He took off his skates and caught up with his mother and daughter at the garden exit.
'It is very good to see you,' said the Princess. 'Thursdays, as always, we accept.
'So now?'
'It is very good to see you,' said the Princess, dryly.
The dryness upset Kitty, and she couldn't resist wanting to make up for her mother's coldness.
She turned her head and said with a smile:
'Goodbye.
At that time, Stepan Arkadić, with his hat on his side, shiny face and eyes, entered the garden with a happy winner.
But when he approached his mother-in-law, he answered her questions about Dolly's health with a sad, guilty face. When he spoke quietly and was disheartened with his mother - in - law, he straightened his chest and took it under Levin's hand.
'Well, shall we go?' 'He asked.' 'I've been thinking about you, and I'm very glad you came,' he said, looking him in the eye with a large view.
'Come on, let's go!' answered happy Levin, who continued to hear the sound of the voice, saying, 'Goodbye,' and to see the smile with whom it was said.
'Anglia or Ermitage?'
'I don't care.
'Well, in England,' said Stepan Arkadych, choosing England because he had more to do with England than Ermitage. That's why he didn't think it was good to avoid this hotel. 'Do you have a driver?'
That's great, 'cause I let the carriage go.
All the way, buddies kept quiet.
Levin thought about what this change of expression meant on Kitty's face, and he assured himself that there was hope, then he went into despair and clearly saw that his hope was insane, yet he felt like a completely different person than he had been before her smile and goodbye.
Stepan Arkadić, dear, wrote the menu.
'You like turbo, don't you? 'He said to Levin, coming.'
'What? 'I asked Levin again. 'Turbo?
Yeah, I'm awfully fond of turbo.
When Levin entered the hotel with Oblonski, he could not help but notice a certain feature of the expression, as if it were a discreet radiance, on the face and in the entire figure of Stepan Arkadiyić. Olonian took off his coat and in his hat he went to the cafeteria, giving orders to his cockroaches and napkins.
Bowing to the right and to the left he found himself, and here, as everywhere happy to meet his acquaintances, he came up to the buffet, bit the vodka with a fish, and said something like that, painted in ribbons, laces and curls of a French woman sitting behind her office, that even this French woman laughed sincerely. Levin only did not drink vodka, which was offensive to him by this French woman, all of whom seemed to be of foreign hair, poudre de riz and vinaigre de toilette.
He walked away from her like a filthy place. His whole soul was full of a memory of Kitty, and in his eyes there was a smile of celebration and happiness.
'This way, your ladyship, perhaps won't be disturbed here, Your ladyship,' said especially the sticky old bleached tantar with a wide pelvis and the fracco falds that passed over it. 'Perhaps, Your Ladyship,' he said to Levin, in tribute to Stepan Arkadyich, taking care of his guest.
In an instant, by spreading a fresh tablecloth to a table already covered by the tablecloth under a bronze brow, he moved the velvet chairs and stopped in front of Stepan Arkadić with a napkin and a card in his hand, waiting for orders.
'If you wish, Your Ladyship, a separate cabinet will now speak: Prince Golitsyn with the lady.
The oysters are fresh.
'Ah! oysters.
Stepan Arkadych thought about it.
'Aren't you going to change the plan, Levin? 'He said, stopping his finger on the map.' And his face was very perplexed. 'Are the oysters good?
Look at that!
'Flensburg, Your Ladyship, no Ostendian.
'Flexburg is flexburg, isn't it?
'Yesterday has been received. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It was received yesterday. &lt;i&gt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;/i&gt;It was received.&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt;It was received.
'Well, shall we start with the oysters and then change the whole plan?' Huh?
'I don't care.
I'm better than stings and porridge, but it's not here.
'Kasha and la Russ, will you order me? 'Tatarine said, as a nanny over a child, bent over Levin.
'No, without joking about what you choose, that's fine.
I was skating, and I'm hungry.
And don't think,' he added, with a disgruntled expression on his face,'so I wouldn't appreciate your choice.
I'd love to eat well.
'Of course I am!
Saying nothing, it is one of the pleasures of life,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'Well, give us, my brother, oysters two, or little -- three dozen, root soup...'
'Prentier,' picked up the Tartarin.
But, apparently, Stepan Arkadić didn't want to give him the pleasure of calling it a French cuisine.
'With roots, you know?
Then the turbo under the thick sauce, then the roast beef, make sure it's good.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Tartarin, remembering Stepan Arkadyich's manner of not calling the cuisine on the French map, did not repeat it, but had the pleasure of repeating the entire order on the map: "Soup prentier, Turbo Soos Bomarche, Pulard a Lestragon, Maseduan de Frye..." -- and immediately, as in springs, by putting one interlocked map and picking up another, a wine map, brought her to Stepan Arkadyich.
'What shall we drink?'
'I want only a little champagne,' said Levin.
'How? First?
It's true, though, isn't it?
Do you like a white seal?
'Cache blan,' picked up the Tartarin.
'Well, give this stamp to the oysters, and it will be visible.'
'I'm listening.' What do you want me to do?
'Nyui, hand it over.' No, I'd rather have a classic shabby.
'I'm listening.'
Would you like your cheese?
'Yes, the parmesan.
Or do you like someone else?
'No, I don't care,' said Levin.
And the thatar with the falds flying over the wide pelvis ran and five minutes later flew in with a dish open on the pearmute shells of oysters and a bottle between the fingers.
Stepan Arkadić snatched the napkin, shoved it behind his vest, and put his hands to rest, took up the oysters.
'And they are not bad,' he said, snatching a silver fork with a perlamoured shell of oysters drowning and swallowing them one after the other. 'Not bad,' he repeated, throwing damp and shiny eyes at Levin and the Tartarin.
Levin also ate oysters, although white bread and cheese were better for him.
But he was staring at Oblonsky.
Even the thatarin, who swerved the cork and spilled the playful wine through thin thin glasses, with a visible smile of pleasure, adjusted his white tie and looked at Stepan Arkadyich.
'Aren't you very fond of oysters? 'Stepan Arkadić said, drinking his glass,' or are you concerned?
He wanted Levin to have fun.
But Levin wasn't fun, he was shy.
With what he had in his soul, he felt awful and uncomfortable in the inn, between the offices where they had lunch with the ladies, among the runners and the fuss; this atmosphere of bronze, mirrors, gas, Tatars -- all of which was offensive to him.
He was afraid of messing with his soul.
Yes, I am concerned; but I am also embarrassed by it,' he said. 'You can't imagine how for me, a villager, it's all wild as the fingernails of the gentleman I've seen with you...'
'Yes, I saw that you were very interested in poor Greenevich's fingernails,' said Stepan Arkadić, laughing.
'I can't,' answered Levin. 'Thou shalt try, enter into me, thou shalt see the point of view of the villagers.'
We in the village try to put our hands in such a position as to make it convenient for them to work; to do so, we cut off our fingernails, sometimes we scrape our sleeves.
And then people let their nails loose on purpose, as long as they can hold on, and stick them in the form of platter cufflinks so they can't do anything with their hands.
Stepan Arkadić smiled funny.
'Yes, it is a sign that he does not need hard labour.
He's got a mind...
'Maybe. But I'm still freaking out, just as I'm crazy now that we villagers are trying to get ready to be able to do our job, and you and I are trying not to eat as much as we can and eat oysters for as long as possible...
'Well, of course,' picked up Stepan Arkadić. 'But that's the goal of education: to make the pleasure out of everything.'
'Well, if that's the goal, I'd like to be wild,
'You're already a dick...'
You're all Wild Levins.
Levin sighed.
He remembered his brother Nikolai, and he felt shame and pain, and he frowned; but Oblonsky spoke of an object that immediately distracted him.
'Well, why don't you go to ours tonight, to Shcherbatsky?' 'He said, pushing aside empty woolly shells, bringing cheese and much shiny eyes.'
'Yes, I will certainly go,' answered Levin. 'But it seemed to me that the Princess was reluctant to call me.
'Oh, come on!
That's bullshit!
It's her manner...
Come on, brother, soup!
That's her manner, grande dame,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'I will come, too, but I have to sing to Countess Banina.
How come you're not a dick?
How do you explain that you suddenly disappeared from Moscow?
The Scherbatskys have been asking me about you as if I should know.
All I know is that you always do things nobody does.
'Yes,' said Levin slowly and excitedly. 'You're right, I'm a dick.
But my savagery isn't that I'm gone, it's that I'm here now.
Now I'm here.
'Oh, you are so lucky! 'Put down Stepan Arkadić, looking into Levin's eyes.
'Why?
'I recognize the horses of revulsion by some of their tavres, and I recognize the young men of love by their eyes,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'You've got everything ahead of you.
'Do you have any backs?'
'No, don't go back, but you have a future, and I have a real one.
'Why?
'No, it's not.
Well, I want to talk about myself, and I can't explain everything,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'So why did you come to Moscow?'
Hey, take it! 'He cried out to the Tartarin.'
'Do you have any idea?' 'O Levin answered, not coming down from Stepan Arkadych into the depths of his glowing eyes.'
'I can guess, but I can't start talking about it. That's why you can see whether or not I can guess,' said Stepan Arkadić, with a subtle smile looking at Levin.
'What will you tell me?' 'O Levin said with a trembling voice, and feeling that all the muscles were shaking on his face.' 'How do you feel about that?
Stepan Arkadič slowly drank his glass of shebly, keeping an eye on Levin.
'I am? 'Stepan Arkadić said,' I wouldn't want anything as much as this.
It's the best thing that could've happened.
'But you're not wrong?
Do you know what we're talking about? 'Said Levin with the eyes of his companion.' 'Do you think that's possible?
'I think it's possible.
Why isn't it possible?
'No, you really think that's possible?
No, you tell me everything you think!
Well, what if I'm gonna say no?
And I'm pretty sure...
'Why do you think that?' 'Smile at his excitement,' said Stepan Arkadić.
'That's what I think sometimes.
'Cause it's gonna be awful for me and for her.
'Well, there's nothing terrible about a girl here anyway.
Every girl is proud of the offer.
'Yes, every girl, but not her.
Stepan Arkadić smiled.
He was so aware of this feeling of Levin, he knew that for him all the girls in the world were divided into two classes: one class is all the girls in the world except her, and these girls have all the human weaknesses, and the girls are very common; the other class is one, without any weakness, and above all human beings.
'Wait, take the sauce,' he said, holding Levin's hand, who pushed the sauce away from him.
Levin humbled himself with sauce, but refused to eat Stepan Arkadyich.
'No, you wait, you wait,' he said. 'You realize this is a matter of life and death for me.
I never talked to anyone about it. And I can't talk to anyone about it like you.
But I know that you love me and understand me, and that I love you terribly, but, for God's sake, be honest.
'I tell you what I think,' said Stepan Arkadić smiling. 'But I will tell you more: my wife is an amazing woman...' Stepan Arkadić sighed, remembering his relationship with his wife, and, silently, continued:--she has a gift of anticipation.
She sees people through; but that is not enough -- she knows what will happen, especially with regard to marriage.
She, for example, predicted that Shahovsky would marry Brenteln.
No one wanted to believe it, but that's what happened.
And she's on your side.
'What do you mean?
'So it is not enough that she loves you,' she says that Kitty will surely be your wife.
With these words, Levin's face suddenly shined with a smile, the one close to the tears of comfort.
'She says so! 'Screamed Levin.' 'I always said she was adorable, your wife.
That's enough, that's enough to talk about,' he said, standing up.
'All right, but sit down.
But Levin couldn't sit.
He walked through the cage room twice, waved his eyes so he wouldn't see tears, and then sat down again at the table.
'You understand,' he said, 'that this is not love.'
I was in love, but that's not it.
It's not my feeling, it's some power outside me.
'Cause I left because I thought it couldn't be, you know, like happiness that doesn't exist on earth, but I fought with myself and I see that there's no life without it.
And we have to decide...
'Why did you leave?'
'Oh, wait!
Ah, so many thoughts!
How many questions do I have to ask!
Listen.
You can't imagine what you did for me with what you said.
I'm so happy I even got ugly; I forgot everything...
I found out today that Nikolai's brother... you know, he's here... I forgot about him, too.
I think he's happy too.
It's kind of crazy.
But one terrible thing...
You get married, you know that feeling... it's terrible that we're old, with past... not love, but sins... suddenly get close to a pure, innocent being; it's disgusting, so you can't help but feel unworthy.
'Well, you don't have a lot of sins.'
'Ah, though,' said Levin, 'how repulsively I read my life, I trembling and curse, and bitterly complain...'
Yes.
'Well, that's how the world works,' said Stepan Arkadych.
'One consolation, as in this prayer, which I have always loved, that forgive me not for what I deserve, but for mercy.'
All she can do is forgive...
Levin drank his glass, and they shut up. 'There's one more thing I have to tell you.
Do you know Vronsky? 'Stepan Arkadić Levin asked.'
'No, I don't.
Why do you ask?
'Give me another one,' turned Stepan Arkadić to the Tartarin, who was pouring glasses and spinning around them, precisely when he wasn't needed.
'Why would I know Wronsky?'
'And then you will know Vronsky that this is one of your competitors.'
'What is Wronsky?' 'Oblonsky said, and his face turned into evil and unpleasant.'
'Vronsky is one of the sons of Count Cyril Ivanovich of Wronski and one of the best samples of the golden youth of Peterburg.
I recognized him in Tveri when I was there, and he came to the recruitment kit.
Scaredly rich, handsome, big connections, plague adutant, and yet very sweet, kind fellow.
But more than just a kind guy.
As I have recognized him here, he is educated and very smart; he is a man who will go far.
Levin frowned and remained silent.
'Well, he came here shortly after you, and it is my understanding that he is in love with Kitty, and you realize that his mother...
'Excuse me, but I don't understand anything,' said Levin, drowningly.
And immediately he remembered Nikolai's brother and how nasty he could have forgotten about him.
'Wait, wait,' said Stepan Arkadić, smiling and touching his hand. 'I told you what I know, and I repeat that in this delicate and delicate matter, as far as I can guess, I think the odds are on your side.
Levin leaned back on his chair, his face was pale.
'But I would advise you to resolve the matter as soon as possible,' continued Oblonsky, sharing a glass with him.
'No, thank you, I can no longer drink,' said Levin, moving his glass away. 'I will be drunk...'
So, how are you? 'He continued, apparently wanting to change the conversation.'
'Another word: In any case, I recommend that the matter be resolved sooner.
Now I do not advise you to speak,' said Stepan Arkadych. 'Go tomorrow morning, classically, to propose, and may God bless you...'
'Well, did you, everyone, want to come to my place to hunt?' Come here in spring,' said Levin.
Now he's all heartbroken that he started this conversation with Stepan Arkadyich.
His special feeling was defiled by the conversation about the competition of some Peterburger officer, the assumptions and advice of Stepan Arkadjić.
He understood what had been done in Levin's soul.
'I will come one day,' he said. 'Yes, brother, &apos; women are the screws on which everything is spinning.
My case is bad, very bad.
All from women.
You tell me frankly,' he continued, delivering the cigar and holding his hand by the glass, 'you give me advice.
'But what is it?
'Here's the thing.
Let's say you're married, you love your wife, but you're attracted to another woman...
'I'm sorry, but I don't really understand it, as if... I still don't understand how I would, if I had eaten myself, immediately go by the doll and steal the dough.'
Stepan Arkadyich's eyes are more of an ordinary glitter.
Kalach sometimes smells so bad you can't help yourself. Himmlich ist's, Wenn ich bezwungen Meine irdische Begier; Aber noch Wenn's nicht gelungen, Hatt'ich auch recht Hubsch Plaisir!
Speaking of which, Stepan Arkadych, smiled thinly. Levin too could not help smiling.
'Yes, but no joke,' continued Oblonsky. 'You understand that a woman, a sweet, gentle, loving creature, poor, alone, and sacrificed everything.'
Now that it's done, you understand, will you leave her?
Let's say break up so that you don't ruin your family life, but don't you feel sorry for it, don't set it up, relax it?
'Well, if you'll excuse me.
You know, for me, all women are divided into two kinds... I mean, no... well, there are women, and there are...
I have not seen, nor will I see, the beautiful fallen creatures, and those like that painted French woman at the office, with the scrolls -- these are for me, and all the fallen ones are the same.
'And the Evangelian?'
'Oh, come on!
Christ would never say those words if he knew how to abuse them.
All the Gospels remember these words.
But I'm not saying what I think, I'm saying what I feel.
I'm disgusted with fallen women.
You're scared of spiders, and I'm the bastards.
I mean, you probably didn't study spiders and you don't know their manners, so do I.
'It is good for you to say so; it is still like this savage master, who throws all the difficult questions over his right shoulder with his left hand.
But denying the fact is not an answer.
What are you gonna do, tell me what to do?
Your wife's getting old, and you're full of life.
You won't have time to look back, like you already feel that you can't love your wife's love, no matter how much you respect her.
And then there's love, and you're gone, and you're gone! 'Stepan Arkadić said with sad despair.'
Levin laughed.
'Yes, and went missing,' continued Oblonsky. 'But what shall we do?'
'Don't steal punks.
Stepan Arkadić laughed.
'O moralist!
But you understand, there are two women: one insists only on his rights, and these rights are your love, which you cannot give her; and the other sacrificeth you all, and demands nothing.
What do you want to do?
What should I do?
It's a terrible drama.
'If you want my confession about it, I'll tell you I don't believe there's a drama.
And that's why. I think love... both love that you remember -- Plato defines in his Pira, both love as a test stone for people.
Some people understand only one, others.
And those who understand only non-plonical love talk about drama in vain.
With such love, there can be no drama.
"Thank you very much for your pleasure, my honor," that's the drama.
And for platonic love, there can be no drama, because in such love everything is clear and clear, because...
At that moment Levin remembered his sins and the internal struggle he had endured. And he suddenly added:
'But maybe you're right.
It's very possible...
But I don't know, I don't know.
'You see,' said Stepan Arkadić, 'you are a very whole man.
It's your quality and your weakness.
You're the whole person, and you want your whole life to be made up of whole things, and that doesn't happen.
You despise public service because you want it to be consistent with its purpose, and it doesn't happen.
You want one person's activities to always have a purpose, love and family life to be the same. It doesn't happen.
All the diversity, all the beauty, all the beauty of life comes from the shadow and the light.
Levin sighed and answered nothing.
He thought of his own and did not listen to Oblonsky.
And suddenly they both felt that even though they were friends, even though they ate together and drank wine that would bring them even closer together, but that each thought was only his own, and that one did not care about the other.
Oblonsky has already experienced this afternoon's extreme bickering instead of getting closer and has known what to do in these cases.
'The bill! 'He screamed and went out to the next room, where he immediately met a friend of his, and entered into a conversation with him about the actress and her host.'
And immediately, in a conversation with Adjutant Oblonsky, he felt relieved and rested from talking to Levin, who always called him on too much mental and mental stress.
When the Tartarin showed up with twenty-six rubles of penny and a vodka supplement, Levin, who at another time as a villager would be horrified by his share of fourteen rubles, now ignored it, paid off, and went home to change and go to the Shcherbatskys, where his fate would be decided.
Princess Kitty Scherbatsky was 18 years old. She was leaving for the first winter.
Her success in the light was greater than both of her older sisters, and more than the Princess even expected.
Not only were the boys who danced at Moscow's balls almost all in love with Kitty, but two major parties appeared in the first winter: Levin and, immediately after his departure, Count Wronsky.
Levin's appearance at the beginning of winter, his frequent visits, and his apparent love for Kitty led to the first serious discussion between Kitty's parents about her future and disputes between the Prince and the Princess.
The Prince was on Levin's side, saying he didn't want anything better for Kitty.
The Princess, however, with a woman's habit of circumventing the question, said that Kitty was too young, that Levin showed nothing that had serious intentions, that Kitty had no affection for him, and that other arguments; but she did not say the main thing, that she was waiting for a better party for her daughter, and that Levin was unsatisfied with her, and that she did not understand him.
When Levin suddenly left, the Princess was happy and said to her husband, "You see, I was right."
She was even more pleased with her belief that Kitty should make not only a good but a brilliant party.
For the mother, there could be no comparison between Vronsky and Levin.
Her mother didn't like Levin and his strange and harsh judgment, and his awkwardness in the light, based on what she thought was pride, and his, by her definition, wild life in the village, with animal and man activities; he didn't like very much that he, in love with her daughter, drove into the house for a month and a half, something as if he was waiting, looking as if he was afraid, wouldn't be honored if he made an offer, and he didn't realize that going to the house where the bride's girlfriend had to explain himself. And suddenly, without explanation, he left.
"It's a good thing he's so unattractive that Kitty didn't fall in love with him," the mother thought.
Vronsky satisfied all of his mother's wishes.
Very rich, smart, well-known, on the way to a brilliant military career and a fascinating man.
You couldn't have wanted anything better.
He clearly looked after Kitty at the balls, danced with her, and went to the house, and there was no doubt about the seriousness of his intentions.
But despite that, the mother was in a state of anxiety and anxiety throughout the winter.
The Princess herself married 30 years ago, in the marriage of her aunt.
The bridegroom, all of which was well known, came, saw the bride, and saw him; the wife of the aunt recognized and gave a mutual impression; the impression was good; then, on the appointed day, the offer was made to the parents and accepted.
It was very easy and simple.
At least that's what the Princess thought.
But on her daughters, she experienced, as is not easy or simple as it seems to be ordinary, the matter is to marry daughters.
How many fears have survived, how many thoughts have changed, how much money has been spent, how many clashes with a husband in the marriage of the older two, Daria and Natalia!
Now, when the smaller ones were taken out, the same fears, the same doubts and even bigger than the older ones were fighting with their husband.
The old prince, like all fathers, was particularly sensitive about the honour and purity of his daughters; he was recklessly jealous of his daughters, especially Kitty, who was his favorite, and at every turn made scenes to the Princess for compromising her daughter.
The Princess was used to it with her first daughters, but now she felt that the Prince's sensitivity was more justified.
She had seen that much had changed in society recently, and that the responsibilities of the mother had become even more difficult.
She saw that Kitty's peers made up some kind of society, went to some kind of class, treated men freely, drove around the streets alone, many didn't sit down, and, above all, felt strongly that choosing a husband was their business, not their parents.
"You don't get married like you used to," thought and said all these young girls and all old people.
But now they're getting married, the Princess couldn't tell from anyone.
The French custom of parents deciding their children &apos; s fate was not accepted, condemned.
The English custom -- the girl &apos; s perfect freedom -- was also not accepted and impossible in Russian society.
The Russian custom of mating was seen as something ugly, laughed at, all and the Princess herself.
But no one knew how to get married.
Everyone with whom the Princess has interpreted this has said to her one thing: "Please, it is time to leave this old man alone these days.
As for the young, it is not for their parents that they should marry, and it is necessary that they should leave them as they know.'
But it was good to say so to those who did not have daughters; and the Princess knew that when she was near, the daughter could fall in love, and fall in love with someone who did not want to marry, or with someone who was not fit for marriage.
And no matter how much the Princess was told that in modern times young people had to set their own destiny, she could not believe it, nor could she believe that, at any time, the best toys for five-year-olds should be loaded pistols.
And that's why the Princess was more concerned with Kitty than with her older daughters.
From now on, she was afraid that Wronsky wouldn't just take care of her daughter.
She saw that her daughter was already in love with him, but comforted herself that he was an honest man and would not do so.
At the same time, however, she knew how with the current freedom of treatment it was easy to spin a girl's head and how easy men were to look at that guilt.
Kitty told her mother last week when she was talking to Vronski.
This conversation calmed the Princess in part; but she could not be completely calm.
Naomi told Kitty that they, both brothers, were so used to being obedient to their mother that they would never decide to do anything important without consulting her.
"And now I am waiting for my mother's arrival from Petersburg as a special happiness," he said.
Kitty said that without giving any meaning to those words.
But that's not what my mother understood.
She knew that the old woman was waiting from day to day, knew that the old woman would be happy to choose her son, and she was surprised that he was afraid to insult his mother and did not propose; however, she wanted to marry herself and, above all, to calm her fears that she had believed it.
As bitter as it was now for the Princess to see the misfortune of Dolly's eldest daughter, who was about to leave her husband, the worry about the fate of her little daughter absorbed all her feelings.
The current day, with Levin's appearance, added to her concern.
She feared that her daughter, who seemed at one time to have a feeling for Levin, out of excessive honesty, would not have refused Wronski, and that Levin &apos; s arrival would not be confused at all, &quot; did not delay a matter so close to the end.
'What is he, how long has he been here?' 'The Princess said of Levin when they returned home.'
'Now, maman.
'I just want to say,' the Princess began, and Kitty guessed what she was talking about.
'Mom,' she said, when she flashed and turned to her quickly, 'please, please don't say anything about it.
I know, I know.
She wanted what her mother wanted, but her mother's motives insulted her.
'I just want to say that by giving hope to one...
'Mommy, sweetheart, for God's sake, don't tell me.
It's so scary to talk about.
'I will not, I will not,' said the mother, when she saw tears in front of her daughter, 'but one thing, my soul, you promised me that you would have no secret from me. Not gonna happen?
'Never, Mother, no one,' replied Kitty, blushing and looking straight at her mother's face. 'But I have nothing to say now.' I... I... if I wanted to, I don't know what to say or how... I don't know...
"No, she can't tell the truth with those eyes," the mother thought, smiling at her excitement and happiness.
The Princess smiled at how huge and much she felt, the poor thing, what was happening in her soul now.
Kitty felt after lunch, and before the beginning of the evening, a feeling similar to that of the young man before the battle.
Her heart was beating hard, and she couldn't stop thinking.
She felt that this evening, when they both first met, must be decisive in her destiny. And she always imagined them, then each one apart, then together.
When she thought of her past, she was pleased, tenderly, to dwell on the memories of her relationship with Levin.
The memories of her childhood and of Levin's friendship with her dead brother gave her special poetic beauty to her relationship with him.
His love for her, which she was certain of, was flattering and joyful to her. And it was easy for her to remember Levin.
There was something embarrassing in his memory, though he was a highly secular and calm man; as if there was a lie -- not in him, he was very simple and sweet -- but in her herself, while with Levin she felt very simple and clear.
But as soon as she was thinking about the future with Wronski, the prospect was bright and happy; with Levin, the future seemed vague.
When she went upstairs to dress for the evening and looked in the mirror, she was happy to see that she was in one of her good days and full possession of all her strength, and that was what she needed for the coming: she felt the external silence and the free grace of the movements.
At half past eight, she just went to the living room, and the footman reported, "Constantin Dmitrich Levin."
The Princess was still in her room, and the Prince did not leave.
"It is," thought Kitty, and all the blood poured into her heart.
She was horrified by her paleness, looking in the mirror.
Now she knew correctly that he had come earlier to find her alone and propose.
And it was only the first time that the whole thing appeared to her on a completely different side, a new side.
She was the only one who realized that the question wasn't about her alone -- who she'd be happy with and who she loved -- but that right now she had to insult the person she loved. And insult me cruelly...
For what?
Because he, sweetheart, loves her, is in love with her.
But there's nothing to do, it's to be done, it's to be done.
"Oh, my God, am I supposed to tell him myself? 'She thought.' 'What shall I tell him?
Am I gonna tell him I don't love him?
That wouldn't be true.
What am I gonna tell him?
I'll tell you I love someone else?
No, that's impossible.
I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go."
She was already approaching the door when she heard his footsteps.
"No, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's not fair.
What should I be afraid of?
I didn't do anything wrong.
What's gonna happen is what's gonna happen! I'll tell you the truth.
It can't be awkward with him.
'Here he is!' she said to herself, seeing all his strong and shy figure with shiny, glittering eyes.
She looked directly into his face, as if begging him for mercy, and gave her hand.
'I think it's too early in time,' he said, looking around the empty living room.
When he saw that his expectations had come true, that nothing prevented him from speaking, his face turned dark.
'No,' said Kitty, and sat down to the table.
'But all I wanted was to catch you alone,' he began, neither sitting down nor looking at her, so as not to lose his courage.
'Mommy will be right out.
She was very tired yesterday. Yesterday...
She spoke, not knowing what her lips were saying, and not letting him down with a begging and caressing look...
He looked at her, and she was blushing and silent.
'I told you that I don't know if I've been here long... that it's up to you...
She bowed her head down and down, not knowing herself that she would respond to the approaching one.
'It depends on you,' he repeated. 'I mean... I mean...
I came here to be my wife! he said, without knowing what he was saying; but when he felt that the worst thing was said, he stopped and looked at her.
She was breathing hard without looking at him.
She was excited.
Her soul was full of happiness.
She did not expect his love to impress her so much.
But it only lasted for one moment.
She remembered Wronsky. She looked up at Levin with her bright, true eyes and, when she saw his desperate face, answered in haste:
'It can't be... Forgive me...'
Like a minute ago, she was close to him, how important to his life!
And now she's a stranger and a stranger to him!
'It could not have been otherwise,' he said, without looking at her. He bowed and wanted to leave...
But that's when the Princess came out.
Her face looked awful when she saw them alone and their decomposed faces.
Levin bowed to her and said nothing.
Kitty kept her eyes shut.
"Thank God she refused," the mother thought, and her face shined with a simple smile with which she met her guests on Thursdays.
She sat down and began to question Levin about his life in the village.
He sat down again, waiting for the guests to come to leave without being seen.
Five minutes later, Kitty's friend came in, married last winter, Countess Nordston.
It was a dry, yellow, black, shiny-eyed, painful and nervous woman.
She loved Kitty, and her love for her, like always the love of married girls, was expressed in her desire to marry Kitty by virtue of her ideal of happiness, so she wanted to marry him.
Levin, whom she often met at the beginning of winter, was always displeased with her.
Her constant and favorite activity in meeting him was to make fun of him.
'I love it when he looks at me from the height of his majesty: either he stops his clever conversation with me because I am foolish, or he forgives me.'
I love it so much, it's condescending to me!
I'm very glad he hates me,' she said about him.
She was right because Levin really couldn't stand her and despised her for what she was proud of and for what she had done for herself -- for her nervousness, for her subtle contempt and indifference to all rude and lifelike things.
Nordston and Levin were often treated in the light of the fact that two people, by appearance in friendly relationships, despise each other to such an extent that they could not even seriously--but treat each other and cannot even be insulted by one another.
Countess Nordston immediately attacked Levin.
'Ah! Constantin Dmitrich!
She came to our depraved Babylon again,' she said, giving him a tiny yellow hand and remembering his words one day at the beginning of winter that Moscow was Babylon. 'What, did Babylon change or did you fail?' 'She added, laughing at Kitty.
'I am very flattered, Countess, that you remember my words so much,' answered Levin, who was able to recover, and now, as a matter of habit, entered into his hilarious attitude toward Countess Nordston. 'That's right, they're working very hard on you.
'Oh, my God! I'm recording everything.
So, Kitty, did you skate again?
And she started talking to Kitty.
As embarrassing as it was for Levin to leave now, it was easier for him to do this awkward thing than to stay all night and see Kitty, who occasionally looked at him and avoided his eyes.
He wanted to get up, but the Princess, when she noticed that he was silent, turned to him:
'How long have you come to Moscow?'
You seem to be doing the world's work, and you can't do it for long.
'No, Princess, I don't do land anymore,' he said. 'I came for a few days.
'Something special with him,' thought Countess Nordston, looking into his strict, serious face,'something he does not engage in his reasoning.
But I'll get him out. I love to make a fool of him in front of Kitty, and I will."
'Constantin Dmitrich,' she said to him, 'tell me what it means, please, 'you all know that,' we have all the men and all the women in the village of Calugian who drank what they had, and now they're not paying us anything.
What does that mean?
You always praise men.
At that time, the lady entered the room, and Levin stood up.
'Excuse me, Countess, but I don't really know any of this, nor can I tell you anything,' he said, and looked back at the woman of the military who came in after him.
"It's got to be Wronsky," thought Levin, and to make sure, he looked at Kitty.
She had time to take a look at Vronsky and looked back at Levin.
And by one look, Levin's involuntarily shining eyes realized that she loved this man, and he understood as well as if she had told him that in words.
But what kind of person is that?
Now, if it was good or bad, Levin couldn't help but stay, he needed to know what kind of person she loved.
There are people who, when they meet their happy rival in whatever way, are ready to turn away from all the good things that are in him and see one bad thing in him; there are people who, on the contrary, are most willing to find in this happy rival the qualities by which he has defeated them and seek in him with a stinging pain in the heart of one good thing.
Levin belonged to such people.
But it wasn't difficult for him to find the good and the attractive in Vronsk.
It threw itself into his eyes.
There was a small, dense brunette, with a good-hearted, beautiful, extremely calm, and firm face.
In his face and figure, from short cut black hair and freshly shaved chin to wide from the needle of a new uniform, everything was simple and graceful together.
On the way to the lady who came in, he went to the Princess and then to Kitty.
As he approached her, his beautiful eyes were particularly glittering, and with a little bit of a happy and humble smile (so it seemed to Levin), respectfully and carefully leaning over her, he reached out to her with his small but wide hand.
When he said hello to everyone and said a few words, he sat down without ever looking down at Levin.
'Let me introduce you,' said the Princess, pointing to Levin. 'Constantin Dmitrich Levin. Count Alexey Kirillovich Wronsky.
He stood up and, looking friendlyly into Levin's eyes, shook his hand.
'I thought I was supposed to have lunch with you this winter,' he said, smiling with his simple and open smile, 'but you suddenly left for the village.
'Constantin Dmitrich despises and hates the city and us, citizens,' said Countess Nordston.
'My words must have a strong effect on you that you remember them so much,' said Levin, and remembering that he had said it before, he blushed.
He looked at Levin and Countess Nordston and smiled.
'Are you always in the village?' 'He asked.' 'I think it's boring in winter?'
'It is not boring to have classes or to be bored with yourself,' Levin replied sharply.
'I love the village,' he said, observing and pretending that he did not notice Levin's tone.
'But I hope the Count would not agree to live forever in the village,' said Countess Nordston.
'I don't know, I haven't tried much.'
I felt a strange feeling,' he continued. 'I have never missed a village, a Russian village, with lapts and men as much as I have lived with my mother in the winter in Nice.
Nice is boring on her own, you know.
And Naples, Sorrento's only good for a short time. And that's where Russia is particularly vividly remembered, and it's the village...
They're just like...
He spoke to Kitty and Levin, and turned his calm and friendly look from one to another," he said, obviously, what came to mind.
Noticed that Countess Nordston wanted to say something, he stopped. and listened carefully to her.
The conversation did not stop for a moment, so that the old princess, who always had a reserve, in the event of a lack of a subject, two heavy weapons: classical and real education and common military service, did not have to put them forward, and Countess Nordston did not have to mock Levin.
Levin wanted and could not enter into a general conversation; every minute he said to himself, "Now leave", he did not leave, waiting for something.
The conversation came about spinning tables and spirits, and Countess Nordston, who believed in spiritism, began to tell the miracles she had seen.
'Oh, Countess, take me to them, for God's sake!
I've never seen anything extraordinary, though I look everywhere,' said Vronsky, smiling.
'All right, next Saturday,' answered Countess Nordston. 'But you, Constantin Dmitrich, believe? 'She asked Levin.'
'Why are you asking me?
You know what I'm gonna say.
'But I want your opinion.'
'My only opinion is,' answered Levin, 'that these spinning tables prove that the so-called educated society is no higher than men.
They believe in the eye, in the mess, and in the doorsteps, and we...
'Well, you don't believe it?
'I can't believe it, Countess.
'But if I saw it myself?'
'And the women tell us how they saw the houses themselves.'
'So you think I'm lying? And she wasn't laughing funny.
'No, Masha, Konstantin Dmitrich says he can't believe it,' said Kitty, blushing for Levin, and Levin understood it and, even more annoyingly, wanted to answer it, but Vronsky, with his open, fun smile, now came to the aid of a conversation threatening to become unpleasant.
'Do you not allow opportunity at all?' 'He asked.' 'Why not?'
We allow the existence of electricity that we don't know; why there can't be a new power that we don't know yet, which...
'When the electricity was found,' quickly interrupted Levin, 'it was only a public phenomenon, and it was unknown where it came from and what it produced, and centuries passed before they thought of its application.
The spirits, on the other hand, began by writing tables to them, and the spirits came to them, and then began to say that it was the power of the unknown.
He listened carefully, as he had always listened, with obvious interest in his words.
'Yes, but the spirits say: Now we don't know what force it is, but there is power, and that's how it works.
And let the scientists reveal what that power is.
No, I can't see why it can't be a new force if it's...
'And so,' interrupted Levin, 'that every time you rub your tar on wool, there is a known phenomenon, not every time it's not natural.
Perhaps when he felt that the conversation was too serious for the living room, he did not object but, in an effort to change the subject of the conversation, smiled and turned to the ladies.
'Let's try now, Countess,' he began, but Levin wanted to prove what he thought.
'I think,' he continued, 'that this attempt by spirits to explain their miracles by some new force was the worst.
They speak directly about the power of the spirits and want to put her through material experience.
Everyone was waiting for him to finish, and he felt it.
'And I think you'll make a great psychic,' said Countess Nordston, 'there's something exciting about you.
Levin opened his mouth, wanted to say something, blushed and said nothing.
'Let us now, Princess, test the tables, please,' said Wronsky. 'The Princess, will you allow me?' And Vronsky stood up looking for a table with his eyes.
Kitty stood at the table and, passing by, met Levin with her eyes.
She felt sorry for him with all her soul, especially since she felt sorry for him in the misery that she was the cause of.
"If I can be forgiven, I am sorry," said her look, "I am so happy."
"I hate everyone, and I hate you and myself," answered his eyes, and he took his hat.
But it wasn't his destiny to leave.
They just wanted to settle at the table, and Levin left, as the old prince came in and said hello to the ladies, and turned to Levin.
'Ah!' he began to rejoice. 'How long has it been?'
I didn't know you were here.
It's really good to see you.
The old prince sometimes "you", sometimes "you" told Levin. He hugged Levin and, speaking to him, did not notice him, who stood up and waited calmly for the prince to return to him.
Kitty felt that after what had happened, his father's courtesy was hard for Levin.
She also saw how cold her father was, at last, responding to the Bronski bow, and how he looked at her father with a friendly perplexity, trying to understand and not understand how and for what it was possible to be unfriendly to him, and she turned red.
'Prince, release Constantin Dmitrich to us,' said Countess Nordston. 'We want to do experience.
'What experience? Twisting tables?
Well, if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I think it's more fun to play in the ring,' said the old prince, looking at Vronsky and guessing that he was up to it. 'There's still a point in the ring.
He looked with surprise at the Prince with his firm eyes and, as he smiled, immediately spoke to Countess Nordston about next week's big ball.
'I hope you will?' 'He turned to Kitty.
As soon as the old prince turned his back on him, Levin undetected himself, and the last impression he had given from this evening was the smiling, happy face of Kitty, who answered his question about the ball.
When the evening was over, Kitty told her mother about her conversation with Levin, and despite all the pity she felt for Levin, she was pleased that an offer had been made to her.
She had no doubt that she did the right thing. But she couldn't sleep in bed for long.
One impression haunted her irresistiblely.
It was Levin's face, with his eyebrows stuffed, and sombre-dreaming, looking under them with good eyes, as he stood, listening to his father, and looking at her, and at Wronsky. And she felt so sorry for him that tears turned on her eyes.
But immediately she thought about who she traded him for.
She reminiscently remembered this courageous, firm face, this noble calm and radiant kindness to all; she remembered the love for herself of someone she loved, and she was happy again in her soul, and with a smile of happiness she lay on a pillow. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but what can I do?
It was not my fault,' she said to herself; but the inner voice said otherwise to her. Whether she regretted that Levin was attracted or that she refused, she did not know.
But her happiness was poisoned by doubt. "My Lord, have mercy, my Lord, have mercy." 'She spoke of herself when she fell asleep.'
At that time, in the Prince's small office, there was one of the often repeated scenes between parents for their beloved daughter.
'What?
That's it! The prince screamed, waving his hands and immediately smelling his blushing robe. 'The fact that you have no pride, no dignity, that you are ashamed, destroys your daughter with this hoarding, sneaky, stupid!
'Oh, have mercy, for God's sake, Prince, what have I done? 'The Princess said, almost crying.'
She, happy, happy after talking to her daughter, came to the Prince to say goodbye by custom, although she did not intend to tell him about Levin's offer and Kitty's refusal, but she hinted to her husband that she felt that she was over with him, that it would decide as soon as his mother arrived.
And then, to those words, the prince suddenly burst into flames and started screaming indecent words.
'What have you done?'
First of all, you lure the groom, and all of Moscow will speak, and it's reasonable.
If you're making evenings, call everyone, not the chosen bridesmaids.
Call all these titties (so the prince called Moscow's young men), call the taper, let them dance, not the way they are today, the bridegroom, and take them down.
It's disgusting, it's disgusting, and you've done it, and you've dangled the girl's head.
Levin is a thousand times better man.
And this is a peterburg frantic, they're made in a car, they're all on the same page, and they're all crap.
Even if he's a prince of blood, my daughter doesn't need anyone!
'What have I done?'
'Or...' cried the prince with anger.
'I know that if I listen to you,' the Princess interrupted, 'we will never give our daughter up. If that's the case, we have to go to the village...
'And it is better to leave.'
'Wait.
Am I looking for it?
I'm not looking for anything. And a young man, and a very good man, fell in love, and she seems...
'Yes, you think!
How does she really fall in love and he thinks he's getting married like I am?
Ooh! Don't look at my eyes!
"Ah, spiritism, ah, Nice, ah, at the ball..." And the prince, imagining that he represented his wife, sat on every word. 'This is how we do Katenki's misery, how it will really get into her head...'
'Why do you think?'
'I don't think, but I do; we have eyes for it, not for women.'
I see a man who has intent to be serious, it's Levin; and I see a quail like this lycopper who only has fun.
'Well, you'll take it into your head...'
'But remember, lately, as with Duschenka.'
'Well, well, well, let's not speak,' stopped his princess, remembering the unfortunate Dolly...
'And goodbye and goodbye!
And when they crossed each other and kissed each other, but felt that each one had remained in his mind, the couple separated.
The Princess was first firmly convinced that this evening had decided on Kitty's fate and that there could be no doubt about the intentions of Vronski; but her husband's words confused her. And when she returned to herself, she, just like Kitty, with horror in front of the unknown future, repeated several times in her heart, "Lord, have mercy, Lord, have mercy, Lord, have mercy."
Vronsky never knew family life.
His mother was a brilliant, secular woman when she was married, and especially after, many novels known to the world.
He had little memory of his father and was raised in the Paže Corps.
As a very young brilliant officer from the school, he immediately fell into the ranks of the rich Peterburg military.
Although he used to go to Peterburg light on occasion, all his love interests were out of the world.
In Moscow, for the first time, he experienced, after a luxurious and rude Peterburg life, the beauty of drawing close to a lightly sweet and innocent girl who fell in love with him.
It never occurred to him to have anything wrong with his relationship with Kitty.
At the balls, he danced the prelim-- tangiblely with her; he went to their house.
He spoke to her what is usually said in light, all nonsense, but nonsense to which he inadvertently gave special meaning to her.
Even though he didn't say anything to her that he couldn't say in front of everyone, he felt that she was becoming more and more dependent on him, and the more he felt it, the more pleasant it was for him and his feelings for her became more tender.
He did not know that his way of dealing with Kitty had a certain name, that it was a lured young lady without intent to marry, and that it was a lure that was one of the bad things that was common among brilliant young men like him.
He thought he was the first to discover this pleasure, and he enjoyed his discovery.
If he could hear what her parents said this evening, if he could move to the family's point of view and find out that Kitty would be unhappy if he didn't marry her, he would be very surprised and wouldn't believe it.
He could not believe that what had given him such great and good pleasure, and most important of all, could have been bad.
Even less, he could have believed that he had to get married.
Marrying him was never an opportunity.
Not only did he not like family life, but in the family, and especially in the husband, according to the common view of the bachelor world in which he lived, he imagined something alien, hostile, and more and more funny.
But although he had no idea what his parents were saying, when he came out this evening from the Shcherbatskys, he felt that the spiritual secret bond that existed between him and Kitty had been established this evening so strong that something had to be done, but what could and should have been done, he could not have come up with.
'And adorable,' he thought, coming back from the Shcherbatskys and coming out of them, as always, a pleasant sense of purity and freshness, which took place in part and because he had not smoked a whole evening, and together a new sense of condescension before her for love, 'it was also adorable that nothing was said by me or her, but we so understood each other in this invisible conversation of views and tone, which is clearer today than ever, she told me that she loved me. And how sweet, simple and, above all, trusting!
I feel better myself, cleaner.
I feel like I have a heart and I have a lot of good in me.
These lovely eyes! When she said, "And very..."
"Well, then?
That's okay.
I feel good, and she's okay, and he's thinking about where he's gonna end up tonight.
He was imagining a place where he could go.
"The club? A lot of beef, champagne with Ignatov?
No, I won't.
Chateau de fleurs, will you find Oblonsky, verse, cancan?
No, I'm tired.
That's why I love the Scherbatskys, which I do better myself.
I'm going home."
He walked right into his room at Dusso's, told him to serve himself dinner, and then, when he undressed, he put his head on the pillow, fell asleep with a strong and calm sleep, as always.
On the other day, at 11 a.m., Wronsky went to the Petersburg Railway station to meet his mother, and the first person on the steps of the big ladder was Oblonski, who was waiting with the same train for his sister.
'Ah! Your ladyship!--Screaming of Oblonsky. 'Who are you after?
'I am after my mother,' smiled, as did all those who met with Oblonski, replied, 'by shaking his hand, and went up the stairs with him. 'She's supposed to be from Petersburg by now.
'And I waited for you until two o'clock. Where did you go from the Scherbatskys?
'Dome,' replied Wronsky. 'I confess, I was so pleased yesterday after the Shcherbatskys that I didn't want to go anywhere.'
'I recognize the horses of revulsion by some of their tavres, and I recognize the young men of love by their eyes,' said Stepan Arkadić in the same way as Levin before.
He smiled with such a view that he did not renounce it, but immediately changed the conversation. 'And who do you meet?' 'He asked.'
'I am? "I am a beautiful woman," said Oblonsky,
'That's it!
'Honnie soit qui mal y pense!
Sister Anna.
'Ah, is that Karenina? 'Vronsky said.'
'You know her, don't you?
'I think I do.
Or not...
Right, I don't remember, &quot; Wronsky answered in a scattered manner, with a vague view of Karenina &apos; s name of something poignant and boring.
'But Alexei Alexandrovich, my famous son-in-law, you know.
The whole world knows him.
'I mean, I know by reputation and appearance.'
I know he's smart, a scientist, a divine something... but you know, it's not in my... no in my line,' said Wronsky.
'Yes, he is a very wonderful man; a little conservative, but a good man,' observed Stepan Arkadić, a good man.
'Well, all the better for him,' he said, smiling. 'Ah, you are here,' he turned to his mother's tall old footman standing by the door, 'come in here.
In addition to the common pleasure of Stepan Arkadyić, he had recently felt attached to him by the fact that he had, in his imagination, joined Kitty.
'Well, shall we make dinner for the diva on Sunday?' 'He said to him, taking him under his arm with a smile.'
'Absolutely. I'll get a subscription.
Oh, did you meet my buddy Levin yesterday? 'Stepan Arkadić asked.'
'Of course.
But he left soon enough.
'He is a good fellow,' continued Oblonsky. 'Isn't that right?
'I don't know,' he replied, 'and why it's in all the Moscows, of course excluding those I'm talking to,' he jokingly inserted, 'there's something sharp.
It's like they're all feeling like they're getting angry, like they're all trying to make you feel something...
'There is indeed...' said Stepan Arkadych, laughing funly.
'What, is it soon?' 'Vronsky turned to the servant.'
'The train has come out,' answered the minister.
The train &apos; s approach was increasingly marked by the movement of preparations at the station, the running of artists, the appearance of gendarmes and employees and the approach of visitors.
Through the cold steam, the workers were seen in the semi-shoes, in the soft lazy boots, crossing the tracks of the folding tracks. I heard the whistle on the long rails and the movement of something heavy.
'No,' said Stepan Arkadić, who was very eager to tellVronski of Levin's intentions regarding Kitty. 'No, you misjudged my Levin.
He's a very nervous man and he can be nasty, really, but sometimes he can be very nice.
It's such an honest, honest nature, and it's a heart of gold.
But yesterday there were special reasons, &quot; Stepan Arkadić continued with a great smile, completely forgetting the sincere sympathy he had for his friend yesterday, and now having the same feeling for his friend, only for Vronski. 'Yes, there was a reason why he was either particularly happy or especially unhappy,
Wronsky stopped and asked directly:
'I mean, what is it?'
Or did he propose to your belle soeur yesterday?
'Maybe,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'I thought it was yesterday.
Yeah, if he left early and wasn't in the mood, it's so...
He's been in love for so long, and I'm sorry for him.
'That's right! '
I think, however, that she can count on a better match,' said Wronsky, and, having straightened his chest, began to walk again. 'I don't know him, though,' he added. 'Yes, it is a difficult situation!
That's what most people prefer to know about the Claras.
There's only proof of failure that you're short of money, and here you're worth your weight.
But here's the train.
It is true that a steam train has whistled far away. A few minutes later, the platform trembled and, snorting down from the frost of the ferry, rode a steamer with a slow and measured and stretchable middle wheel lever and a bowing, tied, indeterminate driver; and behind the tender, a slower and more stunning platform, a van with luggage and a scalding dog took off; finally, the passenger cars approached before the stop.
A youthful conductor, while whistled, jumped off and followed by one impatient passenger: a guard officer, keeping his eyes straight and tight; a spinning merchant with a bag, smiling with fun; a man with a bag over his shoulder.
While standing next to Oblonski, he looked around the cars and went out and completely forgot about his mother.
What he just found out about Kitty turned him on and excited.
His chest was straightened out, and his eyes glittered. He felt like a winner.
'The Countess of Wronsky is in this section,' said the youthful conductor, approaching Wronsky.
The conductor's words woke him up and made him remember his mother and the upcoming date with her.
He did not respect his mother in his soul, nor did he love her in that account, even though he could not imagine others in the circle in which he was rearing his mother as being highly obedient and respectful, and all the more so outwardly obedient and respectful, the less in his heart he respected and loved her.
He followed the conductor to the car and stopped at the entrance to the station to give way to the lady who was leaving.
With the usual tact of a secular man, one view of the lady's appearance, Wronsky identified her as a member of the highest light.
He apologized and went into the car, but felt the need to take another look at her -- not because she was very beautiful, not because of the grace and modest grace that were visible in her whole body, but because in the expression of a nice-looking face when she passed him, there was something particularly gentle and tender.
When he looked back, she turned her head, too.
Brilliant, seeming dark from thick eyelashes, gray eyes friendlyly, paused on his face, as if she had acknowledged him, and immediately moved to a suitable crowd, looking for someone.
In this brief look, Wronsky was able to see the restraint that was playing in her face and ploughing between her shiny eyes and a slightly visible smile, twisting her brimming lips.
It was as if the abundance of something was so full of her being that, past her will, it was in the glitter of eyes and smiles.
She deliberately put out the light in her eyes, but it glowed against her will in a slightly visible smile.
Vronsky entered the car.
His mother, a dry old lady with black eyes and bouquets, stared at her son and smiled a little bit with thin lips.
On her way up from the couch and handing over the maid's bag, she served a small, dry hand to her son and, raising his head from her hand, kissed him in the face.
'Did you get the telegram?
Hello?
Thank God.
'Have a good trip?' 'The son said, sitting beside her, listening involuntarily to a woman's voice from behind the door.
He knew it was the voice of the lady who met him at the entrance.
'I still disagree with you,' said the lady's voice.
&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &
'It's not Peterburg, it's just a woman's,' she replied.
'Well, let me kiss your pen.'
'Goodbye, Ivan Petrovich. See if my brother is here, and send him to me,' said the lady at the door, and entered the office again.
'Well, have you found your brother?' 'Vronsky said, turning to the lady.'
Vronsky remembers now that it was Karenina.
Your brother is here,' he said, getting up. 'Excuse me, I didn't recognize you, and our acquaintance was so brief,' he said, bowing, 'that you surely do not remember me.
'Oh, no,' she said, 'I would recognize you, 'because your mother and I seem to have talked all the way only about you,' she said, finally allowing the expansive rejuvenation to express itself in a smile. 'And yet my brother is not.'
'Call him, Alesha,' said the old Countess.
He went out to the platform and cried: 'Oblonsky!
Here!
But Karenina didn't wait for her brother, but when she saw him, she came out of the car with a determined light step.
And as soon as the brother came to her, she took her left hand by the neck by the move that struck him with her resolve and grace, and quickly drew her to her, and kissed her firmly.
He looked at her, without letting his eyes down, and, without knowing what, he smiled.
But when he remembered that his mother was waiting for him, he entered the car again.
'Isn't she very nice? 'Said the Countess of Karenna.' 'Her husband put me with him, and I was very happy.
We talked to her all the way through.
Well, you're said to be... vous filez le parfait amor.
Tant miux, mon cher, tan miux.
'I don't know what you're implying, maman,' the son answered with coldness. 'Well, maman, let's go.
Karenina entered the car again to say goodbye to the Countess.
'Well, Countess, you have met your son, and I am my brother,' she said fun. 'And all my stories were exhausted; there would be nothing further to tell.'
'Well, no,' said the Countess, taking her hand, 'I would go around the world with you and not miss you.
You're one of those nice women that's nice to talk to and be quiet about. 'And your son, please don't think that you can never be separated.'
Karenina stood still, sticking extremely straight, and her eyes smiled.
'Anna Arkadievna,' said the Countess, explaining to her son, 'there is an eight-year-old son, and she seems to have never been separated from him and is all tormented that she left him.
'Yes, we talked to the Countess all the time, I was talking about mine, she was talking about her son,' said Karenina, and again the smile lit up her face, the smile of affection for him.
'It must have made you very bored,' he said, now on the fly, picking up this flirty ball she threw at him.
But apparently she didn't want to keep talking in that tone and turned to the old Countess:
'Thank you very much.
I didn't see you last night.
Goodbye, Countess.
'Goodbye, my friend,' answered the Countess.
Let me kiss your pretty face.
I'm just saying I'm in love with you.
No matter what the cousin said, Karenina seemed to believe it from the bottom of her heart and rejoiced at it.
She blushed, leaned a little, laid her face on the Countess's lips, straightened again, and with the same smile, worried between her lips and her eyes, she handed out her hand to the Countess.
He shook his small hand and, as something special, he rejoiced at the energy shake with which she shook his hand firmly and bravely.
She went out on a quick walk, so weirdly wearing her pretty full body.
'Very nice,' said the old lady.
That's what her son thought.
He walked her eyes until her graceful figure ran away, and the smile stopped on his face.
Through the window, he saw her approach her brother, put her hand on his hand, and something lively began to tell him, apparently having nothing to do with him, and he found it annoying.
'Well, maman, are you completely healthy?' 'He repeated, turning to his mother.'
'It's okay, it's okay.
Alexandre was very nice. And Marie became very good.
She's very interesting.
Again, he began to talk about what she was most interested in, about the christenings of her grandson, for whom she went to Petersburg, and about the king's special kindness to her eldest son.
'Here comes Lavrentius,' he said, looking out the window, 'now let's go, if you will.
The old butler, who was travelling with the Countess, came to the carriage to report that everything was ready, and the Countess went up to go.
'Come on, there aren't many people now,' he said.
The girl took a bag and a dog, a butler and an artifact with other bags.
He took his mother under his arm; but when they had already come out of the car, suddenly a few men with frightened faces ran by.
And the station manager ran through in his extraordinary color hat.
Obviously, something extraordinary happened.
The people ran back from the train.
'What?
What?
Where?
Abandoned! It's squeezing! 'It was heard between those who passed away.'
Stepan Arkadić, with his sister under his arm, also with frightened faces, returned and stopped at the entrance of the wagon, avoiding the people.
The ladies came into the car, andcrow and Stepan Arkadyić went after the people to learn the details of the disaster.
The guard, whether he was drunk or too wrapped up in a severe cold, did not hear the rear-sliding train and was crushed.
Before Vronsky and Oblonsky returned, the ladies learned these details from the butler.
Oblonsky and Vronsky both saw a disfigured corpse.
Oblonsky must have suffered...
He wrinkled and seemed ready to cry.
'Oh, that's awful!
Ah, Anna, if you could see!
Oh, that's awful! 'He has condemned.'
He was silent, and his beautiful face was serious, but perfectly calm.
'Oh, if you could see, Countess,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'And his wife is here...'
It's terrible to see her...
She threw herself at the body.
They say he's the only one who's been feeding a huge family.
That's awful!
'Can't anything be done for her? 'Agitatedly whispered,' said Karenina.
He looked at her and immediately came out of the car.
'I'll be right there, maman,' he added, wrapping himself in the door.
When he returned a few minutes later, Stepan Arkadić had already spoken to the Countess about the new singer, and the Countess was impatiently looking back at the door waiting for her son.
'Now let's go,' said Wronsky, entering. They went out together.
Wronsky was ahead with his mother. Karenina was walking in the back with her brother.
At the exit, the station chief, who had caught up with him, arrived.
'You gave my assistant 200 rubles.
Would you care to indicate to whom you appoint them?
'Woman,' he said, shaking his shoulders. 'I don't know what to ask.
'Did you give it? 'Oblonsky screamed at the back and, holding his sister's hand, added: Very sweet, very sweet!
Isn't that right, sweet boy?
My respects, Countess. And he and his sister stopped looking for her girlfriend.
By the time they got out, the carriage of Vronski had already left.
Exiting people were still talking about what happened.
'This death is terrible!' said some gentleman, passing by. 'They say two pieces.
'I think, on the contrary, the easiest, the quickest,' noticed the other.
'Never will it take action,' said the third.
Karenna sat down in a carriage, and Stepan Arkadych was surprised to see her lips shiver and she had difficulty holding back her tears.
'What is the matter with you, Anna? 'He asked when they had moved away a few hundred seedlings.'
'A bad omen,' she said.
'What a trifle!' said Stepan Arkadych. 'You've come, that's all that matters.
You can't imagine how much I hope for you.
'How long have you known Vronski?' 'She asked.'
'Yes.
You know, we're hoping he'll marry Kitty.
'Yes? 'Silently said Anna. 'Well, let's talk about you now,' she added, shaking her head as if she wanted to physically drive away something unnecessary and interfered with her. 'Let's talk about your business...'
I got your letter and now I'm here.
'Yes, all hope is in you,' said Stepan Arkadić.
'Well, tell me everything.
And Stepan Arkadić started to tell.
Upon arriving at the house, Oblonsky dropped his sister off, sighed, shook her hand, and went to attend...
When Anna entered the room, Dolly sat in a small living room with a white-headed, swollen boy, now like her father, and listened to his French reading lesson.
The boy read, spinning his hand and trying to rip off a little button-held jacket.
The mother took her hand a few times, but the swollen pen went back to the button.
My mother ripped off the button and put it in her pocket.
'Calm your hands, Grisha,' she said, and again she took up her blanket, a long-standing job that she had always worked for in difficult times, and now she's knitting nervously, throwing her finger and counting loops.
Although she told her husband yesterday that she didn't care about his sister coming or not, she prepared everything for her visit and waited anxiously for her sister - in - law.
Dolly was killed by her grief, all absorbed by him.
However, she remembered that Anna, the sister-in-law, was the wife of one of the most important men in Petersburg and Peterburg's Grande dame.
And because of that, she failed to do what she said to her husband, that is, she did not forget that the sister - in - law was coming.
"Yeah, it wasn't Anna's fault at last," Dolly thought. 'I don't know anything about her but the best of things, and all I've ever seen about her is affection and friendship.'
True, as long as she could remember her impression in Petersburg at Karenni's, she didn't like their very home; something faked the entire warehouse of their family life.
"But why wouldn't I accept it?
I wish she wouldn't comfort me!' I thought Dolly. 'All comfort, and advice, and forgiveness are Christian -- all of this has changed my mind a thousand times, and none of this is good enough.'
All these days, Dolly was alone with the kids.
She didn't want to talk about her grief, and she couldn't talk about the outsider with that grief.
She knew that, in one way or another, she would speak to Anna, and she was encouraged by the thought of how she would speak, that she was angry at the need to speak about her humiliation with her, his sister, and to hear from her the words of instruction and comfort.
As often as she looked at her watch, she waited for her every minute and missed the exact one when the guest arrived, so she didn't hear the call.
When she heard the noise of the dress and the light steps at the door, she looked back, and her worn - out face came as a surprise, not joy.
She got up and hugged the sister-in-law.
'Are you here?' 'She said, kissing her.'
'Dollie, it's so good to see you!
'And I am glad,' said Dolly, smiling lightly and trying, by the look of Anna's face, to see if she knows, said.
'Right, she knows,' she thought, noting her condolences on Anna's face. 'Well, come on, I will take you to your room,' she continued, trying to delay as much an explanation as possible.
'Is that Grisha?
Oh, my God, how he grew up!' said Anna, and by kissing him, keeping an eye on Dolly, she stopped and blushed. 'No, let me not go anywhere.
She took off her handkerchief, her hat, and by sticking it to a string of her black, curly hair everywhere, waving her head off, she unhooked her hair.
'And you shine with happiness and health!' said Dolly almost jealously.
'I am?'
Yes,' said Anna. 'Oh, my God, Tanya!
"Serezha's age added to my age," she turned to the girl who had run away. She took her arms and kissed her. 'Beautiful girl, lovely!
Show me everyone.
She called them and remembered not only names, but years, months, patterns, diseases of all children, and Dolly couldn't help but appreciate it.
'Well, let's go to them,' she said. 'Vasa is sleeping now, sorry.'
After examining the children, they sat down, alone, in the living room, in front of coffee.
Anna took the tray and then moved it away.
'Dollie,' she said, 'he told me.
Dolly looked cold at Anna.
She's been waiting for fake-sympathetic phrases now, but Anna hasn't said anything like that.
'Dolly, sweetheart!' she said, 'I do not want to speak for him, nor to comfort you; that is not possible. But, sweetheart, I'm sorry, I feel sorry for you with all my soul!
The thick eyelashes of her shiny eyes suddenly caused tears to appear.
She moved closer to her sister - in - law and took her hand with her energyy little hand.
Dolly wasn't suspended, but her face didn't change her dry expression.
She said:
'You can't comfort me.
Everything's lost after what happened, everything's gone!
And as soon as she said it, the look on her face suddenly softened.
Anna raised Dolly's dry, thin hand, kissed her, and said,
'But, Dolly, what shall we do, what shall we do?'
What is the best way to deal with this terrible situation? 'This is what we need to think about.'
'It's over, and nothing more,' said Dolly. 'And the worst part is, you realize I can't leave him; children, I'm tied up.
I can't live with him. I can't see him.
'Dollie, my dear, he told me, but I want you to tell me everything.
Dolly looked at her question-and-answer.
Participation and love were unbelievable on Anna's face.
'Excuse me,' she said. 'But I will say it first.'
You know how I got married.
I wasn't only innocent with maman being raised, but I was stupid. I didn't know anything.
They say I know husbands tell their wives their old life, but Steve... 'She has recovered,' Stepan Arkadić said nothing to me.
You're not gonna believe this, but I still thought I was the one woman he knew.
That's how I lived for eight years.
You know, not only did I not suspect infidelity, but I thought it was impossible, and then, imagine, with such notions, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden...
You understand me.
To be sure of his happiness, and suddenly...' kept Dolly crying, 'and to receive a letter... his letter to his mistress, to my governess.
No, it's too horrible! 'She quickly took out her handkerchief and closed their face. 'I understand yet another passion,' she continued, silently, 'but thoughtfully, tricked to deceive me... with whom?'
To continue to be my husband with her... that's awful! You can't understand...
'Oh, no, I understand! I understand, dear Dolly, I understand,' said Anna, shaking her hand.
'And you think he understands the horror of my position?' 'Cause Dolly went on. 'Nothing!
He's happy and happy.
'Oh, no! 'Anna quickly interrupted. 'He's pathetic, he's killed with remorse...'
'Is he capable of repentance?' 'Cause she interrupted Dolly, staring at the face of the sister-in-law.
'Yes, I know him.
I couldn't look at him without pity.
We both know him.
He's kind, but he's proud, and now he's so humiliated.
The most important thing that touched me (and Anna guessed the most important thing that could have touched Dolly) was that he was tormented by two things: that he was ashamed of his children and that he loved you... yes, yes, that he loved you more than anything in the world. She quickly interrupted her desire to oppose Dolly,' hurt you, killed you.
"No, no, she won't forgive," he says.
Dolly carefully looked past the sister-in-law, listening to her words.
'Yes, I understand that his situation is terrible; the guilty is worse than the innocent,' she said, 'if he feels that his guilt is all misery.
But how can I forgive being his wife again after her?
I'm gonna have to live with him now because I love my past love for him...
And sobbing over her words,
But as if on purpose, every time she softened, she started talking about what annoyed her again.
'She is young because she is beautiful,' she continued. 'Do you understand, Anna, that I have my youth, my beauty is taken by whom?'
Him and his children.
I served him, and in this service all mine have gone, and now, of course, he's more comfortable with a fresh, naughty creature.
They did speak to each other about me, or even worse, they wouldn't say anything, 'You understand? 'Hate has set her eyes on fire again. 'And after that he will tell me...'
Well, am I gonna believe him?
Never.
No, it's over, everything that was comfort, the reward of labor, the torment...
Will you believe it? I've been teaching Grisha before, it's been a joy, now it's a torment.
Why am I trying, working?
Why the kids?
It's awful that suddenly my soul turned over, and instead of love, tenderness to him, I have only one anger, yes, anger.
I'd kill him and...
'Listen, Dolly, I understand, but don't torment yourself.
You're so insulted, so excited, you see a lot wrong.
Dolly's quiet, and they've been quiet for two minutes.
'What to do, think, Anna, help me.
I've changed my mind and I can't see anything.
Anna couldn't think of anything, but her heart responded directly to every word, every expression of the daughter-in-law's face.
'I will say one thing,' Anna began, 'I am his sister, I know his character, this ability to forget everything (she made a gesture in front of her forehead), this ability to be full of passion, but also full of remorse.
He doesn't believe, now he doesn't understand how he could do what he did.
'No, he understands, he understood!' interrupted Dolly. 'But I... you... forget me... am I relieved?'
'Wait.
When he told me, I confess to you, I didn't understand the horror of your position.
I saw only him and that the family was upset; I felt sorry for him, but when I spoke to you, I saw another woman, and I saw your suffering, and I couldn't tell you how sorry I felt for you!
But, Dolly, sweetheart, I understand your suffering quite well, only one thing I don't know: I don't know... I don't know how much more love there is in your soul for him.
It's you who knows if there's enough to be forgiven.
If there is, I'm sorry!
'No,' Dolly began; but Anna interrupted her, kissing her hand again.
'I know the light more than you,' she said. 'I know these people like Steve, how they look at it.
You're saying he talked to her about you.
That didn't happen.
These people are infidels, but their home and wife are sacred to them.
Somehow, these women remain in contempt and do not stand in the way of the family.
They make a line between family and this.
I don't get it, but I do.
'Yes, but he kissed her...'
'Dolly, wait, sweetheart.
I saw Steve when he was in love with you.
I remember that time when he came to me and cried about you, and what poetry and height you were to him, and I know that the more he lived with you, the higher you were to him.
Because we used to laugh at him, that he would add to every word, "Dollie is an amazing woman."
You've always been a god to him, and it's not his soul's passion...
'But if this passion happens again?'
'It cannot, as I understand it...'
'Yes, but would you forgive?'
'I don't know, I can't judge...'
No, I can,' said Anna, thinking; and when she understood the position and weighed it in the balance, she added: 'No, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can.
Yeah, I would.
I wouldn't be the same, yes, but I would, and I would forgive you as if it hadn't happened at all.
'Well, of course,' interrupted Dolly quickly, as if she had said what she had thought many times; otherwise it would not have been forgiveness.
If you're sorry, at all, at all.
Well, come on, I'll take you to your room,' she said, getting up, and on the way, Dolly hugged Anna. 'My dear, how glad I am that you have come.
I feel better, much better.
This Anna spent the whole day at home, that is, at Oblonsky's, and did not receive anyone, since some of her acquaintances came to know that she had arrived on the same day.
Anna spent the whole morning with Dolly and the kids. She just sent a note to her brother to make sure he had dinner at home.
"Come, God be merciful," she wrote.
Oblonsky had lunch at home; the conversation was in common, and his wife spoke to him, calling him "you", which had never happened before.
The husband &apos; s relationship with his wife remained the same isolation, but there was no longer any separation, and Stepan Arkadić saw the possibility of explanation and reconciliation.
Kitty arrived immediately after lunch.
She knew Anna Arkadyevna, but very little, and now she was on her way to her sister, not without fear, before being received by this peterburg social lady, who was so praised.
But Anna Arkadievna liked her,' she saw it now.
Anna apparently admired her beauty and youth, and before she knew how she already felt, not only under her influence, but in love with her, how young girls could fall in love with married and older women.
Anna was not like the lady of the world or the mother of an eight - year - old son, but rather she would be like a 20 - year - old girl with the flexibility of movement, freshness, and reanimation on her face, knocking that out of her smile, but for the serious, sometimes sad, expression of her eye, which struck and attracted Kitty.
Kitty felt that Anna was quite simple and had nothing to hide, but that there was another, higher world of interests beyond her reach, complex and poetic.
After lunch, when Dolly went out to her room, Anna quickly stood up and approached her brother, who smoked a cigar.
'Steve,' she said to him, winking at him, baptizing him and pointing her eyes at the door. 'Go, and help you God.'
He threw the cigar, understood it, and fled behind the door.
When Stepan Arkadić left, she returned to the couch, where she was sitting surrounded by children.
Whether the children saw that mom loved that aunt, or how they felt special about her, but the older two, and then the smaller ones, as they often do with the children, stuck to the new aunt before lunch and didn't walk away from her.
And between them was a kind of game worth sitting as close as possible next to her aunt, touching her, holding her little hand, kissing her, playing with her ring, or at least touching her dress.
'Well, as we used to sit,' said Anna Arkadievna, sitting in her seat.
And again, Grisha put his head under her arm and leaned his head against her dress and glowed with pride and happiness.
'So when's the ball now? 'She turned to Kitty.
'Next week, and a beautiful ball.'
One of those balls that always has fun.
'Are there any who always have fun?' 'And Anna said with tender ridicule.'
'It's weird, but there is.
The Bibles always have fun, the Nikitinis have fun, and the Bags are always boring.
Haven't you noticed?
'No, my soul, there are no balls for me that are fun,' said Anna, and Kitty saw in her eyes a special world that was not revealed to her. 'There are some for me that are less difficult and boring...'
'How can you be bored at the ball?'
'Why can't I be bored at the ball? 'Anna asked.'
Kitty noticed that Anna knew what the answer would be.
'Because you're always the best.
Anna had the ability to blush.
She blushed and said,
'First, never; second, if it were, why would I do that?
'Are you going to this ball?' 'Ask Kitty.
'I think we can't stop going.'
Here, take this,' she said, "Tane, who snatched the ring easily from her white, thin one at the end of her finger.
'I'd be very happy if you went -- I'd love to see you at the ball.'
'At least if I have to go, I will be content to think that it will please you...'
Grisha, please don't terebi, they've all been talking,' she said, correcting the broken piece of hair that Grisha was playing.
'I'm imagining you at the purple ball.'
'Why does it have to be in purple?' 'Smile,' asked Anna. 'Come on, children, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go.
Do you hear me?
Miss Gul calls for tea,' she said, removing the children and sending them to the dining room.
'And I know why you're calling me to prom.
You expect a lot from this ball, and you want everyone here to be involved.
'How do you know?
Yes.
'Oh! 'How good your time is,' continued Anna. 'I remember and know this blue fog, like the one on the mountains in Switzerland. This fog, which covers everything at a happy time when childhood is about to come to an end, and out of this huge circle, happy, hilarious, is taking the way all the time, and it's fun and creepy to enter this anphid, even though it seems bright and beautiful...
Who didn't get through this?
Kitty smiled silently.
"But how did she get through this?
'How I would like to know her whole novel,' thought Kitty, remembering the unethical appearance of Alexei Alexandrovich, her husband.
'I know something.
Steve told me, and congratulations to you, and I love him very much,' Anna continued,' I met him on the railroad.
'Ah, was he there? 'Inquired Kitty red.' 'What did Steve say to you?
'Steve told me everything. And I'd love to.
I was on my way yesterday with Wronsky's mother,' she continued,' and the mother kept telling me about him; this is her favorite; I know how partial mothers are, but...
'What did your mother tell you?
'Ah, many! And I know he's her favorite, but you can still see that he's a knight...
Well, for example, she told me that he wanted to give all his fortune to his brother, that he had done something extraordinary when he was a kid, saved the woman from the water.
In a word, hero,' said Anna, smiling and remembering the 200 rubles he had given at the station.
But she didn't tell me about those 200 rubles.
That's why she didn't like to think about it.
She felt that there was something about her before and something she shouldn't have.
'She asked me very much to go to her,' Anna continued, 'and I am pleased to see the old lady and I will go to her tomorrow.
However, thank God Steve stayed in Dolly's office for a long time,' added Anna, changing the conversation and getting up, as Kitty seemed to be disgruntled,
'No, I've done it before! No, I am! 'The children screamed, finishing their tea and running to Aunt Anne.'
'All together! 'Anna said, and, laughing, ran toward them and hugged them, and knocked down all that pile of squealing and groaning children....
Big Dolly came out of her room for tea.
Stepan Arkadić didn't come out.
He must have left his wife's room in reverse.
'I'm afraid you'll be cold upstairs,' observed Dolly, turning to Anna, 'I want to move you down, and we'll be closer.
'Oh, please don't take care of me,' replied Anna, looking into Dolly's face and trying to understand whether there was reconciliation or not.
'It will be bright for you here,' the sister-in-law replied.
'I tell you, I sleep everywhere and always like a bitch.
'What is it about? 'Stepan Arkadić asked, leaving his office and turning to his wife.'
By tone, he and Kitty and Anna now realized that reconciliation had taken place.
'I want to transfer Anna downstairs, but we need to move the wardrobes.
No one will be able to do it themselves,' answered Dolly, turning to him.
"Does God know if they've made up?" 'I thought Anna, hearing her tone, cold and calm.'
'Ah, full, Dolly, making things difficult,' said the husband. 'Well, you want me to do it...'
"Yes, they must have made up," Anna thought.
'I know how you're gonna do it,' answered Dolly, 'you'll tell Matthew to do what you can't do and you'll leave and he'll mess it up,' and the usual funny smile wrinkled the ends of Dolly's lips when she said it.
"A full, complete reconciliation, full of peace," Anna thought, "Thank God!" 'and glad that she was the cause of it, she went up to Dolly and kissed her.
'No, why do you despise Matway and me so much? 'Stepan Arkadić said, smiling a bit and turning to his wife.'
All night, as always, Dolly was a little funny to her husband, and Stepan Arkadych was happy and happy, but enough to show that he had forgotten his guilt when he was forgiven.
At half-tenth, a particularly happy and pleasant evening family conversation at Oblonsky's tea table was broken by the most seemingly simple event, but this simple event somehow seemed strange to everyone.
After talking about common peterburger acquaintances, Anna quickly got up.
'I have it in my album,' she said, 'and by the way, I will show my Serezha,' she added with a proud motherly smile.
By ten o'clock, when she used to say goodbye to her son and often herself, before going to the ball, put him down, she felt sad that she was so far away from him; and whatever she was talking about, she had no, no, and returned to her curly Serezha.
She wanted to look at his card and talk about him.
Using the first pretext, she stood up with her light, determined walk after the album.
The ladder upstairs, into her room, went out to the site of a large, warm entrance staircase.
While she was leaving the living room, there was a bell in the front.
'Who could it be?' 'Yes,' said Dolly.
'It's too early for me, and it's too late for anyone else,' Kitty noticed.
'That's right, with the papers,' added Stepan Arkadych, and when Anna passed the stairs, the servant went upstairs to report him, and he himself stood by the lamp.
Anna looked down and immediately learned the strange sense of pleasure and the fear of something suddenly moved into her heart.
He stood by without taking his coat off, and he pulled something out of his pocket.
The minute she was leveled off the middle ladder, he looked up, saw her, and in the expression of his face something embarrassed and scared became.
When she leaned her head a little, she was followed by the loud voice of Stepan Arkadyich, who called him in, and the nimble, gentle and calm voice of him who refused.
When Anna came back with the album, he was gone, and Stepan Arkadić told me that he was coming to see about the dinner they gave the visiting celebrity tomorrow. 'And never wanted to come in.'
He's kind of weird,' added Stepan Arkadych.
Kitty's blushing.
She thought she was the only one who understood why he came and didn't come in.
"He was with us," she thought, "and she didn't catch me and thought I was here; but he didn't come in, because he thought it was late, and Anna was here."
Everyone looked around, didn't say anything, and started watching Anna's album.
There was nothing unusual or strange about a man stopping by a friend at half-tenth to know the details of the dinner and not coming in, but it seemed strange to all of us.
More strange and bad than anyone, it seemed to Anna.
The ball just started when Kitty and her mother walked into a big, flowered and varnished stairwell in pudding and red caftans.
There was a streak of motion that stood in them like a hive, and while they were on the floor between the trees, they were walking in front of the mirror of their hair and dresses, they heard from the hall the violins of the orchestra, which began the first waltz.
A civilian old man who adjusted his gray hangings from another mirror, pouring a scent of perfume out of himself, ran into them on the stairs and turned aside, apparently admiring Kitty, whom he did not know.
A benevolent young man, one of those secular young men whom the old prince of Shcherbatsky called titties, in an extremely open vest, wearing a white tie, bowed to them and, running by them, returned, inviting Kitty to the frame.
The first shot was given to Vronsky, and she was supposed to give that young man a second.
A military man shoved his glove away from the door and petting his mustache and staring at Kitty's pink.
Despite the fact that the toilet, the hair and all the prom preparations cost Kitty a lot of work and thought, she now, in her complicated tulip dress on the pink closet, entered the ball so freely and simply, as if all those outlets, laces, all the details of the toilet weren't worth her and her home care, as if she were born in that tulle, lace, with that high hair, with the rose and the two leaves on top of her.
When the old princess in front of the hall wanted to put a wrapped belt ribbon on it, Kitty declined slightly. She felt that everything should be good and graceful on her and that nothing needed to be corrected.
Kitty was in one of her happy days.
The dress wasn't tight anywhere, the lace bert wasn't coming down, the outlets weren't moist and they weren't torn off; the pink shoes on the high, folded heels weren't chewing, they were jolly with the foot, the thick white hair was held like their own on the small head.
All three of the buttons buckled without breaking, on a tall glove that wrapped her hand around her without changing her shape.
The black velvet of the medallion was particularly tenderly surrounded by the neck.
The velvet was adorable, and at home, looking in the mirror at her neck, Kitty felt that velvet spoke.
There might still be doubt in all the others, but the velvet was adorable.
Kitty smiled here at the ball, looking at her in the mirror.
In Kitty's bare shoulders and hands, she felt a cold marble, a feeling she especially loved.
The eyes glittered, and the blazing lips couldn't help but smile at their appeal.
Before she got into the gym and reached the tule-lento-colored crowd of ladies waiting to be invited to dance (Kiti never stood in this crowd), she was invited to the waltz, and she was invited by the best cavalier, the head of the ball hierarchy, the famous ball conductor, the ceremonymaster, the married, handsome and handsome man Egrushka Korsunsky.
Just leaving Countess Banina with whom he danced the first tour of the waltz, he looked back at his farm, i.e., he went out to dance a few pairs, saw Kitty coming in, and ran up to her with something special that belonged only to the conductors of the balls by means of a free pass, and, bowing, not even asking if she wanted to, he took his hand in order to hold her thin waist.
She looked back to whom to deliver the fan, and the mistress, smiling at her, took it.
'How good it is that you arrived on time,' he said to her, hugging her waist, 'and what a way to be late.
She put a bent, left hand on his shoulder, and little legs in pink shoes moved quickly, easily, and gradually into the rhythm of music on a slippery parket.
'You rest, waltzing with you,' he said to her, going down into the early steps of the waltz. 'The beauty, the ease, of choice,' he said to her what he said to almost everyone he knew.
She smiled at his praise and kept looking over his shoulder.
She wasn't a back-to-back, with all the faces falling into the same magical impression at the ball; she wasn't a ball-happy girl who was so familiar with the faces of the ball that she got bored; but she was in the middle of those two -- she was horny, yet she was so obsessed that she could watch.
In the left corner of the halls, she saw, the color of society was grouped.
There was an impossible naked beauty Lidie, the wife of Corsunsky, there was a mistress, there radiantly bald Krievin, always who was where the color of society was; there the young men looked, not dared to approach; and there she found Steve's eyes and then saw Anna's beautiful figure and head in a black velvet dress.
And he was here.
Kitty hasn't seen him since the night she refused Levin.
Kitty, with her long - sighted eyes, immediately recognized him and even noticed that he was looking at her.
'Well, another tour?'
Aren't you tired? 'Korsunsky said with a slight suffocation.'
'No, thank you.'
'Where can I take you?'
'Karenina is here, I think... take me to her,
'Wherever you want me to go.
And Corsunsky was obsessed, taking a step straight to the crowd in the left corner of the hall, sentencing: "Pardon, mesdames, pardon, pardon, mesdames," and pawning between the sea of laces, tuls and ribbons, without pinching a feather, turned cool to his lady, so her thin legs opened in auspicious stockings, and the plume spread out and closed their knees to Krivina.
The Korsunian bowed, straightened his open chest, and handed his hand to bring her to Anna Arkadyevna.
Kitty turned red and removed the plume from Krivina's knees and, encircled a little bit, looked back, looking for Anna.
Anna was not in the purple, as Kitty had always wanted, but in a black, low-cut velvet dress, which opened it like an old ivory, full of shoulders and breasts, and round hands with a fine tiny brush.
The whole dress was covered with Venetian hipure.
On her head, in her black hair, with no impermeability, there was a small garlic of an eye and the same one on the black ribbon of the belt between white laces.
Her hair was invisible.
The only thing that was visible was the adornment of her, these self-absorbing short rings of curly hair, always smashed in the back of her head and temples.
There was a pearl thread on the tight neck.
Kitty saw Anna every day, was in love with her, and imagined her for sure in purple. But now that she saw her in black, she felt that she didn't understand her beauty.
She now saw her completely new and unexpected to herself.
Now she realized that Anna could not be in purple and that her beauty was precisely that she had always performed from her bathroom, that the toilet could never be seen on it.
And the black dress with the lace was not seen in it: it was only a frame, and it was only seen, simple, natural, elegant, and together merry, and lively.
She stood, as always, extremely straight, and when Kitty approached that bunch, she spoke to the owner of the house, turning her head to him a little bit.
'No, I will not throw a stone,' she answered, 'even though I do not understand,' she continued, shaking her shoulders, and immediately, with a tender smile of protection, turned to Kitty.
By running a woman's look around her toilet, she made a little visible but understandable to Kitty, approving her toilet and the beauty of moving her head. 'You also enter the hall dancing,' she added.
'This is one of my most loyal associates,' said Korsunsky, bowing to Anna Arkadievna, whom he had not yet seen. 'The Princess helps make the ball fun and beautiful.
Anna Arkadievna, a waltz tour,' he said, bent over.
'Do you know each other? 'The owner asked.'
'Who do we not know?'
My wife and I are like white wolves, we are all known,' replied Corsunsky. 'The waltz tour, Anna Arkadievna.
'I don't dance when you can't dance,' she said.
'But you can't now,' replied Corsunsky.
At the time, he was coming.
'Well, if you can't stop dancing these days, let's go,' she said, without paying attention to the Bronski bow, and raised her hand quickly on Korsunsky's shoulder.
"Why is she unhappy with them?" 'I thought Kitty, noting that Anna had deliberately failed to respond to the worship of Vronski.'
Vronsky approached Kitty, reminding her of the first shot and regretting that he had not had the pleasure of seeing her all along.
Kitty looked at Anna waltzing and listened to him. She expected him to invite her to the waltz, but he didn't invite her, and she looked at him surprisedly.
He blushed and rushed to waltz, but he just hugged her thin waist and took the first step when the music stopped.
Kitty looked at his face, which was so close to her, and a long time later, a few years later, that look full of the love she had then looked at him and to which he had not responded, cut her heart with a painful shame.
'Pardon, pardon! Wals, waltz!-- screamed on the other side of the Corsunsky Hall and, after picking up the first young lady who got caught, started dancing himself.
Vronsky and Kitty went through several waltz tours. After the waltz, Kitty approached her mother and barely had time to say a few words to Nordston, as he had already come to pick her up for the first shot.
During the frame, nothing significant was said, and there was an occasional conversation about the Corsunian, the husband, and the wife, whom he described as very funny as the cute 40 - year - old children, the future of the public theater, and only once did the conversation touch her alive when he asked about Levin whether he was here and added that he liked him very much. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, uh...
But Kitty didn't expect any more from the frame. She waited for the heart of the jellyfish to die.
She felt that everything in the ointment had to be decided.
The fact that he didn't invite her to the masquerade during the time of the shot didn't bother her.
She was sure she was dancing the mazurka with him, just like she did at the previous balls, and five refused the mazurka, saying she was dancing.
The whole ball to the last shot was for Kitty a magical dream of joyous flowers, sounds, and movements.
She didn't dance only when she felt too tired and asked for rest.
But when she danced the last frame with one of the boring boys who could not be refused, it happened to be vis-a-vis with Vronsky and Anna.
She hadn't been in touch with Anna since she got here, and then she suddenly saw her again completely new and unexpected.
She saw her as so familiar with the most excruciating aspect of success.
She saw Anna drunk with wine of her admiration.
She knew that feeling and knew its signs and saw them on Anna -- she saw a trembling glow in her eyes and a smile of happiness and excitement, an involuntarily bending lips, and clear grace, loyalty and ease of movement.
"Who? 'She asked herself. 'All or one?'
And without helping the tormented young man with whom she danced, in a conversation that he missed and couldn't lift, and from the outside, subjecting herself to Korsunsky's merry-worship hooks, then throwing everyone into the grand ring, then in chaine, she watched, and her heart was clenched more and more.
"No, it wasn't the love of the crowd that intoxicated her, it was the admiration of one. And this one? Is it him?"
Every time he spoke to Anna, there was a joyous glitter in her eyes, and a smile of happiness bent her blazing lips.
It was as if she had made an effort to avoid showing these signs of joy, but they were on her face.
"But what is he?"
Kitty looked at him and freaked out.
Kitty's appearance in the mirror of Anna's face was so clear, she saw it on him.
Where did he always go with the calm, firm manner and carelessly calm expression of his face?
No, every time he turned to her, he would bend his head a little as if he wanted to fall in front of her, and in his eyes there was one expression of submission and fear.
"I don't want to insult you," every time he said his look, "but I want to save myself, and I don't know how."
There was an expression on his face that she had never seen before.
They spoke of common acquaintances, had the slightest conversation, but Kitty seemed to think that every word they had said would determine their fate and their fate.
And what's weird is that although they were really talking about how Ivan Ivanovic was funny with his French language, and that a better match could have been found for Yelka, and yet those words mattered to them, and they felt it just as they felt for Kitty.
The whole ball, the whole world, it's all covered up in a fog in Kitty's shower.
Only the strict school she attended supported her and forced her to do what she was asked to do, that is, dance, answer questions, speak, even smile.
But before the start of the jellyfish, when the chairs were set up and some couples moved from small to large halls, Kitty found a moment of despair and horror.
She said no to the five, and now she's not dancing.
There was no hope that she would be invited, precisely because she had too much success in the light, and no one thought that she would be invited until now.
I should have told my mother she was sick and gone home, but she didn't have the strength to do that.
She felt killed.
She went deep into the little living room and went down to the chair.
The air skirt of the dress rose with a cloud around her thin camp; one naked, thin, tender maiden hand, powerlessly lowered, drowned in the folds of the pink prison; in the other, she was holding a fan and washing her hot face with short moves.
But, contrary to this kind of butterfly, just clinging to the weed and ready, about to burst, to turn the rainbow wings around, a terrible despair hit her heart.
"Oh, maybe I'm wrong, maybe it didn't happen."
And she remembered everything she saw again.
'Kiti, what is this?' 'The Countess of Nordston said, 'when she approached her, she could not hear from the carpet.' 'I don't understand it.
Kitty had a tremor in her lower lip; she got up fast.
'Kiti, do you not dance the ointment?'
'No, no,' said Kitty with a trembling voice.
'He called her to the masquerade in front of me,' said Nordston, knowing that Kitty would understand who he and she were. 'She said, "Aren't you dancing with Princess Scherbatsky?
'Oh, I don't care!' said Kitty.
No one but herself understood her position, no one knew that she had refused yesterday to a man she might have loved and refused because she believed in another.
Countess Nordston found Corsunsky, whom she danced with, and told him to invite Kitty.
Kitty danced in the first couple, and, luckily, she shouldn't have spoken because Corsunsky was always running around managing his own household.
Wronsky and Anna were sitting almost against her.
She saw them with her long-sighted eyes, she saw them and near them when they faced each other in pairs, and the more she saw them, the more she became convinced that her misery had come to pass.
She saw how they felt alone in this room.
And on the face of Wronsky, always so firm and independent, she saw that expression of loss and submission that struck her, like that of a smart dog when she was guilty.
Anna smiled, and the smile passed on to him. She was thinking, and he was getting serious.
Some supernatural force drawn Kitty's eyes to Anna's face.
She was adorable in her simple black dress, adorable with her hands full with bracelets, adorable with a strong neck with a string of pearls, adorable with the curly hair of a broken hair, adorable graceful light movements of small legs and hands, adorable with this beautiful face in her rebirth; but there was something terrible and cruel about her beauty.
Kitty admired her even more than before, and she suffered more and more.
Kitty felt crushed, and her face expressed it.
When he saw her when he ran into her in a masquerade, he didn't recognize her all of a sudden -- that's how she changed.
'A beautiful ball!' he said to her to say something.
'Yes,' she answered.
In the middle, while repeating a complex figure once again invented by the Corsunian, Anna went out to the middle of the circle, took two cavaliers and called one lady and Kitty.
Kitty looked scared at her, coming up.
Anna stared and looked at her and smiled, shaking her hand. But when she noticed that Kitty's face was only an expression of despair and surprise and responded to her smile, she turned away from her and spoke to another lady in fun.
"Yes, something alien, demonic and adorable is in her," said Kitty to herself.
Anna didn't want to stay for dinner, but the master started asking her.
'Failurely, Anna Arkadievna,' said Korsunsky, taking her naked hand under the sleeve of her freckle. 'What a cotillion I have! Un bijoo!
And he moved a little, trying to draw her away.
The master smiled with approval.
'No, I will not stay,' replied Anna smiling; but despite the smile, both Korsun and the master understood by the decisive tone with which she responded that she would not remain. 'No, I already danced more at your one ball in Moscow than I did in the whole winter in Petersburg,' said Anna, looking behind her, who stood behind him. 'We need to rest in front of the road.'
'Are you going with determination tomorrow?' 'Wronsky asked.'
'Yes, I think,' Anna answered, as if surprised by the courage of his question; but the uncontrollable trembling glitter of the eyes and smiles burned him when she said it.
Anna Arkadievna didn't stay for dinner and left.
"Yeah, there's something nasty about me, repulsive," thought Levin, who went from the Shcherbatskys to his brother on foot. 'And I am not fit for other people.'
Pride, they say.
No, I don't have any pride.
If I had been proud, I wouldn't have put myself in that position."
And he was imagining how happy, happy, kind, intelligent, and calm he must never have been in the terrible situation he was in this evening.
"Yeah, she had to choose him.
That's what I have to do, and I don't have to complain about anyone.
It's my fault.
What right did I have to think she'd want to share her life with mine?
Who am I? What about me?
It's nothing, nobody's, nobody's needless."
And he remembered Nikolai's brother and was happy to stop at that memory.
"Isn't he right that everything in the world is bad and nasty?
And it's hardly fair to judge and judge Nikolai's brother.
Of course, from the perspective of Procotheus, who saw him in a torn coat and drunk, he is a contemptible man; but I know him differently.
I know his soul and I know we're like him.
And instead of going to find him, I went to lunch here."
Levin came to the torch, read the address of his brother, who was in his wallet, and called the driver.
All the long journey to his brother Levin vividly remembered all the events he had known from his brother Nikolai's life.
He remembered as a brother at the university and a year after the university, in spite of his comrades' ridicule, living as a monk, strictly performing all the rites of religion, service, fasting, and avoiding all the pleasures, especially of women; and then, all of a sudden, he burst into tears, and he drew close to the most vile people, and he went into the most distasteful festivities.
Then I thought about the story of the boy he took from the village to raise, and in a fit of anger, I beat him so hard that the case started on the charge of injuring him.
Then he remembered the story of the brother-in-law he lost money to, he gave a note, and he filed a complaint against him, proving that he had lied to him.
(It was the money Sergei Ivanovich paid.)
Then I remembered how he spent the night in the middle of a riot. I remembered his shameful trial with Brother Sergei Ivanovic for not paying him his share of his mother &apos; s estate; and the last case, when he left to serve in the West Province and was brought to trial there for the beatings he had suffered...
It was all awful, but Levin didn't seem as nasty as it should have been to those who didn't know Nikolai Levin, didn't know his whole story, didn't know his heart.
Levin remembered, as when Nikolai was in a period of piety, of posts, of monks, of church services, when he sought help in his religion, of his passionate nature, not only did no one support him, but all, and he himself, laughed at him.
He was teased, called Noah, a monk; and when he burst, no one helped him. To him, and everyone turned away with horror and disgust.
Levin felt that Nikolai's brother in his soul, at the very heart of his soul, despite all the abominations of his life, was no more wrong than those who despised him.
It wasn't his fault that he was born with his uncontrollable character and his shy mind.
But he always wanted to be good.
"I'll tell him everything, I'll make him say everything, and I'll show him that I love him, and that's why I understand him," said Levin himself, arriving at the hotel on the address at eleven o'clock.
'Upstairs is the twelfth and thirteenth,' replied the doorman to Levin's question.
'At home?'
'It must be at home.'
The door of the twelfth numeral was semi-enacted, and from there, in a strip of light, a thick smoke of bad and weak tobacco came out, and a voice unknown to Levin heard: but Levin knew immediately that his brother was here: he heard him plowing.
When he walked through the door, a strange voice spoke.
'It all depends on how wisely and consciously it is.'
Konstantin Levin looked at the door and saw what the young man in the pillow spoke to the giant hat of hair, and the young jabby woman, wearing a woolly dress without sleeves and collars, sat on the couch. I couldn't see my brother.
Constantin had a heartache when he thought about what kind of strangers his brother lived in.
No one heard him, and Konstantin, taking off his claps, listened to what the master had said in the tray.
He was talking about some kind of business.
'Well, damn their privileged classes!' said his brother's voice, walking through it. 'Masha!
Why don't you get us dinner and give us some wine, if it's-- if it's melted, let's go.
A woman got up, went out of her way and saw Constantin.
'Some barn, Nikolai Dmitrich,' she said.
'Whom do you want?' 'Angrily said Nikolai Levin's voice.
'It's me,' answered Konstantin Levin, coming out.
'Who am I? 'And yet angrily repeated Nikolai's voice.
I heard him stand up fast and grab something, and Levin saw in front of himself in a door so familiar and yet astounding with his savageness and pain a huge, thin, slutty figure of his brother, with his big scared eyes.
He was even thinner than he was three years ago when Konstantin Levin last saw him.
He had a short surf on him. And the arms and wide bones seemed even bigger.
The hair became smaller, the same straight mustache hung on the lips, and the same eyes looked strangely and naively at the enterer.
'Ah, Kostya! 'He said, all of a sudden, when he knew his brother, and his eyes rejoiced.'
But at the same moment, he looked back at a young man and made what Konstantin knew a sober movement of his head and neck, as if the tie was stabbing him; and a very different, wild, painful and cruel expression stopped at his deranged face.
'I have written to you and Sergei Ivanovich that I don't know you and I don't want to know you.
What do you want, what do you want?
He wasn't exactly what Konstantin imagined him to be.
The most difficult and bad thing about his character, what made it so difficult to communicate with him, was forgotten by Constantin Levin when he thought about him; and now, when he saw his face, especially the twirling of his head, he remembered all this.
'I don't need to see you for anything,' he answered shyly. 'I just came to see you.
My brother's phantom must have softened Nikolai. He flipped his lips.
'Ah, are you? 'He said.' 'Come in, sit down.
Do you want to have dinner?
Masha, bring three shots.
No, wait.
Do you know who that is? 'He turned to his brother, pointing to the master in the pin,' said Mr. Kricki, a friend of mine from Kiev, a very wonderful man.
He's, of course, being pursued by the police because he's not a scoundrel.
And he looked back on his habit at all the exes in the room.
When he saw the woman standing in the door moving, he cried out to her, "Wait, I said." And with that indiscretion, with the incompatibility of the conversation that Konstantin knew so well, he, looking back at everyone, began to tell his brother the story of Kritzky: how he was kicked out of the university for having set up a society of wake-up for poor students and Sunday schools, and how he then went to the people's school as a teacher, and how he was kicked out as well, and how he was then judged for something.
'Are you the University of Kiev?' 'Constantin Levin Kricki said to break the awkward silence that had been established.
'Yes, Kiev was,' said Kritsky angryly, drunk.
'And this woman,' interrupted him Nikolai Levin, pointing to her,'my friend of life, Maria Nikolaevna. I took her out of the house, and he snapped his neck saying it. 'But I love her and respect her and all those who want to know me,' he added by raising his voice and frowning, 'please love and respect her.
She's like my wife, anyway.
Well, you know who you're dealing with. And if you think you're gonna be humiliated, that's God, and that's the threshold.
And again, his eyes ran away in a question-and-answer manner.
'Why do I humiliate myself, I do not understand?'
'So tell me, Masha, to bring dinner: three meals, vodka and wine...'
No, wait...
No, don't...
Go on.
'You see,' said Nikolai Levin, with the effort of wrinkling his forehead and pulling.
He must have had a hard time figuring out what to say and what to do. 'You see...' He pointed out in the corner of the room some iron strings bound by the twigs. 'Do you see this?
It's the beginning of a new case that we're starting.
The case is a productive artifact...
Konstantin didn't listen much.
He looked at his painful, cheesy face, and more and more he felt sorry for him, and he couldn't make himself listen to what his brother told him about the artery.
He saw that this artery was only an anchor for saving himself from contempt.
Nikolai Levin continued to say:
'You know that capital puts pressure on an employee,' we men bear the burden of labour and are forced to do so that no matter how hard they work, they cannot escape their livestock.
All the wages they could afford to improve their position, to enjoy their leisure and thus their education, and all the extra pay -- are taken away from them by capitalists.
And so society is that the more they work, the more the merchants, the land owners, and they'll be livestock workers always.
And this order needs to be changed,' he ended up looking at his brother in question.
'Yes, of course,' said Constantin, looking at the blush, who spoke under his brother's outstanding cheeks.
'And here we are setting up an artery, where all the production, and the lemons, most of all the tools of production, will be in common.'
'Where will the artifact be?' 'Ask Konstantin Levin.
'In the village of Azdrem of Kazan Obernia.
'Why is it in the village?'
In the countryside, I think there's a lot going on.
Why is there a locksmith in the village?
'And because men are now the same slaves as they were before, and it makes you and Sergei Ivanich uncomfortable that they want to be taken out of this slavery,' said Nikolai Levin, angry with the objection.
Konstantin Levin sighed, looking around the room, dark and filthy.
This breath seemed even more annoying to Nikolai.
'I know your and Sergei Ivanov's aristocratic views.
I know he's using all his mental powers to justify the evil that exists.
'No, why are you talking about Sergei Ivanovich? 'Speaks with a smile, Levin.'
'Oh, Sergei Ivanovic?'
But here's the thing!-- suddenly, in the name of Sergei Ivanovich, Nikolai Levin cried out,--that's what...
What can I say?
Just one thing...
Why did you come to see me?
You despise it, and fine, and go with God, go!-- he screamed from the chair, and go and go!
'I do not despise at all,' said Konstantin Levin shyly. 'I don't even argue.
Maria Nikolaevna returned at that time.
Nikolai Levin pissed at her.
She quickly approached him and whispered something.
'I'm sick, I've become annoying,' said, calming and breathing, Nikolai Levin, 'and then you talk to me about Sergei Ivanović and his article.
It's such nonsense, it's such lies, it's so self-loathing.
What can a man who doesn't know her write about justice?
Have you read his article? 'He turned to Kritz, once again sitting on the table, and moving from him to half of the papyros, to recalibrate the place. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Indeed, he turned to Kricki, &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt
'I didn't read it,' said Kritsky, who apparently didn't want to talk.
'Why? 'Now he turned irritatingly to Cricket Nikolai Levin.
'Cause I don't think it's necessary to waste time.
'I mean, allow me, why do you know you'll be wasting your time?'
Many do not have access to this article, that is, above them.
But I, on the other hand, can see through his thoughts and I know why it's weak.
Everybody shut up.
Cricket slowly stood up and took the hat.
'Would you like to have dinner?'
Well, goodbye.
Come with the locksmith tomorrow.
Kritsky just got out, Nikolai Levin smiled and winked.
'That's too bad,' he said. 'Cause I see...
But at that time, Kritzky called him in the door.
'What more do you need?' 'He said, and went out to him into the hallway.'
Left alone with Maria Nikolaevna, Levin turned to her.
'How long have you been with your brother?' 'He said to her.
'This is the second year.
Their health has become very poor. They drink a lot,' she said.
'What do you mean, he drinks?'
'The vodka is drunk and the water is bad for them.'
'How much is it?' 'Whether Levin whispered.'
'Yes,' she said, looking shyly at the door in which Nikolai Levin appeared.
'What were you talking about? 'He said, frowning and turning his frightened eyes from one to another. 'On what?
'Nothing,' Konstantin replied, embarrassingly.
'You don't want to say what you want.'
But you don't have to talk to her.
She's a girl, and you're a bastard,' he said with his neck strung. 'You, I see, have understood and appreciated everything and have regretted my error,' he said again, raising his voice.
'Nicolai Dmitrich, Nikolai Dmitrich,' whispered Mary Nikolaevna again, approaching him.
'Well, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good.
What's the matter with dinner?
Ah, there he is,' he said, seeing a footman with a tray. 'This way, put it here,' he said angryly, and immediately took a vodka, poured a drink and had a greedy drink. 'Drink it, will you?' 'He turned to his brother, laughing immediately.' 'Well, it will be about Sergei Ivanovic.
It's good to see you.
It's no use, it's not anyone else's.
Come on, have a drink.
Tell me, what are you doing?-- he continued, greedyly chewing over a piece of bread and pouring another drink. 'How do you live?
'I live alone in the village as I used to live and do business,' answered Constantin, looking horribly at the greed with which his brother drank and ate and tried to hide his attention.
'Why aren't you getting married?
'I didn't have to,' answered Konstantin red.
'Why?
I'm done!
I ruined my life.
That's what I said, and I'll say that if they gave me my part when I needed it, my whole life would be different.
Konstantin Dmitrich has rushed the conversation.
'Do you know that I have your Vanyusha in my office? 'He said.'
Nikolai pulled his neck and thought.
'Why don't you tell me what's going on in Pokrovsk? What, the house is all standing, and the birches and ours are great?
Philip the gardener, is he still alive?
As I remember the gazebo and the couch!
Look, don't change anything in the house, but get married and start the same thing again.
I'll come to you if your wife's good.
'Come to me now,' said Levin. 'How good we'd be!
'I would have come to you if I had known I wouldn't have found Sergei Ivanovic.'
'You won't find him.
I live completely independently of him.
'Yes, but whatever you say, you must choose between me and him,' he said, looking modestly into his brother's eyes.
This impertinence has touched Constantin.
'If you want to know all my confession in this regard, I will tell you that in your argument with Sergei Ivanov, I do not take either side.
You're both wrong. You're wrong in a more external way, and he's more inside.
'Ah, ah!
You understand that, you understand that? 'Happily Nikolai cried out.'
'But personally, if you want to know, I care more about friendship with you because...
'Why, why?
Constantin couldn't say he cared because Nikolai was unhappy and needed friendship.
But Nikolai realized that that's what he was gonna say, and when he frowned, he went back to the vodka.
'It will be, Nikolai Dmitrich!' said Maria Nikolaevna, extending a swollen naked hand to the Countess.
'Let go of me!
Don't bother!
I'll kill you!-- he screamed.
Maria Nikolaevna smiled with a mild and kind smile, which also reported to Nikolai and accepted the vodka.
'Do you think she doesn't understand?' 'Cause Nikolai said. 'She understands all this better than all of us.
Is it true there's something good about her, sweetheart?
'You've never been to Moscow before? 'I told her Constantin to say something.'
'Don't tell her.
She's afraid of it.
She has no one but the Justice of the Peace, when she was tried for wanting to leave the house of debauchery, no one told you. Oh, my God, that doesn't make any sense! 'Suddenly he cried out.' 'These new institutions, these justices of the peace, the earth, what a mess!
And he started talking about his clashes with new institutions.
Constantin Levin listened to him, and the denial of meaning in all public institutions that he shared and often spoke with him was now unpleasant to him from his brother's mouth.
'In that world we will understand all this,' he said, kidding.
'In the world?'
Oh, I don't like that light! 'I don't like it,' he said, stopping the frightened wild eyes on his brother's face. 'And I think it would be good to get out of all the filth, the confusion, and the stranger and his own, and I'm afraid of death, and I'm terrified of death.' 'He shuddered. 'Drink something.
You want some champagne?
Or we could go somewhere.
Let's go to the gypsies!
You know, I really loved gypsies and Russian songs.
His tongue got in the way, and he went from one subject to another.
Konstantin, with the help of Masha, persuaded him not to go anywhere and put him to sleep completely drunk.
Masha promised to write to Constantin in case of need and to persuade Nikolai Levin to come and live with her brother.
In the morning, Konstantin Levin left Moscow and arrived home by evening.
Honey, in the car, he was talking to his neighbors about politics, about new railways, and, just as he was in Moscow, he was struck by confusion of concepts, displeasure of himself, shame before something; but when he came out of his station, he learned the crooked Ignat coucher with the high kaftan collar, when he saw in the dark light falling out of the windows of the station, his carpet sleigh, his horses with their tails tied, with rings and mohrats, when the Ignat coach was still in bed, he told him the village news, the arrival of the rowman, and the fact that Pava had settled -- he felt that there was some confusion and shame and displeasure of herself.
He felt it at one sight of Ignat and the horses: but when he put on the skull which was brought to him, he sat down, wrapped up, in the sled, and went, thinking about the coming orders in the village, and looking at the drawing, the former upper, the Donan, the torn horse, he had a different understanding of what had happened to him.
He felt like himself and didn't want to be anyone else.
He only wanted to be better now than he was before.
First, from this day forward, he decided that he would no longer hope for the extraordinary happiness that he should have been given to marry, and therefore would not so neglect the present.
Second, he's never gonna let himself get carried away with the vile passion that he was so tormented about when he was gonna propose.
Then, after remembering Nikolai's brother, he decided with himself that he would never let himself forget him again, would keep an eye on him, and would not let him out of sight to be ready for help when he had to be ill.
And that's gonna be soon, he felt it.
Then the brother's conversation about communism, to which he was so easy at the time, made him think.
He thought the transformation of economic conditions was nonsense, but he had always felt the injustice of his excess in comparison with the poverty of the people and had now decided for himself that, in order to feel right, he, although he had previously worked hard and had not lived luxuriously, would now work even more and would allow himself even less luxury.
And all of this seemed so easy for him to do on himself that he spent the whole way in the most pleasant dreams. With a renewed sense of hope for a new, better life, he arrived at his home at nine o'clock in the morning.
From the windows of Agatha Mikhaylovna's room, an old nanny who served as a housekeeper in his house, the light fell on the snow of the site in front of the house.
She hasn't slept yet. Kuzma, she woke up, sleepy and barefoot, ran out on the porch.
Laska's lying bitch, almost knocked Kuzma off her feet, jumped out and screamed, rubbed her knees on his knees, climbed up, and wanted and dared not put her forelegs on his chest.
'At short notice, my father has returned,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna.
'I miss you, Agatha Mikhaylovna.
The guests were fine, but the house was better,' he answered her and went into the office.
The office was slowly lit with a candle. Some familiar details came out: deer horns, book shelves, oven mirror with a deadbeat that should have been fixed a long time ago, father's couch, big table, open book on the table, broken ashtray, notebook with his handwriting.
When he saw all this, he was in doubt for a moment about the opportunity to build the new life he had dreamed of dearly.
He said, "No, you will not leave us, nor will you be as you were."
But that's what his things said, the other voice in the shower said that you don't have to obey the past and that it's possible to do anything to yourself.
And by listening to that voice, he came up to the corner where he had two pudding guries, and started raising them gymnastically, trying to keep himself awake.
There were steps squeaking behind the door. He put the giri in haste.
The orderman came in and said everything, thank God, was safe, but said the Greeks in the new dryer were burned.
The news has annoyed Levin.
The new dryer was built and part of it was invented by Levin.
The order was always against this dryer and now, with a hidden celebration, announced that the Greeks had burned down.
Levin was firmly convinced that if it burned, it was simply because the measures he had ordered had not been taken hundreds of times.
He got pissed off, and he reprimanded the orderman.
But there was one important and joyous event: Pava, the best, dear, bought from a cow's exhibition, moved in.
'Kuzma, give me the dumbass.
And you tell me to take a flashlight, I'm going to take a look,' he said to the orderman.
The cattle for the expensive cows were behind the house right now.
Passing through the yard by the syringe, he approached the cattle.
Smells like a dung, warm ferry when the door opened, and the cows, surprised by the unusual light of the lantern, moved on a fresh straw...
The Dutch woman's smooth black-and-peg wide back came to light.
Berkut, the bull, lay with his ring in his mouth and wanted to get up, but he thought about it and only kicked twice when he walked by. A red beauty, as big as a hippopotamus, Pava turned her back and hid and sniffed the calf.
Levin entered the daylight, looked back at Pava, and raised a red and pegged calf on his shaky long legs. Pava was agitated, but she calmed down when Levin moved a chick to her, and with a heavy sigh, she licked her with her hornet's tongue.
The chick, looking for her, pushed her nose under her mother's groin and turned her tail.
'Here's the light, Fedor, the lantern,' said Levin, looking around the chick. 'To Mother!
I'm giving it to my dad. Very good.
It's long and pasty. Vasily Fedorovich is good, isn't she? 'He turned to the commander, completely reconciling himself with him for the Greek under the influence of joy for the chick.'
'Whose evil is it to be in?'
And Semen, the next day you left, there was a roommate.
We'll have to dress up with him, Konstantin Dmitrich,' said the commander. 'I've reported the car to you before.
One question brought Levin into all the details of the farm, which was large and complex, and he went straight from the cowhouse to the office and, after talking to the orderman and to the Semen, returned home and walked straight upstairs into the living room.
The house was big, old, and Levin lived alone, but drowned and occupied the whole house.
He knew it was stupid, knew it wasn't even good and disgusted with his current new plans, but the house was the whole world for Levin.
It was the world in which his father and mother lived and died.
They lived a life that Levin felt to be the ideal of all perfection and that he wanted to resume with his wife, his family.
Levin barely remembered his mother.
The notion of her was a sacred memory to him, and his future wife had to be in his imagination a repetition of the lovely, holy ideal of a woman as his mother was to him.
Not only could he not imagine love for a woman without marriage, but he had previously imagined a family and then a woman who would give him a family.
His notions of marriage were therefore not similar to those of most of his acquaintances, for whom marriage was one of many dormitories; for Levin it was the main work of life on which all her happiness depended.
And now it had to be abandoned!
When he entered the small living room, where he always drank tea, and sat down in his chair with a book, and Agatha Mikhaylovna brought him tea and his usual, "I'll sit down, Father," sat down on a chair by the window, he felt that, strangely enough, he didn't give up his dreams and that he couldn't live without them.
It's with her, it's with each other, but it's gonna happen.
He read the book, thinking about what he had read, stopping to listen to Agatha Mikhaylovna, who had not been tired of talking; however, different pictures of the economy and future family life without connection seemed to his imagination.
He felt that in the depths of his soul something had been set up, died, and laid down.
He listened to Agatha Mikhaylovna's conversation about how Prohor forgot God and the money that Levin gave him to buy a horse, drinks without waking up, and beats his wife to death; he listened and read the book, and remembered the whole course of his reading thoughts.
It was Tindall's book about warmth.
He recalled his convictions to Tindal for his smugness in experimenting and for his lack of philosophical vision.
And suddenly there was a joyous thought, "In two years' time, I'm going to have two Dutch women in my flock, and Pava himself may still be alive, twelve young Berkut daughters, and I'm gonna put them on the street end of these three -- a miracle!"
He took the book again.
"Well, electricity and warmth are the same, but is it possible in the equation to set one value instead of another?
So what's it gonna be?
The connection between all the forces of nature already feels instinct...
It's particularly nice how Pavina's daughter's gonna be a red-peg cow, and all the herds in which you and these three...
Great!
To go out with my wife and guests to meet the herd...
My wife will say, Bones and I, as a child, have had this chick.
How can you be so interested? The guest will say.
All he cares about is me.
But who is she?" And he remembered what happened in Moscow...
"Well, what are we gonna do?
It's not my fault.
But now it's gonna be a new one.
That's nonsense that won't allow life, that the past won't.
You have to fight to make a better, much better life..."
He raised his head and thought.
The old Laska, who had not yet fully digested the joy of his arrival and was running to shine in the yard, returned, waving her tail and carrying the smell of air, came up to him, put her head under his hand, complainingly chewing, and demanding that he paddle her.
'Don't say it,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna. 'And the dog...'
I mean, he knows the owner's here and he's bored.
'Why is it boring?'
'Didn't I see, Father?
It's time for me to know.
The irritations of the lords have grown.
Nothing, Father. There'd be health and a clean conscience.
Levin stared at her, wondering how she understood his thoughts.
'Well, can I get you another cup of tea?' 'She said, and when she had taken the cup, she went out.'
Laska kept sticking her head under his arm.
He ironed her, and right at his feet, she folded a ring, putting her head on a sticky back paw.
And as a sign that everything was all right and well now, she opened her mouth a little bit, kissed her lips, and better put out her sticky lips around the old tooth, quieted in blissful calm.
Levin followed this latest movement closely.
"So did I!" he said to himself, "So did I!"
Nothing...
It's okay."
After the ball, early in the morning, Anna Arkadievna sent her husband a telegram about her departure from Moscow on the same day.
'No, I have to, I have to go,' she explained to the daughter-in-law the change of purpose in such a tone that she remembered so many things she wouldn't read, 'no, better now!'
Stepan Arkadić didn't eat at home, but he promised to see his sister at seven o'clock.
Kitty didn't come either, sending a note that she had a headache.
Dolly and Anna had lunch alone with the children and the English woman.
Is it because the children are unstable or very sensitive and feel that Anna is not at all the same on this day as when they loved her so much that she is no longer busy with them -- but only suddenly they stopped playing with her aunt and love for her, and they were completely oblivious to the fact that she was leaving.
Anna's been busy getting ready to leave all morning. She wrote notes to Moscow's acquaintances, wrote down her accounts, and put it down.
In fact, Dolly felt that she was not in a calm spirit, but in a spirit of care that Dolly knew well for herself and that found not for no reason and most of it to be a cover for displeasure.
After lunch, Anna went to dress in her room, and Dolly followed her.
'How strange you are today!' said Dolly to her.
'I am? Do you find it?
I'm not weird, but I'm bad.
Uh, it happens to me.
I want to cry.
It's very silly, but it's going on,' said Anna quickly, and turned a red face to a toy bag in which she was putting a nightcap and a batty handkerchief.
Her eyes were particularly glittering, and her eyes were constantly ruffled with tears. 'So I didn't want to leave Petersburg, and now I don't want to leave.'
'You came here and did a good deed,' said Dolly, looking closely at it.
Anna looked at her with her eyes wet with tears.
'Don't say that, Dolly.
I didn't do anything, I couldn't do it.
I often wonder why people conspired to ruin me.
What did I do and what could I do?
You have so much love in your heart to forgive...
'God knows what would have happened without you!
How happy you are, Anna!' said Dolly. 'You have everything in your heart clearly and well.'
'Every man has his skeletons in his soul, as the English say.
'What are your sceletons like?
You're so clear.
'Yes!' said Anna all of a sudden, and suddenly, after tears, a sneaky, laughing smile wrinkled her lips.
'Well, they are funny, your sceletons, not dark ones,' said Dolly, smiling.
Do you know why I'm going today instead of tomorrow? This is a confession that pressured me, and I want to make it to you,' said Anna, stabbingly on the chair and looking straight into Dolly's eyes.
And to her surprise, Dolly saw that Anna had blushed to her ears, to the curling black rings of hair on her neck.
'Yes,' continued Anna. 'Do you know why Kitty didn't come for lunch?'
She's jealous of me.
I messed up... I was the reason this ball was torture for her, not joy.
But, right, right, right, it's not my fault, or it's my fault a little bit,' she said, with a thin voice extending the word "a little."
'Oh, it looks like you said it to Steve!' said Dolly laughing.
Anna was insulted.
'Oh, no, no! I am not Steve,' she said, frowning. 'I'm telling you that I don't even allow myself to doubt myself for a moment,' said Anna.
But the minute she spoke those words, she felt that they were unfair; not only did she doubt herself, she felt anxious at the thought of Bronsk, and she left more than she wanted to, just to stop seeing him.
'Yes, Steve told me that you danced the ointment with him and that he...
'You can't imagine how funny it was.'
I was just thinking about grabbing, and all of a sudden, it's different.
Maybe I'm against my will...
She blushed and stopped.
'Oh, they feel it now!' said Dolly.
'But I would be desperate if there was anything serious on his part,' interrupted Anna. 'And I am sure that this will all be forgotten and Kitty will cease to hate me.
'Oh, Anna, to tell you the truth, I don't really want this marriage for Kitty. And it's better if he can fall in love with you in one day.
'Oh, my God, that would be so stupid!' said Anna, and again, the thick paint of pleasure appeared on her face when she heard what she was thinking, spoken out in words. 'Well, I am leaving, making myself an enemy to Kitty, whom I have loved so much.'
Oh, she's so cute!
But you're gonna fix this, Dolly?
Yeah?
Dolly could barely hold a smile.
She loved Anna, but she was pleased to see that she too had weaknesses.
'Enemy?'
It can't be.
'I wish you all loved me as I love you; and now I have loved you even more,' she said with tears before her eyes. 'Ah, I am so stupid now!
She put a handkerchief on her face and started dressing.
A late Stepan Arkadić arrived just before he left, with a red face, a funny face, and a smell of wine and cigars.
Anna's sensitivity also reported to Dolly, and when she last hugged the sister-in-law, she whispered:
'Remember, Anna, what you have done for me, I will never forget.' And remember that I loved you and will always love you as my best friend!
'I do not understand why,' said Anna, kissing her and hiding her tears.
'You understand and understand.'
Goodbye, my darling!
"Well, it's over, and thank God!" 'It was the first thought that came to Anna Arkadievna, when she last said goodbye to her brother, who, until the third call, blocked the way in the car.
She sat on her couch, next to Annushka, and looked around in a sleeping car half-light.
"Thank God I'm gonna see Serez and Alexei Alexandrovich tomorrow, and I'm gonna go with my life, good and normal, old-fashioned."
Still, in the same spirit of concern that she had been in all that day, Anna had been happy and clear on the road; with her small hands, she opened and locked a red bag, took out a pillow, put herself on her knees, and carefully wrapped her legs and sat down.
The sick lady was sleeping.
Two other ladies talked to her, and the fat old lady ducked her legs and made remarks about the top.
Anna answered a few words to the ladies, but without foreseeing interest in the conversation, she asked Annushka to get a flashlight, attached it to the arm of the chair, and took a cut knife and an English novel from her purse.
She wasn't read to her at first.
First, the climbing and walking were hindered; then, when the train was moved, one could not ignore the sound; then the snow that hit the left window and stuck on the glass, and the view of the past conductor, which had snowed on one side, and the talk of what a terrible blizzard in the yard was now, entertaining her attention.
The same thing went on; the same trembling with the knocking, the same snow through the window, the same rapid transitions from steam heat to cold and again to heat, the same grinding of the same faces in the middle of darkness and the same voices, and Anna began to read and understand what was read.
Annushka was already asleep, holding a red bag on her knees with wide arms in gloves, one of which was torn.
Anna Arkadyevna read and understood, but she did not like to read, that is, to observe the reflection of other people's lives.
She wanted to live too much.
She wanted to walk around the patient's room unheard of; whether she had read about how a member of Parliament spoke; whether she had read about how Lady Mary was riding the pack and teasing the daughter-in-law and surprised everyone with her courage; she wanted to do so herself.
But there was nothing to do, and she used her little hands to use a smooth knife to increase her reading.
The hero of the novel had already begun to reach her English happiness, baronecy, and wealth, and Anna wanted to go with him in that property, as she suddenly felt that she should be ashamed of him and that she was ashamed of him. But why is he ashamed?
"Why am I ashamed?" 'She asked herself with insult.'
She left the book and leaned on the back of the chair with a sliced knife in both hands.
There was nothing to be ashamed of.
She's had too many of her Moscow memories.
Everyone was good, nice.
I remembered the ball, and I remembered his humble face and his lover, and I remembered all my relationship with him: nothing was ashamed.
At the same time, in this very place of memories, the sense of shame was heightened, as if some inner voice was here, when she remembered Vronsk, saying to her, "Terror, very warm, hot."
"Well? 'She said to herself with determination, sitting in a chair.' 'What does that mean?
Am I afraid to look directly at this?
Well?
Can there be any relationship between me and this boy officer other than that of every acquaintance?"
She laughed in contempt and went back to the book, but she could no longer understand what she had read.
She cut a knife through the glass, then attached a smooth and cold surface to her cheek, and almost laughed out of joy, suddenly without cause.
She felt her nerves, like strings, pulled up tight and tight on some kind of curly punk.
She felt that her eyes were opening up more and more, that the fingers on her arms and legs were moving nervously, that there was something inside that was pressuring her breath, and that all the images and sounds in that swirling half-dark with extraordinary brightness struck her.
There were always moments of doubt as to whether the train was going forward or back or not. Is Annushka near her, or is he a stranger?
"What is it, on a pen, is it a coat or a beast?
What am I doing here?
Am I the one or the other?"
She was afraid to give up on it.
But something dragged into it, and she could at random give it up and abstain.
She came up to remember, tossed off her blanket and took off her warm-weather pellet.
For a minute, she remembered and realized that the thin man who came in in with the long nanny coat that was missing the buttons was a stunt, that he was looking at the thermometer, that the wind and the snow broke into the door after him, but then it was all mixed up again...
The man with the long waist began to bite something in the wall, the old lady stretched her legs all over the length of the car and filled it with a black cloud; then something squealed and snatched as if someone had been torn apart; then the red fire blinded her eyes, and then everything was covered with a wall.
Anna felt that she had failed.
But it wasn't scary, it was fun.
The voice of a wrapped and snowed man screamed something over her ear.
She came up and remembered; she realized that she was approaching the station and that it was the conductor.
She asked Annushka to give her a shawl and a handkerchief, put them on, and headed to the door.
'Will you come out?' 'Annushka asked.'
'Yes, I want to breathe.'
It's very hot in here.
And she opened the door.
The wind and the wind broke into her face and argued with her about the door.
And she thought it was fun.
She opened the door and came out.
It was as if the wind had been waiting for her, had gotten excited and wanted to pick her up and carry her away, but she took her hand to the cold pole and held on to the dress and went down to the platform and went after the car.
The wind was strong on the wing, but the platform behind the cars was quiet.
With pleasure, full of breasts, she breathed into herself the snowy, cold air and, standing under the wagon, looked around the platform and the lighted station.
A terrible storm broke and whistled between the wheels of the wagons on the poles at the corner of the station.
Wagons, poles, people, all that was seen -- were brought in on one side by snow and brought in more and more.
The storm subsided for a moment, but then came again with such impulses that it seemed impossible to resist it.
Meanwhile, some people were running around, having fun talking, squeaking on the platform boards and always opening and closing the big doors.
A man's bent shadow slipped under her feet and heard the sound of a hammer on the gland.
"Give it to me!" 'There was an angry voice on the other side of the stormy darkness.
"Wait here! N28!" &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
Some two masters with papyros in their mouths passed her.
She sighed again to breathe, and she had already taken her hand out of the mufta to pick up the pole and enter the wagon, as another man in a military coat under her own cover covered her with the fuzzy light of the lantern.
She looked back and recognized the face of Wronski at the same moment.
By sticking his hand to the visor, he leaned in front of her and asked if she needed anything, could he serve her?
For a long time, without answering anything, she looked at him and, despite the shadow in which he stood, she saw, or she thought she had seen, and the look on his face and on his eye.
It was, again, an expression of reverential admiration that affected her so much yesterday.
More than once she has told herself these last days, and now only one of the hundreds of eternally the same young people she has met, that she will never allow herself to think about him; but now, in the first moment of meeting him, she is filled with a sense of joyous pride.
She didn't have to ask why he was here.
She knew it as well as if he told her he was here to be where she was.
'I didn't know you were coming.
Why are you going? 'She said, by putting her hand down, which was at the stake.'
And the unstoppable joy and rejuvenation glowed on her face.
'Why am I going? 'He repeated, looking straight into her eyes.' 'You know, I'm going to be where you are,' he said, 'I can't be different.
And at the same time, as if it were an obstacle, the wind was snowing on the roofs of the wagons, blazing with some iron-sprayed sheet, and blazingly and darkly in front of it was the thick whistle of the steam.
All the horror of the blizzards seemed even more beautiful now.
He said what her soul desired, but she feared reason.
She didn't answer anything, and he saw a struggle on her face.
'Excuse me, if you dislike what I have said,' he said with humility.
He spoke politely, respectfully, but so firmly and steadfastly that she had been unable to respond for a long time.
'It's a bad thing you're saying, and I beg you, if you're a good person, forget what you said, as I will forget,' she said at last.
'No word of yours, no movement of yours I will never forget, nor can I...'
'Enough, enough!' she cried, in vain, seeking to give a strict expression to his face, which he was greedyly looking at.
And when she took her hand by the cold pillar, she went up to the steps, and entered quickly into the shade of the wagon.
But in these little hays, she stopped thinking about what she was.
Without remembering her or his words, she realized that the moment's conversation had brought them very close together, and she was frightened and happy with it.
After a few seconds, she entered the car and sat in her seat.
The magical tense state that she was experiencing at first, not only resumed, but increased to the point that she was afraid that something too tight would break up in her at any moment.
She was up all night. But there was nothing unpleasant or sombre about the tension and the grudges that filled her imagination; on the contrary, there was something joyful, burning, and exhilarating.
By morning, Anna was asleep sitting in a chair, and when she woke up, it was white, light, and the train approached Petersburg.
At once, the thoughts of the house, of the husband, of the son, and of the cares of the day to come, and of the next, came upon her.
In Petersburg, a train just stopped and she left, the first person to draw her attention was the face of her husband.
"Oh, my God! Why did he have such ears?" 'She thought, looking at his cold and representative figure, and especially at the greasy ears that have now struck her with round hat fields.'
When he saw her, he met her, folded his lips into his usual laughing smile and looked straight at her with big tired eyes.
Some unpleasant feeling hurt her heart when she met his obstinate and tired look, as if she expected to see him to others.
In particular, she was struck by the displeasure she felt when she met him.
It was a long-standing, familiar feeling, similar to the state of pretence she had in her relationship with her husband; but she had not previously noticed that feeling, and now she knew it clearly and painfully.
'Yes, as you can see, the gentle husband, like another year's marriage, was burning to see you,' he said with his slow, thin voice and the tone that he had always almost used with her, the tone of ridicule against someone who would actually say that,
'Serezha is well? 'She asked.'
'And this is all the reward,' he said, 'for my passion?
Hey, hey, hey, hey.
He wasn't trying to sleep all night.
He sat on his chair, looking straight ahead, looking back and forth; and even if he had struck and disturbed strangers with his view of unshakeable calm, he now seemed even more proud and self-satisfied.
He looked at people like things.
A young nervous man in the district court who sat against him hated him for his appearance.
A young man and he smoked at his place, and talked to him, and even pushed him to make him feel like he wasn't a thing, but he looked at him as much as he looked at a flashlight, and a young man made a look, feeling that he was losing his temper under the pressure of this unrecognition by his man.
Vronsky didn't see anyone.
He felt like king not because he believed that he had impressed Anna -- he had not yet believed it -- but because the impression she had made on him gave him happiness and pride.
What's gonna come out of this, he didn't know, and he didn't even think about it.
He felt that all his decomposed, scattered forces had been gathered together, and with terrible energy had been directed toward the same blissful goal.
And he was happy about it.
All he knew was that he told her the truth, that he was going where she was, that all the happiness of life, the only purpose of life now was to see and hear her.
And when he came out of the car in Bologov, to drink celery water, and saw Anna, his first word said to her involuntarily what he thought.
And he was glad he told her that, that she knew that now and thought about it.
He was up all night.
When he returned to his car, he kept going through all the places in which he had seen her, all her words, and in his imagination, making his heart die, there were pictures of a possible future.
When he left the car in Petersburg, he felt alive and fresh after a sleepless night, like after a cold bathtub.
He stopped by his car waiting for her to leave.
"I'll see her again," he said to himself, smiling involuntarily, "I'll see her walk, her face; he'll say something, turn his head, look, smile, maybe."
But before he saw her, he saw her husband, whom the station manager politely led between the crowd.
"Oh, yes! "Her husband!"
Now it was only for the first time that he understood clearly that the husband was related to her.
He knew that she had a husband but did not believe in his existence and believed fully in him only when he saw him, with his head, shoulders, and legs in black pantalons; especially when he saw the husband take her hand with a sense of ownership.
When he saw Alexey Alexandrovich with his peterburger face and a highly confident figure, with a round hat, with a slightly outstanding back, he believed in him and felt an unpleasant feeling, like a man who was thirsty and came to the source and found a dog, a sheep, or a pig in that source, who had also drank and bashed water.
Alexey Alexandrovich's walk, with all his pelvis and stupid legs, especially insulted him. He only recognized for himself the absolute right to love her.
But she was still the same; and her kind still, physically reanimating, exhilarating, and filling his soul with happiness, affected him.
He ordered a second-class German lacey runner to pick up his things and drive, and he came to her.
He saw the husband's first meeting with his wife and noticed with the insight of the lover a sign of a slight shyness with which she spoke to her husband.
"No, she does not love and cannot love him," he decided with himself.
Even as he approached Anna Arkadievna from behind, he noted with joy that she felt his approach and looked back and, after learning him, turned to her husband again.
'Did you have a good night?' 'He said, bowing before her and before his husband together, and letting Alexey Alexandrovich take this bow on his account and get to know him or not know what he would like.'
'Thank you very well,' she replied.
Her face seemed tired, and there was no game on him that threw it into the smile and into the eyes of the recovery; but for one moment when she looked at him, something shone in her eyes, and despite the fact that the fire was now dead, he was happy with that moment.
She looked at her husband to see if he knew Vronsky.
Alexei Alexandrovich looked down at him with displeasure, reminiscently remembering who he was.
Vronsky's calmness and self - confidence here, like a goat on a rock, came upon the cold self - confidence of Alexey Alexandrovich.
'The Count of Wronsky,' said Anna.
'Ah!
We know each other, I think,' said Alexi Alexandrovich indifferently, giving up his hand. 'There she went with her mother and back with her son,' he said, speaking clearly as a ruble of every word. 'You're from vacation, aren't you? 'He said, and without waiting for the answer, turned to his wife with his jesting tone, 'Well, how many tears were shed in Moscow when they were separated?'
In his appeal to his wife, he made him feel that he wanted to be alone, and turned to him and touched his hat; but he turned to Anna Arkadievna:
'I hope to have the honour to be with you,' he said.
Alexey Alexandrovich took a tired look at Wronsky.
'It is very good,' he said, cold, 'we accept on Mondays. 'Then, by letting him go, he said to his wife, 'And how good it was that I had half an hour to meet you, and that I could show you my tenderness,' he continued with the same joke tone.
'You've already stressed your tenderness too much for me to appreciate,' she said, with the same joke tone, involuntarily listening to the sound of the steps of Wronsky following them.
"But what's in it for me?" 'She thought and began to ask her husband how she spent her time with Serezha without her.'
'Oh, great!
Mariette says he was very nice and... I should disappoint you... not as much as your husband did.
But once again, my friend, who gave me the day.
Our lovely samurai will be thrilled...
(He himself called the famous Countess Lydia Ivanovna because she was always worried and excited about everything.)
She asked about you.
And you know, if I dare to advise you, you'd go see her today.
'Cause she's got a heartache about everything.
She is now, apart from all her troubles, engaged in reconciliation of the Oblons.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna was a friend of her husband and the center of one of the peterburgs with whom Anna was closest to the husband.
'Cause I wrote to her.
'But she needs everything in detail.
Go if you're not tired, my friend.
Well, Condratia's gonna give you the carriage, and I'm gonna go to the committee.
I won't have lunch alone again,' he went on with a joke tone. 'You wouldn't believe how used I am to...'
And when he squeezed her hand for a long time, with a very special smile, he put her in the carriage.
The first person to meet Anna at home was a son.
He ran upstairs to her in spite of a governess screaming, and he was so excited to say, "Mommy, mom!"
When he got to her, he hung around her neck.
'I told you that Mother!' he cried to the governess. 'I knew it!
And the son, like the husband, made a sense of disappointment in Anna.
She imagined him better than he really was.
She had to go down to reality to enjoy him like this, okay-- he was a cow.
But also as he was, he was adorable with his blonde cruds, blue eyes, and full of thin legs in tight stockings.
Anna enjoyed almost physically the feeling of intimacy and affection and moral calm when she met his simple, trusting, loving eyes and listened to his naive questions.
Anna brought out the gifts that Dolly's children sent and told her son what a young girl Tanya is in Moscow and how Tanya can read and teach even other children.
'What, am I worse than her?' 'Serezha asked.'
'It's better for me than anyone else in the world.
'I know that,' said Serezha, smiling.
Anna hadn't had time to get her coffee before she was reported to Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna was a tall, full woman with an unhealthy yellow face and beautiful thoughtful black eyes.
Anna loved her, but today it's like she saw her for the first time with all her flaws.
'Well, my friend, have the olive branch been torn down?' 'Ask the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, just entered the room.
'Yes, it was all over, but it wasn't as important as we thought,' Anna replied. 'In fact, my belle soeur is too determined.'
But Countess Lydia Ivanovna, who had never touched anyone before her, had the habit of never listening to what she was interested in; she interrupted Anna.
'Yes, a lot of grief and evil in the world, and I am so exhausted today.
'Why? 'I asked Anna, trying to keep her smile.'
'I'm starting to get tired of smashing copies for the truth, and sometimes I'm all over the place.
The case of the sisters (it was a philanthropy, a religious-patriotic institution) went well, but nothing can be done with these gentlemen,' added Countess Lydia Ivanovna with a mocking submission to fate. 'They grasped the thought, disfigured it, and then discussed so little and little.'
Two or three people, including your husband, understand the meaning of this case, and others just drop it.
Trudine writes to me yesterday...
The truth was a famous panslavist abroad, and Countess Lydia Ivanovna described the contents of the letter.
The Countess then spoke of other troubles and plots against the connection of churches and left in haste, as she had to be at a meeting of a certain society and in the Slavian Committee on that day.
"But why have I not seen this before? 'Anna said to herself. 'Or is it very pissed off these days?'
In fact, it's funny: the purpose of virtue, she's a Christian, and she's all angry with her enemies and all the enemies of Christianity and virtue."
After Countess Lydia Ivanovna came a friend, the director's wife, and told all the city news.
At three o'clock, she left, promised to come to dinner.
Alexei Alexandrovich was at the Ministry.
Left alone, Anna took time to attend her son's lunch (he had lunch separately) and to clean up her belongings, read and respond to the notes and letters that she had gathered on her desk.
The sense of inexcusable shame she felt dearly, and the excitement completely disappeared.
Under normal living conditions, she felt strong and impeccable again.
She was surprised to remember her condition yesterday.
"What was it?
Holmes said a stupid thing that was easy to stop, and I answered it the way I had to.
You don't and you don't have to talk to your husband about it.
Talking about it means attaching importance to things that don't have it."
She recalled how she described the almost confession made to her in Petersburg by her husband's young subordinate, and how Aleksei Alexandrovich replied that, living in light, any woman could be subjected to it, but that he trusted her with a proper manner and would never allow himself to be humiliated by her and himself into jealousy.
"You don't have to say anything, do you?
Yes, thank God, and there's nothing to say,' she said to herself.
Aleksey Alexandrovich returned from the Ministry at four o'clock, but as was often the case, he did not have time to enter her.
He went to the office to receive the pending applicants and to sign some of the papers submitted by the head of the files.
An old cousin, Alexey Alexandrovich, director of the department with his wife, and a young man who had been recommended to Alexei Alexandrovich for service, arrived at the luncheon (always three people at the Karenni's house).
Anna went into the living room to borrow them.
At exactly five o'clock Peter I &apos; s bronze clock was not able to finish his fifth strike, when he came out in a white tie and a freckle with two stars because he had to go this afternoon.
Every minute of Alexei Alexandrovich's life was occupied and distributed. And in order to do what he had to do every day, he was very careful.
"Without haste and without rest," was his motto.
He entered the hall, bowed with everyone, and sat down in haste, smiling at his wife.
'Yes, my privacy is over.
You're not gonna believe how embarrassing it is to have lunch alone.
At lunch, he spoke to his wife about Moscow's affairs with a laughing smile asking about Stepan Arkadyić; but the conversation was mostly general, about Peterburg's official and public affairs.
After lunch, he spent half an hour with his guests and, again with a smile, shook his wife's hand, went out and left for the council.
Anna did not go this time to Princess Betsy Tverska, who, after learning of her arrival, called her tonight, nor to the theater where she now had a bed.
She didn't go primarily because the dress she was counting on wasn't ready.
In fact, after her guests left with her toilet, Anna was very annoyed.
Before she left for Moscow, she wasn't very expensive to dress, and she gave three dresses to a fashionist.
The dress had to be redecorated so they couldn't be recognized and they had to be ready three days ago. Turns out two dresses weren't ready at all, and one wasn't what Anna wanted.
Modist came to explain, claiming that it would be better, and Anna got so excited that she was ashamed to remember later.
To calm down, she went to the nursery and spent the evening with her son, put him to sleep, crossed him and covered him with a blanket.
She was glad she didn't go anywhere and had such a good night.
She felt so lightly and calmly, so clearly she saw that all that seemed to her on the railroad was just one of the usual pitiful times of secular life, and that she had nothing to be ashamed of herself or anyone.
Anna sat down at the fireplace with an English novel and waited for her husband.
At exactly half past ten, he heard his call, and he walked into the room. 'At last you!' she said, reaching out to him.
He kissed her hand and hooked up with her.
'In fact, I can see that your trip was successful,' he said to her.
'Yes, very,' she answered, and began to tell him at first: her journey with Vronskoi, her trip, her accident with the railway.
Then I told her how sorry I was for my brother first, then Dolly.
'I do not think it is possible to apologise to such a man, even though he is your brother,' said Alexis Alexandrovich strictly.
Anna smiled.
She realized that he had said that precisely to show that related considerations could not stop him from expressing his sincere opinion.
She knew that line in her husband and loved her.
'I am glad that it ended well and that you have come,' he continued. 'Well, what do they say about the new position I held on the council?
Anna heard nothing about this situation, and she became ashamed that she could easily forget what was so important to him.
'Here, on the contrary, it made a lot of noise,' he said with a smug smile.
She saw that Alexei Alexandrovich wanted to tell her something nice about this case, and she asked him questions about it.
He spoke with the same smug smile about the ovations that had been made to him as a result of that situation.
'I was very, very pleased.
This proves that we are finally beginning to have a reasonable and firm view of the matter.
After having finished his second cup of tea with cream and bread, Alexis Alexandrovich got up and went to his office.
'And you didn't go anywhere; you were bored, weren't you? 'He said.'
'Oh, no!' she answered, standing up after him and walking him through the room into the office. 'What are you reading now? 'She asked.'
'Now I read Duc de Lille, "Poese des enfers", he replied. 'Very wonderful book.
Anna smiled as she smiled at the weaknesses of loved ones, and by putting her hand under him, she led him to the door of the office.
She knew his habit of reading in the evening.
She knew that, despite having absorbed almost all of his duties, he felt obliged to look after all the wonderful things that had appeared in the mental sphere.
She also knew that he was really interested in books, political, philosophical, religious, that the art was completely alien to him in nature, but that, despite that, or better because of it, he did not miss anything that made a noise in that area and felt obliged to read everything.
She knew that, in the fields of politics, philosophy, and theology, Aleksandrovich doubted or sought; but in the field of art and poetry, especially music, of which he was completely devoid of understanding, he had certain and firm opinions.
He liked to talk about Shakespeare, Rafael, Beethoven, the importance of new schools of poetry and music, all of which were distributed with very clear sequences.
'Well, God is with you,' she said at the door of the office, where an abajoir had already been prepared for him on a candle and a Countess of Water by the chair. 'And I will write to Moscow.
He shook her hand and kissed her again.
'He is still a good man, truthful, kind and wonderful in her field,' said Anna to herself, returning to herself, as if defending him in front of someone who accused him and said that he could not be loved. 'But what is it that his ears are giving out so strangely!
Or did he cut his hair?"
Exactly at 12 o'clock, while Anna was still sitting at the writing table, writing a letter to Dolly, the smooth steps in her shoes were heard, and Alexi Alexandrovich, washed up, brushed, with a book under her arm, approached her.
'It is time, it is time,' he said, especially smiling, and went into the bedroom.
"What right did he have to look at him like that?" 'I thought Anna, remembering the look of Vronski at Alexei Alexandrovich.'
When she was undressed, she entered the bedroom, but not only was her face not reeling from her eyes and smiles in Moscow; on the contrary, the fire now seemed to have been put out in it or hidden far away.
XXXIV
On leaving Petersburg, Wronsky left his large apartment at the Seaman's friend and his beloved friend Petritzka.
Petritzka was a young sponsor, not only a noble and not only a rich man, but a circle in debt, always drunk by the evening, and often for different and funny and filthy stories, who came to the Gauptwacht, but loved by his comrades and superiors.
Upon arriving at 12 o'clock from the railway to his apartment, he saw a carriage familiar to him at the entrance.
He heard men laughing at his doorbell and laughing at the woman's voice and screaming, "If any of the villains are evil, don't let them go!"
The daykeeper didn't tell him to talk about himself and slowly entered the first room.
Baroness Shelton, a friend of Petrisky's, sat in front of a round table, a cup of coffee, as a canary, filling the room with her Paris talk.
Petritzka was wearing a coat and a company of Kamerovsky in full shape, probably from the service, sitting around her.
'Bravo!
Vronsky!-- Petrisky screamed, jumping and greasy with a chair. 'The master himself!
Baroness, coffee from his new coffee pot.
Didn't expect it!
I hope you're happy with the adornment of your office,' he said, pointing to the Baroness. 'You know each other, don't you?
'Of course!' said Vronsky, smiling funly and shaking a small baroness pen. 'Oh, yes! He's an old friend.
'You're home from the road,' said the Baroness, 'I'm running.
Ah, I'll leave right away if I'm interrupting.
'You are home where you are, Baroness,' said Wronsky. 'Hello, Kamerovsky,' he added, shaking the hand of Kamerovsky coldly.
'You never know how to say such beautiful things,' said the Baroness to Petritz.
'No, why not?
I'll tell you as much after lunch as I can.
'In the afternoon, there is no merit! Well, I'll give you some coffee, go wash up and get out of here,' said the Baroness, again sitting down and caressingly turning a wine in a new coffee pot. 'Pier, give me some coffee,' she turned to Petritsky, whom she called Pierre, by his name, Petritzki, without hiding her relationship with him. 'I'll add.
'Cause you're gonna mess it up.
'No, I won't!
Well, what about your wife? 'Yes,' said the Baroness all of a sudden, interrupting his conversation with his companion. 'We married you here.
Did you bring your wife?
'No, Baroness.
I'm born a gypsy and I'm gonna die a gypsy.
'The better, the better.
Give me your hand.
And the Baroness, while not letting him go, began to tell him, by kidding, her latest life plans and asking for his advice.
'He still doesn't want to divorce me!
What am I supposed to do?
(He was her husband.)
I want to start the process now.
How would you advise me?
Kamerovsky, look, after the coffee -- he's gone; you see, I'm busy!
I want the process because I need my condition.
Do you understand this stupidity that I seem to be wrong to him,' she said with contempt,' and that's why he wants to use my property.
He listened with pleasure to this hilarious babbling of a pretty woman, tempting her, giving her half-sympathetic advice, and, in general, immediately accepted his usual tone of dealing with this kind of woman.
In his Peterburg world, all people were divided into two completely opposite varieties.
One lower class: naughty, silly and, above all, funny people who believe that one husband has to live with one wife with whom he is married, that the girl has to be innocent, that the woman has to be ashamed, that the man is manly, that he has to care for his children, that he has to earn his bread, that he has to pay his debts -- and that there are a lot of such stupidities.
It was a class of old-fashioned and funny people.
But there was another kind of people, the real ones, to which they all belonged, in which you have to be, above all, elegant, beautiful, generous, brave, funny, giving up all your passions not red, and laughing at everything else.
Only at the very first minute he was stunned by the impressions of a whole other world brought by him from Moscow, but at once, as if he had put his feet in old shoes, he entered his former merry and pleasant world.
The coffee never boiled, but sprayed everyone and left and produced exactly what was needed, i.e., it caused noise and laughter, and it poured down an expensive carpet and a baroness dress.
'Well, goodbye now, or you will never wash yourself, and my conscience will be the chief crime of a decent man, impurity.
So you're recommending a knife to your throat?
'Absolutely, and in such a way that your pen is closer to his lips.
"He will kiss your pen, "and it will end well," he replied.
'So today in French!' And with the noise of her dress, she disappeared.
Kamerovsky, too, went up, and while he was not waiting for him to leave, gave him his hand and went to the bathroom.
While he was washing, Petritzki briefly described his situation to him, as it had changed since the departure of Vronski.
There's no money.
My father said he wouldn't give or pay the debts.
The tailor wants to go to jail, and the other one's gonna go to jail, too.
The Colonel's commander has announced that if these scandals don't stop, we have to get out.
Baroness is annoying as a bitter radish, especially because everyone wants to give money; and there's one, he's gonna show it to Wronsky, a miracle, a beauty, an Eastern strict style, "Genre the slave Rebecca, you know."
Berkoshev broke up with him yesterday, and he wanted to send out seconds, but, of course, it's not gonna work.
It's actually great and it's a lot of fun. And by not allowing a comrade to go into the details of his situation, Petritzki went out to tell him all the interesting news.
Listening to Petersky's familiar stories in this familiar setting of his three - year - old apartment, Wronsky felt a pleasant sense of returning to normal and carefree Peterburg life.
'No way! 'He cried out, letting go of the washer pedal, to which he poured his red, healthy neck.' 'No way!' he cried at the news that Laura had joined Mileev and left Fertingoff. 'And he is still silly and happy?'
Well, what about Buzulukov?
'Oh, there was a story with Buzulukov -- adorable! 'Cause his passion is balls, and he doesn't miss a single court ball.
He went to a big ball in a new helmet.
Have you seen the new helmets? Very good, easier.
Just as long as he's...
No, you listen.
'Yes, I am listening,' replied Wronsky, rubbing his furry towel.
'The great princess is going through with some ambassador, and in his trouble they are talking about new helmets. The great princess wanted to show the new helmet...
They see our darling's standing.
(Petrickian pictured him standing with a casca.) The great princess asked to serve herself a helmet, &quot; he won &apos; t give &quot;.
What is it?
He's the only one blinking, nodding, frowning.
Give it to me.
It doesn't. I'm freezing.
Can you imagine...
Only this one... like his... wants to take his helmet... doesn't give a damn!
He ripped it out, served it to the great princess.
"This is the new one," says the great princess. I turned my helmet, and you can imagine, from there, booze! Pears, candy, two pounds of candy!
He picked it up, love!
Vronsky was laughing. And then for a long time, to mention another, he would roll up with his healthy laugh, putting out his strong, solid teeth when he remembered the helmet.
Upon learning all the news, he dressed himself in his uniform with a footman and went to show up.
When he appeared, he intended to visit his brother, Betsy, and make several visits to start going to the world where he could meet Karenina.
As always in Petersburg, he left the house in order not to return until late in the night.
PART SECOND
At the end of the winter, a conference was held at the Shcherbatsky home to decide on Kitty's state of health and what needs to be done to restore her weakening forces.
She was sick, and as spring approached, her health deteriorated.
The home doctor gave her fish oil, then iron, then laspies, but since neither of them helped, and because he advised her to go abroad from spring, a famous doctor was invited.
A famous doctor, not old, a very handsome man, asked for a medical examination.
He seemed particularly pleased to insist that maiden shame was only the rest of barbarism and that there was nothing more natural than an old man feeling a young naked girl.
He found it natural because he did it every day and felt nothing and did not think what he thought was bad, so he felt shame in the girl not only as a remnant of barbarism, but also as an insult to himself.
I had to submit, because even though all the doctors were in the same school, in the same books, they knew the same science, and even though some said that this famous doctor was a bad doctor, in the Princess's house and in her circle, it was somehow recognized that this famous doctor alone knew something special and that one could save Kitty.
After a careful examination and a knocking, confused and ashamed, the ill famous doctor, carefully washed his hands, stood in the living room and spoke to the Prince, frowning, listening to the doctor.
He, as a living, not stupid or sick man, did not believe in medicine and was angry with the whole comedy, especially since he was hardly alone in understanding the cause of Kitty's illness. 'It's nothing,' he thought, applying the name from the hunting dictionary to the famous doctor and listening to him talk about the signs of his daughter's illness.
In the meantime, the doctor had difficulty in holding the expression of contempt for this old barich and had difficulty coming down to a low level of understanding of him.
He understood that he had nothing to say to the old man and that the head of the house was the mother.
He intended to smash his bead in front of her.
At that time, the Princess entered the living room with a home doctor.
The Prince walked away, trying not to let him see how funny the whole comedy was.
The Princess was confused and did not know what to do.
She felt guilty about Kitty.
'Well, doctor, decide our fate,' said the Princess. 'Tell me everything. -- "Is there any hope?" 'She wanted to say, but her lips trembled, and she could not speak this question.' 'Well, Doctor?'
'Now, Princess, I will speak with a colleague and then have the honour to inform you of my opinion.'
'So shall we leave you?'
'As you wish.
The Princess took a breath and came out.
When the doctors were left alone, the home doctor shyly expressed his opinion that there was a beginning to the tuberculosis process, but... et cetera.
The famous doctor listened to him and in the middle of his speech looked at his big gold watch.
'Well,' he said. 'But...
Home doctor shut up respectfully in the middle of a speech.
'We cannot determine, as you know, the beginning of the tuberculosis process; there is nothing specific until the cauren has arrived. But we can suspect.
And there's an indication: bad nutrition, nervous excitement, and so forth.
The question is: In the suspicion of the tuberculosis process, what must be done to sustain the diet?
'But, you know, there's always a moral, spiritual reason behind this,' with a subtle smile, allowed himself to insert a home doctor.
'Yes, it goes without saying,' answered the famous doctor, looking again at the clock. 'It is my fault; what, is the Jauz bridge in place, or do we still have to go around?' 'He asked.' 'Ah! Yes, sir.
Yeah, well, I can be there in 20 minutes.
So what we said was that the question was to support the food and fix the nerves.
One in connection with the other, we have to act on both sides of the circle.
'But a trip abroad?' 'I asked the house doctor.'
'I am the enemy of travel abroad.
And you can see that if there's a tuberculosis process that we don't know, going abroad isn't gonna help.
There is a need for a means that sustains food and does not harm.
And the famous doctor laid out his plan for the treatment of Sodenian waters, whose primary purpose was obviously that they could not be damaged.
The home doctor listened carefully and respectfully.
'But in favor of travel abroad, I would make a change in habits, a departure from the conditions that give rise to memories.'
And then my mother wanted it,' he said.
'Ah! Well, in this case, well, let them go; only those German charlatans will get hurt...
I need you to listen...
Well, let them go.
He looked at the watch again.
'Oh! 'It is time,' went to the door.
The famous doctor announced to the Princess that he needed to see the patient again.
'How! I'm gonna have to go over it again!-- and my mother screamed with horror.
'Oh, no, I have some details, Princess.
'We beseech you.'
And the mother, accompanied by the doctor, walked into Kitty's living room.
Keith was standing in the middle of the room with a special radiance in her eyes because of the shame she had suffered.
When the doctor came in, she flashed up, and her eyes were filled with tears.
All her illness and treatment seemed so stupid, even funny!
Her treatment seemed as funny as making pieces of broken vase.
Her heart was broken.
What do they want to treat her with pills and powders?
But the mother could not be insulted, especially since the mother felt guilty.
'Try to sit down, Princess,' said the famous doctor.
He smiled at her, took a pulse, and started doing boring questions again.
She answered him, and suddenly, angry, she stood up.
'Excuse me, Doctor, but this, right, will not lead to anything.
You ask me the same thing three times.
The famous doctor wasn't offended.
'A painful irritation,' he said to the Princess when Kitty came out. 'Of course, I've come...'
And the doctor in front of the princess, as before an extremely clever woman, scientifically determined the princess's position and concluded by teaching her how to drink water that was not needed.
To the question of whether to go abroad, the doctor began to reflect on how to resolve a difficult issue. The decision was finally made: to go and not believe the charlatans, but to turn to him in everything.
It's like something fun happened after the doctor left. My mother laughed when she went back to her daughter, and Kitty pretended she was having fun.
She often, almost always, had to pretend now.
'Really, I'm healthy, maman.
But if you want to go, let's go!' she said and, trying to show that she was interested in the upcoming trip, she started talking about getting ready to leave.
Dolly came after the doctor.
She knew that there should be a concilium on that day, and even though she had recently risen from childbirth (she had given birth to a girl at the end of winter), despite having had a great deal of grief and concern, she, leaving a baby and a sick girl, had come to know about Kitty's fate, which was now being resolved.
'Well, what?' she said, entering the living room without taking off her hats. 'You're all funny.
Right, okay?
They tried to tell her what the doctor said, but it turns out that although the doctor spoke very well and for a long time, there was no way to pass on what he said.
What was interesting was that it was decided to go abroad.
Dolly sighed involuntarily.
Her best friend, sister, was leaving. And her life wasn't fun.
Relations with Stepan Arkadiyić became humiliating after reconciliation.
Anna's spike was not strong, and the family agreement broke again in the same place.
There was nothing at all, but Stepan Arkadyić was almost never home, nor was there any money, and the suspicion of infidelity was constantly tormented by Dolly, and she had already driven them away, fearing the suffering of jealousy she had experienced.
The first explosion of jealousy, once experienced, could no longer return, and even the discovery of infidelity could no longer be as effective as it was the first time.
Such a discovery would now only deprive her of her family habits, and she allowed herself to be deceived by despiseing him and most of all for that weakness.
On top of that, the care of a large family tormented her unendingly, and the nursing of a child did not go on, and the babysitter went away, and now one of the children is sick.
'What, how are yours? 'The mother asked.'
'Oh, man, you have a lot of grief.
Lily's sick, and I'm afraid of Scarlatine.
Now I'm on my way to find out, or I'll sit down forever if God saves the Scarlatine.
The old prince, after the doctor's departure, also came out of his office and turned his cheek to Dolly and spoke to her, and turned to his wife:
'How did you decide to go?'
Well, what do you want to do with me?
'I think you should stay, Alexander,' said the wife.
'As you wish.
'Maman, why wouldn't Dad come with us? 'Oh, Kitty said.' 'And it is more fun for him and for us.'
The old prince stood up and ironed Kitty's hair with his hand.
She raised her face and, by force, looked at him.
She always felt that he understood her better than anyone in the family, even though he spoke little to her.
She was like her father's little favorite, and she felt that his love for her made him considerate.
When her eyes now met with his blue, kind eyes, staring at her, she felt that he could see her through and understand all the bad things that were done in her.
She, red, reached out to him, waiting for a kiss, but he just slapped her hair and said,
'These silly tires!
You don't get a real daughter, but you caress dead women's hair.
'Well, Dolinka,' he turned to his eldest daughter, 'your visor is doing what?
'Nothing, Papa,' answered Dolly, realizing that it was her husband. 'It's all going, I hardly see it,' she couldn't help but add a laughing smile.
'Well, he hasn't gone to the village to sell the woods yet?'
'No, it is.
'That's how it is!' said the prince. 'Should I get ready, too?'
He asked his wife to sit down. 'And here you are, Katya,' he added to his little daughter, 'you will one day wake up and tell yourself, 'I am very healthy and amusing, and let's go out early in the morning with Dad for a walk.'
Huh?
It seemed very simple what my father said, but Kitty got mixed up and confused like a criminal.
"Yeah, he knows everything, he understands everything, and these words tell me that I'm ashamed, but I have to get over my shame."
She couldn't stand to say anything.
She started and suddenly cried and ran out of the room.
'Here are your jokes!' the princess went after her husband. 'You always...' she began her abbreviated speech.
The Prince listened for quite a long time to the Princess's reproach and silence, but his face became more and more frowning.
'She's so pathetic, poor thing, so pathetic, and you don't feel that she's hurt by any hint of cause.
Ahh! It's so wrong to be wrong about people! 'The Princess said, and at the change of her tone, Dolly and the prince understood that she was talking about Bronsk.' 'I do not understand how there is no law against such vile, ungrateful people.'
'Oh, I wouldn't listen!' the prince said with sadness, climbing out of the chair and wanting to leave, but staying in the door. 'There are laws, Mother, and if you've called me to do this, I'll tell you who's to blame for everything: you and you, alone.
There have always been laws against such young men!
Yeah, if there wasn't something I wasn't supposed to be, I'm an old man, but I'd put him on the barrier, this grant.
Yeah, and now you treat them, take these charlatans to you.
The Prince seemed to have much more to say, but as soon as the Princess heard his tone, she immediately accepted and repented, as she had always done in serious matters.
'Alexandre, Alexandre,' she whispered, moving, and cried.
As soon as she cried, so did the prince. He approached her.
'Well, it will, it will!
It's hard for you, too, I know.
What do you want to do?
There's no big trouble.
God is merciful... be kind...' he said, not knowing what he was saying, and responding to the Princess's wet kiss he felt on his hand. And he left the room.
As soon as Kitty got out of the room in tears, Dolly, with her mother's, family habit, immediately saw that there was a woman's work ahead of her, and she was about to make it.
She took off her hat and, morally, her sleeves were ready to act.
During her mother &apos; s attack on her father, she tried to keep her mother as far as her daughter &apos; s respect permitted.
At the time of the Prince &apos; s explosion, she was silent; she felt ashamed of her mother and tenderness to her father for his now returned kindness; but when her father left, she was going to do the most important thing -- to go to Kitty and calm her.
'I wanted to tell you a long time ago, maman: do you know that Levin wanted to propose to Kitty the last time he was here?
He told Steve.
'Well?
I don't understand...
'So maybe Kitty turned him down?'
She didn't tell you?
'No, she didn't say anything about either; she's too proud.
But I know it's all about...
'Yes, imagine, if she refused Levin,' and she wouldn't have refused him if she hadn't, I know...
And then this one tricked her so badly.
The Princess was too afraid to think how much she was to blame for her daughter, and she got angry.
'Oh, I don't understand anything!
Now they want their minds to live, their mothers don't say anything, and then...
'Maman, I will go to her.
'Come on.
Do I forbid you? 'Mom said.'
Going into Kitty's little office, pretty, pink, with dolls of viux saxe, a room just as young, pink and funny as Kitty herself two months ago, Dolly remembered how they cleaned this room together last year, with what fun and love they had.
She had a cold heart when she saw Kitty sitting on the bottom, near the door to the chair, and pointed her eyes at the corner of the carpet.
Kitty looked at her sister, and the cold, somewhat harsh look on her face hasn't changed.
'I shall now go away and sit at home, and you shall not be allowed to come to me,' said Daria Alexandrovna, sitting beside her. 'I want to talk to you.
'On what? 'Scared to raise his head,' asked Kitty quickly.
'What, but your grief?'
'I have no sorrow.
'All right, Kitty. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;All right, Kitty.
Do you really think I might not know?
I know everything.
And trust me, it's so pathetic...
We've all been through this.
Kitty was silent, and her face had a strict expression.
'He is not worth it for you to suffer because of him,' he continued, being directly involved in the matter.
'Yes, because he ignored me,' said Kitty with a snoring voice. 'Don't say it!
Please don't tell me!
'Who told you that?
No one said that.
Am I sure? That he was in love with you and stayed in love, but...
'Oh, those condolences are the worst for me!' cried Kitty, suddenly angry.
She turned on the chair, blushed, and moved her fingers quickly, compressing that toy with the other hand of the belt buckle she held.
Dolly knew the sister's way of intercepting with her hands when she was hot; she knew how Kitty was able to forget at a moment of hotness and say a lot of unnecessary and unpleasant things, and Dolly wanted to calm her down; but it was too late.
'What, what do you want me to feel, what? 'Cause Kitty said quickly. 'That I was in love with a man who didn't want to know me, and that I am dying of love for him?'
And that's what my sister tells me, who thinks that... that... that she's gonna be sorry!
I don't want those regrets and pretendings!
'Kiti, you are unjust.
'Why are you tormenting me?
'Yes, on the contrary, I can see that I'm upset.'
But Kitty didn't hear her in her heat.
'There is nothing for me to break down and to comfort myself.'
I'm so proud I'll never let myself love a man who doesn't love me.
'I'm not saying...'
One thing: 'Tell me the truth,' said she, taking her hand, Daria Alexandrovna, 'tell me, Levin told you? '
The mention of Levin seemed to have deprived Kitty of her last self - control; she jumped up from the chair and, throwing a buckle to the ground and making quick gestures with her hands, said,
'Why else is Levin here?'
I don't understand why you have to torture me.
I said and repeat that I am proud and never, ever will I do what you do -- to return to the man who cheated on you, who loved another woman.
I don't understand, I don't understand!
You can, and I can't!
And when she said those words, she looked at her sister, and when she saw that Dolly was silent, sadly lowering her head, Kitty, instead of leaving the room as intended, sat by the door, and closed her face with a handkerchief, she lowered her head.
The silence lasted two minutes.
Dolly was thinking about herself.
The humiliation she had always felt was particularly painful when her sister reminded her of it.
She did not expect such cruelty from her sister and was angry with her.
But all of a sudden, she heard the sound of a dress and together the sound of a low-key cry, and someone's hands at the bottom hugged her neck. Kitty was kneeling in front of her.
'Listen, I am so, so unhappy!' she whispered her guilt.
And a lovely face covered in tears hid in the skirt of Darya Alexandrovna's dress.
It was as if the tears were the necessary ointment without which the machine of communication between the two sisters could not pass successfully -- the sisters, after the tears, talked not about what occupied them; but, speaking of outsiders, they understood each other.
Kitty realized that the word she had spoken in her hearts about her husband's infidelity and about humiliation to the depths of her heart had struck the poor sister, but that she had forgiven her. Dolly, for her part, understood everything she wanted to know; she was convinced that her conjectures were true, that the grief, the incurable mountain of Kitty was precisely that Levin proposed and that she refused him, and that Wronsky lied to her, and that she was ready to love Levin and hate Wronski.
Kitty didn't say a word about it; she only talked about her mental state.
'I have no sorrow,' she said, calmed down, 'but can you understand that I have become sick, disgusting, rude, and above all myself?
You can't imagine how nasty I feel about everything.
'What nasty thoughts can you have?' 'I asked Dolly, smiling.'
'The worst, the worst and the worst; I can't tell you.'
It's not boredom, it's much worse.
It's like everything that's been good in me has all been hidden, and there's just one more nasty thing left.
Well, what do you say? 'She continued, seeing the confusion in her sister's eyes. 'Father's talking to me now... I think he only thinks I need to get married.
My mom's taking me to the ball, and I think she's only taking me to get married and get rid of me.
I know it's not true, but I can't help it.
I can't see the so-called fiancées.
I think they're picking me up.
Before I went out in a ball dress, it was just a pleasure to see myself; now I'm ashamed, embarrassed.
Well, whatever you want!
Doctor... well...
Kitty went on to say that, since the change had occurred to her, Stepan Arkadić had become insufferably hostile to her and that she could not see him without an idea of the worst and most ugly.
'Yes, everything seems to me in a most rude, nasty way,' she continued. 'This is my disease.
Maybe it'll go away...
'Don't you think...'
'I can't.
Only children make me feel good, only you.
'I wish you could be with me.'
'No, I'll come.
I had a Scarlatine, and I'm gonna ask for a maman.
Kitty insisted on her own and moved in with her sister and all the Scarlatine who really came to take care of the children.
Both sisters left safely for all six children, but Kitty's health did not recover and the great post of Shcherbatsky went abroad.
The Petersburg highest circle is one; everyone knows each other, even travels to each other.
But there are units in this big circle.
Anna Arkadievna Karenina had friends and close ties in three different circles.
One circle was her husband &apos; s official circle, which consisted of his co-workers and subordinates, bound and separated in a variety of ways and in a whimsical manner in the public setting.
Anna now found it difficult to recall the feeling of almost godly respect she had for those individuals at first.
Now she knew them all as she knew each other in the county city; she knew who had the habits and the weaknesses, who had the boots, who had the foot, who knew their relationship to each other and to the main center, who was behind whom and how and who was holding, and who came together with whom and in what they differed; but this circle of government, men's interests never, despite the revelations of the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, could interest her, she avoided him.
Another of Anna &apos; s closest circles was that through which Alexis Alexandrovich made his career.
The center of this circle was Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
It was a circle of old, ugly, virtuous and pious women and smart, academic, ambitious men.
One of the smart people who belonged to this mug called it "the council of Peterburg society."
Alexey Alexandrovich was very fond of this mug, and Anna, who was so good at dealing with everyone, found her friends in the early days of her Peterburg life and in this circle.
Now, on her return from Moscow, this club became unbearable to her.
She felt that she and all of them were pretending, and she was so bored and embarrassed in this society that she went as much as possible to Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
The third circle, where she finally had connections, was the light itself -- the light of balls, of lunches, of shiny toilets, of light held by one hand outside the yard so as not to go down to the middle of the day, which the members of that circle thought they were contemptible, but with which he had not only similar but same tastes.
Her association with this circle was through Princess Betsy Tversky, the wife of her cousin, who had a hundred and twenty thousand incomes and who, since Anna's arrival in the world, had especially loved her, cared for her and dragged her into her circle, laughing at the Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'When I'm old and bad, I'll do the same,' Betsy said, 'but for you, for a young, pretty woman, it's too early to enter this rich place.
Anna initially avoided this light as much as she could, the Princess of Tverska, because he demanded more than her money, and she preferred the first; but after a trip to Moscow, she did the opposite.
She avoided her moral friends and traveled into the great world.
There, she met him and felt the exciting joy of these meetings.
She met more often than not at Betsy's house, which was a born Vronsky and his cousin.
He was everywhere he could meet Anna and told her when he could about his love.
She did not give him any excuse, but every time she met him, the very sense of recovery that came upon her that day in the wagon, when she first saw him, lit up in her soul.
She herself felt that when she saw his joy glowing in her eyes and wrinkling her lips with a smile, and she could not strangle the expression of that joy.
For the first time, Anna sincerely believed that she was displeased with them for allowing herself to pursue her; but soon after returning her from Moscow, when she came to the evening where she thought she would meet him and he was gone, she clearly understood that she was lying to herself, that this persecution was not only not unpleasant to her, but that it was of all interest to her life.
The famous singer sang for the second time, and the whole world was in the theater.
When he saw his chair in the front row of his cousin, he went into her bed without waiting for an intermission.
'Why didn't you come to lunch?' 'She told him.' 'I am surprised by this clairvoyant in love,' she added with a smile, so that he might hear one: 'She was not.
But come after the opera.
He took a question-and-answer look at her.
She overstepped her head. He smiled and thanked her and sat next to her.
'And as I recall your ridicule!' continued Princess Betsy, who found special pleasure in following the success of this passion. 'Where did this all go!
You're caught, my dear.
'I only wish to be caught,' he answered with his calm, good-natured smile. 'If I complain, it is only that too little has been caught to tell the truth.
I'm starting to lose hope.
'What hope can you have?' 'Betsy said, insulted for her friend,' said the entendons nous... 'but in her eyes were the lights that spoke, she was very good, and, just like him, she understood what hope he had.
'Nothing,' said Wronsky, laughing and pointing out his teeth. 'It is my fault,' he added, taking binoculars out of her hand and looking through her naked shoulder at the opposite row of bed. 'I'm afraid I'm getting ridiculous.
He knew very well that in the eyes of Betsy and all the secular people, he wouldn't risk being funny.
He knew very well that, in the eyes of those persons, the role of the poor lover of the girl and of the free woman in general could be funny; but the role of the man who had taken on a married woman and put his life in any way to engage her in adultery, that that role had something beautiful, great and could never be funny, and so he with pride and fun playing under his moustache smiled down the binoculars and looked at the cousin.
'Why didn't you come to lunch?' 'She said, admiring him.'
'That's something I need to tell you.
I've been busy, and what?
I'll give you a hundred out of a thousand... you can't guess.
I treated my husband with his wife's insult.
Yeah, right!
'Well, have you reconciled?'
'Almost.
'I need you to tell me this,' she said, getting up. 'Come to that anthrax.
'I can't; I'm going to the French theatre.
'Nilson's? 'Scaredly asked Betsy, who would never recognize Nielson from any chorus player.
'What shall we do?' I have a date there, all about this case of my peacemaking.
'Blessed are the peacekeepers, they will be saved,' said Betsy, remembering something similar she had heard from someone. 'Well, sit down, tell me what is it?
And she sat down again.
'It's a little indiscreet, but it's so sweet, it's awful to say,' he said, looking at her with laughing eyes. 'I will not say names,
'But I will guess, the better.'
'Listen, there are two fun young men coming...'
'Of course, the officers of your regiment?'
'I do not say officers who just had two breakfast young men...'
'Translate: Drinkers.'
'Maybe.
They're going to their comrade's for lunch, in the most fun mood of spirit.
And they see a pretty woman chasing them on a cart, looking back, and at least they think she's nodding them and laughing.
They're behind her, of course. They're jumping all over the place.
To their surprise, the beauty stops at the entrance of the very house they're going to.
Beauty runs up to the top floor.
They only see brown sponges from under the short voila and beautiful little legs.
'You say it with that feeling that I think you're one of those two.
'What did you tell me now?
Well, the young people go to the comrade, he's got a goodbye lunch.
Here, right, they drink, maybe extra, like they always do at goodbye dinners.
And at lunch, they ask who lives upstairs in this house.
No one knows, and only the master's footmen ask if their mamaselles live upstairs, says there's a lot of them.
After lunch, young people go to the master's office and write a letter to an unknown person. They wrote down a passionate letter, a confession, and they carry the letter upstairs to explain what the letter would not be very clear.
'Why are you telling me such disgusting things?'
'It's ringing.
So the girl comes out, they give the letter and they assure the girl that they're both so in love that they're gonna die here by the door.
The girl is perplexingly negotiating.
Suddenly, a gentleman with sausages, red like cancer, announces that no one lives in the house except his wife, and kicks them both out.
'Why do you know he has sausages, as you say?'
'Listen to this.
Now I've gone to make peace with them.
'Well, what is it?
'This is the fun part.
Turns out it's a happy generation of title counselors and title counselors.
The titular counselor is serving the-- the forehead, and I'm making peace, and what!
I assure you, Taleyran is nothing compared to me...
'What is the challenge?
'Listen...
We said, "We're desperate, we're asking for forgiveness for an unfortunate misunderstanding."
The titular counselor with sausage starts to melt, but he wants to express his feelings, too, and as soon as he starts to express them, so he gets hot and rude, and again I have to let all my diplomatic talents in.
"I agree that their actions are not good, but I ask you to take into account misunderstanding, youth; then the young people only had breakfast.
You understand.
They ask forgiveness for their sins."
"I agree, Count, and I'm willing to forgive, but you know that my wife, my wife, an honest woman, is being persecuted, rude and vulgar by some boys, disgusting..."
You know, this kid's here, and I need to make peace with them. I'm running my diploma again, and again, once the case is settled, my title counselor is hot, red, sausages are rising, and again I'm spilling in diplomatic nuances. 'Oh, this must be told to you! 'Laughing, she turned Betsy to the lady who was in her bed.' 'He made me laugh so much.
'Well, bonne chess,' she added, adding, by giving the Bronsk finger free of fan holding and the movement of its shoulders by lowering the raised bra of dresses in order to be quite naked when it comes forward, to the ramp, to the light of gas, and to all eyes.
He went to the French theatre, where he really needed to see a regimental commander who hadn't missed a single performance at the French theatre in order to talk to him about his peacekeeping, which had occupied and amused him for the third day.
The case involved Petritzki, whom he loved, and another, recently arrived, a glorious little fellow, a young prince of Kedrov.
Most importantly, the regiment's interests were involved.
Both were in the Vronsky squadron.
The regimental commander was visited by an official, the title counselor Wenden, with a complaint against his officers, who were an oss-- torturing his wife.
His young wife, Wenden said, 'He was married for six months,' was in the church with her mother and, suddenly feeling ill from a known situation, could no longer stand and drove home in the first luxurious car she had seen.
There were officers chasing her, she got scared, and she got sicker and ran up the stairs.
Wenden himself, when he returned from his presence, heard a call and some voices, went out and, when he saw the drunken officers with the letter, pushed them out.
He asked for severe punishment.
'No, as you wish,' said the regimental commander, inviting him to his place, 'Peteritzki is becoming impossible.
It's not a week without a story.
This official won't leave his case, he'll move on.
Vronsky saw all the impropriety of this case and that there's no way that there's a duel here, that everything needs to be done to lighten this title counselor and get it over with.
The Colonel's commander called out to him precisely because he knew him for a noble and intelligent man and, above all, for a man who cherishes the honor of the regiment.
They pushed and decided to go to Petritsky and Cedrova with Vronski to apologize to this title counselor.
The Colonel's commander and the Wronski both understood that the name of the Vronsky and the Vulgil Adjutant should contribute greatly to the easing of the title counselor. Indeed, these two means proved to be partially valid; but the result of the reconciliation remained questionable, just as Vronsky had said.
Upon arriving at the French theatre, he withdrew with a regimental commander in the foyer and told him his success or failure.
After considering everything, the regimental commander decided to leave the case without consequences, but then, for the sake of pleasure, he began to inquire into the details of his date and couldn't resist laughing for a long time, listening to the story of Vronski about how the quiet title counselor suddenly burned again, reminiscent of the details of the case, and how Vronski, in his last half-word of reconciliation, rebounded, pushing Petritzk forward.
'Bad story, but hilarious.
Cedrov can't fight this gentleman!
Did you get so hot? 'In laughing, he asked again.' 'And what is Claire now?'
A miracle!-- he said about a new French actress. 'No matter how much you look, every day is new...'
Only the French can do it...
Princess Betsy left the theater before the end of the last act.
She just got into her bathroom, splashed her long pale face with powder, erased her hair, and ordered tea in the big living room, as one after another began to drive the carriages to her huge house on the Great Sea.
The guests went out to the wide doorway, and the fat doorman, reading in the morning, alerting passers-by, behind the glass door of the newspaper, unsoundly opened that huge door by letting them pass by.
Almost at the same time, the hostess came in with a fresh hair and a fresh face from one door and guests from the other into a large living room with dark walls, fluffy carpets and a brightly lit table, shiny white tableterty candles, silver samurai, and a transparent china for a tea instrument.
The hostess sat down for the samurai and took off her gloves.
By moving the chairs by means of invisible lacquers, the society has been divided into two parts -- by a samovar with a mistress and at the opposite end of the living room -- near the handsome wife of the messenger in black velvet and with black sharp eyebrows.
The conversation in both centres, as always in the first few minutes, fluctuated, interrupted by meetings, greetings, a proposal for tea, as if to find a place to stay.
'She is incredibly good as an actress; it appears that she has studied Kaulbach,' said the diplomat in the minister's wife's mug, 'you have noticed how she fell...
'Oh, please, let's not talk about Nielson! 'There is nothing new to say about her,' said the fat, red, without eyebrows and without shiny hair, the blonde lady in the old silk dress.
It was Princess Soft, known for her simplicity, ill-treatment, and called enfant terrible.
Princess Softy sat in the middle between the two clubs and listened to them and took part in both. 'I've been told this very phrase about Kaulbach by three people today, and I'm sure I've conspired.
And the phrase, I don't know what, they liked it so much.
The conversation was interrupted by this comment, and a new topic had to be invented again.
'Tell us something funny, but not evil,' said the messenger's wife, the great master of fine conversation called in English small-talk, turning to a diplomat who also did not know what to begin.
'It is said that it is very difficult, that only evil is funny,' he began with a smile. 'But I will try.'
Give it to him.
It's all about the subject.
If the subject is given, it's easy to embroider.
I often think that the famous talkers of the last century would now be in difficulty speaking cleverly.
All the smart stuff is getting so tired of...
'It has long been said,' the wife of the messenger, laughing, interrupted his wife.
The conversation started nicely, but just because he was too nice, he stopped again.
We should have resorted to the right, never-changing, means of slander.
'Do you not find that there is something Louis XV in Tuskevich?' 'He said, pointing his eyes at a beautiful blond young man standing by the table.'
'Yes!
He's all the same with the living room, and that's why he's here so often.
This conversation was supported by a hint of exactly what could not be said in this living room, that is, Tuskevich's relationship with the hostess.
On the side of the samurai and the hostess, the conversation between the three inevitable themes — the last public news, the theatre, and the judgment of the neighbor — was also set in motion when it came to the last subject, i.e. slander.
'You have heard, and Malta is not a daughter, but a mother.'
'No way!
No, it's lovely!
'I wonder how her mind is,' she wasn't stupid, 'not to see how funny she is...'
Everyone had something to say in the condemnation and ridicule of the poor Maltese, and the conversation was hilarious as a bonfire.
Princess Betsy's husband, a good-natured fat man, a passionate gravel collector, found out that his wife had guests, came into the living room in front of the club.
I can't hear you on the soft carpet, he came up to Princess Soft.
'How did you like Nielson? 'He said.'
'Oh, can you sneak up on me like that?
How you scared me,' she answered. 'Don't talk to me about opera, please, you don't understand anything about music.
I'd rather go downstairs and talk to you about your mayo and gravel.
Well, what kind of treasure did you buy the other day?
Do you want me to show you?
But you don't know the use.
'Show me.
I learned from these, what their names are... bankers... they have beautiful engravings.
They showed us.
'How, have you been to Schüzburg?' 'I asked the owner of the samurai.'
'We were, ma shere.
They called me and my husband for lunch, and I was told that the sauce at this dinner was worth a thousand rubles,' said the Princess Soft loudly, feeling that everyone was listening to it, and a very nasty sauce, something green.
I should've called them, and I made eighty-five bucks sauce, and everyone was very happy.
I can't make a thousand pieces of sauce.
'She is the only one!' said the hostess.
'Awesome! 'Someone said.'
The effect of Princess Soft's speeches has always been the same, and the secret to its effect has been that it has spoken, though not entirely appropriate, as it is now, but simple things that make sense.
In the society where she lived, such words had the effect of the most witty joke.
Princess Softy couldn't understand why it was doing so, but she knew it was doing so, and she took advantage of it.
Since, during the speech of Princess Milgka, everyone listened to her and the conversation near the messenger's wife stopped, the mistress wanted to bind the whole society together and turned to the messenger's wife:
'Are you sure you don't want tea?'
You'd come to us.
'No, we are very well here,' answered the messenger's wife with a smile and continued the conversation.
The conversation was very nice.
They condemned the Karenites, the wife and the husband.
'Anna has changed a lot since her Moscow trip.
There's something weird about her,' said her friend.
'The change is the one that brought the shadow of Alexei Vronski with her,' said the messenger's wife.
'What is it?
Grimm has a story: a man without a shadow, a man without a shadow. And that's his punishment for something.
I could never figure out what the punishment was.
But a woman must be uncomfortable without a shadow.
'Yes, but women with shadows usually end badly,' said Anna's friend.
'Two times in your tongue,' said Princess Soft, all of a sudden, after hearing those words. 'Karenina is a beautiful woman.
I don't love her husband, but I love her very much.
'Why do you not love your husband?'
He is such a wonderful man,' said the messenger's wife. 'The husband says that such statesmen are few in Europe.
'And my husband tells me the same thing, but I don't believe it,' said Princess Soft. 'If our husbands hadn't spoken, we would have seen what we have, and Alexis Alexandrovich, I think, is just stupid.'
I whisper it...
Isn't it true how things are made clear?
Before, when I was told to find him smart, I searched and found that I was stupid myself without seeing his mind; but as soon as I said, "He is stupid, but whispered," it became so clear, didn't it?
'How angry you are these days!
'Nothing.'
I have no other choice.
One of us is stupid. Well, you know, you can't say that about yourself.
'No one is pleased with his wealth, and everyone is pleased with his mind,' said the diplomat of France.
'That's right,' the Princess of Softy turned to him in haste. 'But the thing is, I won't give Anna to you.
She's so sweet, honey.
What can she do if everyone is in love with her and, like shadows, follows her?
'I don't think I can judge,' Anna's friend justified herself.
'If no one follows us like a shadow, it does not prove that we have the right to condemn.
And, as it should have been, a friend of Anna's, Princess Soft got up and joined the messenger's wife in a table where there was a general discussion about the Prussian king.
'What were you talking about?' 'Ask Betsy.
'On the Karenites.
The Princess did the characterization of Alexei Alexandrovich,' answered the messenger's wife, smiling at the table.
'It's a pity we didn't hear,' said the mistress, looking at the front door. 'Ah, here you are at last!' she said with a smile to the one who came in.
Not only was he familiar with everyone, but he saw everyone he met every day, and that's why he came in with the calm receptions he had entered the room with the people he had just left.
'Where am I from? 'He answered the question of the Messenger's wife. 'What to do, I must confess.' From Buff.
I think it's a hundred times, and it's a new pleasure.
Beautiful!
I know it's embarrassing, but I sleep in the opera, and I sleep in the Buffs until the last minute, and it's fun.
Now...
He called the French actress and wanted to tell her something about her; but the messenger's wife, with hilarious horror, interrupted him:
'Please don't tell me about this horror.
'Well, I won't, especially since everyone knows these horrors.
'And everyone would have gone there if it had been as accepted as the opera,' the Princess of Soft...
There were steps at the front door, and Princess Betsy, knowing it was Karenina, took a look at Vronsky.
He looked at the door, and his face had a strange new look.
He looked at the entrance with joy, attention, and carelessness, and slowly climbed up.
Anna was in the living room. As always, by remaining extremely direct, by her swift, firm, and light step, distinguishing her from the walk of other secular women, and without changing the direction of her look, she took the few steps that separated her from the mistress, shook her hand, smiled and looked back at him.
Vronsky bowed low and moved her chair.
She only responded by tilting her head, blushing and frowned.
But immediately, noding quickly to the acquaintances and shaking hands, she turned to the mistress:
'I was at the Countess Lydia's, and I wanted to come earlier, but I sat down.
She had Sir John.
Very interesting.
'Ah, is this the missionary?
'Yes, he was very interesting about Indian life.
Once again, the conversation between us was like a blowing-out lamp.
'Sir John!
Yes, Sir John.
I saw him.
He speaks well.
Veseva is totally in love with him.
'Is it true that Vaseva is the least married to Topov?
'Yes, they say it has been decided.
'I am surprised at my parents.
They say it's a marriage of passion.
'In passion?'
What antidivular thoughts you have!
Who's talking about passion now? 'The Messenger's wife said.
'What do I do?'
This silly old fashion is still not coming out,' said Vronsky.
'The worse for those who hold on to this fashion...'
I only know happy marriages in my head.
'Yes, but how often the happiness of intelligent marriage spreads like dust, precisely because of the very passion that was not recognized,' he said.
'But we call marriage by reason when both of us have gone mad.'
It's like a Scarlatine, you have to go through it.
'Then you have to learn to inculcate love as smallpox...'
'I was in love with a girl when I was young,' said Princess Soft. 'I don't know if it helped me.
'No, I think it's no joke that in order to know love you have to make a mistake and then get better,' said Princess Betsy.
'Even after marriage?' 'Said the messenger's wife jokingly.
'It is never too late to repent,' said the diplomat of England.
'Exactly,' picked up Betsy, 'you have to make a mistake and get better.
How do you feel about that? 'She turned to Anna, who, with a slight strong smile on her lips, listened silently to the conversation.
'I think,' said Anna, playing with her glove off, 'I think... if there are so many heads, so many minds, so many hearts, so many generations of love.
He looked at Anna and waited for her to speak with the peace of her heart.
He sighed, like, after the danger, when she said those words.
Anna suddenly turned to him:
'And I received a letter from Moscow.
I'm told Kitty Scherbatsky is very sick.
'Really? 'Cause he frowned, he said.
Anna took a hard look at him.
'Are you not interested in this?'
'On the contrary, very.'
What exactly does it say to you if you can find out? 'He asked.'
Anna got up and went to Betsy.
'Give me a cup of tea,' she said, stopping behind her chair.
While Princess Betsy was pouring her tea, Wronsky approached Anna.
'What does it say to you?' 'He repeated it.
'I often think that men do not understand what is bad, but always talk about it,' said Anna, without answering him. 'I wanted to tell you a long time ago, she added and sat down at the corner table with the albums.
'I do not fully understand the meaning of your words,' he said, giving her a cup.
'Yes, I wanted to tell you,' she said, without looking at him. 'You did wrong, bad, very bad.
'Did I not know that I did wrong?'
But who's the reason I did this?
'Why are you telling me this? 'She said, looking strictly at him.'
'You know why,' he answered with courage and joy, meeting her eyes and keeping her eyes open.
Not him, she was embarrassed.
'It only proves that you have no heart,' she said.
But her eyes said she knew he had a heart, and it scared him.
'What you were just talking about was a mistake, not love.'
'You remember that I forbade you to say that word, it's a nasty word,' said Anna, grumbling; but immediately she felt that it was one word: she forbade that she had recognized certain rights to it and thus encouraged him to speak about love. 'I've been meaning to tell you this for a long time,' she continued, looking him in the eye with determination and looking at her face with all the heat of a roman, 'and today I came on purpose, knowing that I would meet you.
I'm here to tell you this is gonna end.
I've never blushed in front of anyone, and you make me feel guilty about something.
He looked at her and was struck by the new spiritual beauty of her face.
'What do you want from me? 'He said simply and seriously.'
'I want you to go to Moscow and ask for Kitty's forgiveness,' she said, and the light winked in her eyes.
'You don't want that,' he said.
He saw that she said what forced herself to say, but not what she wanted.
'If you love me as you say,' she whispered, 'then make me calm.
His face lit up.
'Don't you know you're my whole life? But I don't know, and I can't give you peace.'
All of yourself, love... yes.
I can't think about you and myself alone.
You and I are one thing.
And I see no room for calm either for myself or for you.
I see the possibility of despair, of misery... or I see the possibility of happiness, of happiness...
Isn't it possible? 'He added the same lips; but she heard.'
She made it hard for her mind to say what she had to say, but instead she stopped her eyes at him, full of love, and she didn't answer anything.
"Here it is!-- he was thrilled to think. 'When I was already desperate and when it seemed that there would be no end, here it is!
She loves me.
She'll admit it."
'So do it for me, never say these words to me, and be good friends,' she said with words; but her look was quite different.
'We won't be friends, you know that. Whether we are the happiest or the poorest of the people is in your hands.
She wanted to say something, but he interrupted her.
'Cause I ask one thing, I ask for the right to hope, to suffer as it is now; but if it is not possible, tell me to disappear, and I will disappear.
You won't see me if my presence is hard for you.
'I don't want to drive you anywhere.
'Don't change anything.
Leave it as it is,' he said with a trembling voice. 'Here's your husband.
Indeed, at that moment he entered the living room with his calm, clumsy walk.
When he looked around his wife and his wife, he went up to the mistress and sat down for a cup of tea and began to speak with his slow, always-hearing voice, in his usual joke tone, ripping over someone.
'Your Rambullier is full,' he said, looking around the whole community, 'the graces and the music.
But Princess Betsy hated that tone of his, snering as she called it, and, as a smart mistress, immediately led him to a serious conversation about common military obedience.
Alexey Alexandrovich immediately became involved in the conversation and began to defend a serious new decree in front of Princess Betsy, who attacked him.
Wronsky and Anna continued to sit at the small table.
'It's becoming indecent,' whispered a lady, pointing her eyes at Karenna, Wronsky and her husband.
'What did I tell you? 'Anna's friend answered.
But not only these ladies, almost all those who were in the living room, even Princess Soft and Betsy herself, have looked at them several times away from the common circle, as if it had prevented them from doing so.
Only Alexei Alexandrovich never looked that way and was not distracted from the interest of the conversation that had begun.
Noticed the distasteful impression, Princess Betsy put another face in her seat for Alexei Alexandrovich's hearing and approached Anna.
'I am always surprised at the clarity and accuracy of your husband's expressions,' she said. 'The most transcendent concepts become available to me when he speaks.
'Yes!' said Anna, smiling with a smile of happiness and understanding not a word of what Betsy said to her. She went to the big table and took part in a general conversation.
Aleksey Alexandrovich sat for half an hour, approached his wife and asked her to go home together; but she answered, without looking at him, that she would stay for dinner.
Alexei Alexandrovich bowed and went out.
An old, fat Tartarin, Karenna's dorm, in a glossy leather, barely kept a rogue left gray standing by the door.
The footman stood by the door.
The doorman stood by holding the outside door. Anna Arkadyevna cut off a small, fast hand of lace of a sleeve from the hook of a coat, and she overstepped her head and listened with admiration to what she had said, as she walked her out, to Wronsky.
'You didn't say anything; let's say I don't demand anything,' he said, 'but you know that it's not friendship I need, it's perhaps one happiness in life, it's a word you don't love so much... yes, love...
'Love...' she repeated slowly, with her inner voice, and suddenly, at the same time as she unwrapped the lace, added, 'because I don't like that word, that it means too much to me, much more than you can understand,' and she looked into his face. 'Goodbye!
And she gave him her hand, and a quick, firm step passed by the doorman, and fled in the carriage,
Her eyes, the touch of her hand burned him.
He kissed his hand in the place where she touched him, and went home, happy to know that this evening he was approaching his goal in more than two months.
Alexey Alexandrovich found nothing special or indecent about his wife sitting at the special table and talking about something lively; but he noticed that to others in the living room it seemed special and indecent, and that was why it seemed indecent to him as well. He decided to tell his wife.
When he returned home, he went to his office, as he normally did, and sat in a chair, opening a book on papism on a knifed spot, reading until the hour, as he normally did; only occasionally did he wipe his high forehead and shake his head like he was chasing something away.
At the usual hour, he got up and made his night toilet.
Anna Arkadievna wasn't here yet.
With a book under his armpit, he came upstairs, but on this evening, instead of normal thoughts and thoughts about his work, his thoughts were filled with a wife and something unpleasant that happened to her.
He, repulsed by his habit, did not go to bed, but put his hands behind his back to walk back and forth into the rooms.
He could not lie down feeling that he needed first to reflect on a newly emerging fact.
When he decided that he needed to speak to his wife, he felt that it was very easy and simple; but now that he was thinking about this newly created circumstance, he found it very difficult and difficult.
Alexei Alexandrovich wasn't jealous.
Jealousy, he is convinced, offends his wife, and he must have confidence in his wife.
Why should he have confidence, that is, full confidence that his young wife would always love him, he did not ask himself; but he did not feel mistrust, so he had confidence and told himself that he should have him.
Now, though his belief that jealousy was a shameless feeling and that it was necessary to have trust had not been destroyed, he felt that he stood face-to-face in front of something illogical and stupid, and did not know what to do.
Alexey Alexandrovich stood face-to-face in front of the possibility of love in his wife for someone other than him, and it seemed to him very stupid and incomprehensible, because it was life itself.
He spent his entire life living and working in the fields of service dealing with the reflection of life. And every time he bumped into his own life, he got away from it.
Now he felt the same way that a man would feel when he passed the bridge in peace and suddenly saw that the bridge had been torn apart and that there was a puncture.
The powder was -- the life itself, the bridge -- the artificial life Alexanderovich lived.
For the first time, he had questions about his wife's ability to love someone, and he was terrified of it.
Without undressing, he walked his smooth step back and forth through a sound park lit by a single dining room, a dark living room carpet that reflected light only on a large, recently made portrait of him hanging over the couch, and through her office, where two candles were burning, covering the portraits of her family and her friends, and the beautiful, long-known trinkets of her desk.
Through her room, he reached the bedroom door and turned again.
He stopped and said to himself, "Yeah, it has to be decided and stopped, and he has to express his view of it and his decision." And he turned back.
"But to say what? What's the solution?" 'He spoke to himself in the living room, and found no answer.'
'At last,' he asked himself before turning into the office, 'what happened?
Nothing.
She talked to him for a long time.
Well?
Isn't there a woman in the light who can talk to?
Then, to be jealous is to humiliate himself and her,' he said to himself when he entered her office; but the reasoning, which had previously borne such weight for him, now weighed nothing and meant nothing.
And he turned from the bedroom door to the room again; but as soon as he walked back into the dark living room, some voice said that it wasn't and that if others noticed it, it meant there was something.
And he said to himself again in the dining room, "Yeah, it's necessary to decide and stop and express his view..." And again in the living room before the turn, he asked himself, "What's the solution?"
And then he asked himself what happened? And he said, "Nothing, and he remembered that jealousy was a feeling that was humiliating to his wife, but once again he was convinced that something had happened in the living room.
Thought of him, like his body, made a complete circle without attacking anything new.
He noticed it, rubbed his forehead and sat in her office.
Here, looking at her table with a macahit boulevard lying upstairs and a note started, his thoughts suddenly changed.
He started thinking about her, what she thinks and feels.
For the first time, he pictured her private life, her thoughts, her desires, and the thought that she might and should have her own special life seemed so scary that he hastened to drive her away.
It was the chunk he was scared to look in.
Transferring thought and feeling to another creature was a mental act alien to Alexei Alexandrovich.
He considered this mental act to be harmful and dangerous fantasies.
'And most terrible of all,' he thought, 'that now that my case is coming to an end (he was thinking about the project he was doing now), when I need all the peace and all the strength of the soul, now I have to face this pointless anxiety.
But what should we do?
I'm not the kind of person who takes anxiety and anxiety and doesn't have the strength to face them."
'I have to think, decide, and throw it away,' he said out loud.
"The questions about her feelings, about what has been done and can be done in her soul are none of my business, it is her matter of conscience and is subject to religion," he said to himself, feeling relieved, conscious that a point of legitimacy had been found that was due to the fact that it had arisen.
"So," he said to himself, "the questions about her feelings and so on are the questions of her conscience, which I cannot care about.
My duty is clearly defined.
As head of the family, I am a person obliged to lead it, and therefore part of the face is responsible; I must point out the danger that I see, warn, and even use power.
I have to tell her."
And it became clear in Alexey Alexandrovich's head what he would now tell his wife.
In considering what he would say, he regretted that, for domestic consumption, he had to use his time and his mental powers without being noticed; yet his mind was clear and clear, as the report was, in the form and sequence of his forthcoming speech.
"I must say and say the following: first, an explanation of the meaning of public opinion and decency; second, a religious explanation of the meaning of marriage; third, if necessary, a reference to a possible misfortune for the son; fourth, a reference to her own misfortune."
And when he put his fingers behind his fingers, with his hands on the bottom, he pulled his fingers, and his fingers cracked in the joints.
This gesture, the bad habit of holding hands and rubbing fingers, always calmed him down and led him to the care that he now needed.
At the entrance, I heard the sound of a carriage coming up. Alexei Alexandrovich stopped in the middle of the hall.
There were women's steps on the stairs.
Alexey Alexandrovich, ready for his speech, stood there shaking his crossed fingers and waiting for him to crack where else.
One joint cracked.
Also, by the sound of light steps on the stairs, he felt her approach, and although he was pleased with his speech, he was afraid for the explanation to come...
Anna walked down with her head down and playing with her hands.
Her face shined brightly; but the glitter was not hilarious; it was like the terrible glitter of a fire in the dark night.
When Anna saw her husband, she raised her head and, as if she were waking up, she smiled.
'Are you out of bed?
Here's a miracle!-- she said, she threw a bastard and didn't stop, she went further to the bathroom. 'It is time, Alexis Alexandrovich,' she said because of the door.
'Anna, I need to talk to you.
'With me? 'She said, surprisedly, she came out of the door and looked at him. 'What is this?
What's that about? 'She asked, sitting down.' 'Well, let's talk if we have to.'
I'd rather sleep.
Anna said that she had come into her tongue, and she was surprised, listening to herself, to her ability to lie.
How simple, natural her words were, and how it seemed that she just wanted to sleep!
She felt dressed in an impenetrable armor of lies. She felt that some invisible force had helped her and supported her.
'Anna, I must warn you,' he said.
'Do you want me to warn you?' 'She said.' 'In what?
She looked so easy, so funny that who didn't know her, as her husband knew, couldn't see anything unnatural in the sound or in the sense of her words.
But for him, who knew her, who knew that when he went to bed drinking minutes later, she noticed and asked for a reason, for him, who knew that all her joy, her joy, her grief immediately told him, now that she didn't want to notice his condition, which she didn't want to say about herself, meant much.
He saw that the depth of her soul, always first revealed to him, was hidden from him.
Not only did he see in her tone that she wasn't embarrassed by it, but she would say to him, "Yeah, it's closed, and that's how it's gonna be, and it's gonna be.
Now he felt the same way that a man would experience when he returned home and found his house locked up.
"But maybe there's still a key," thought Alexei Alexandrovich.
'I want to warn you of this,' he said in a quiet voice, 'that by negligence and rashness you can give a reason to talk about you.
Your overjoyed conversation today with Count Wronsky (he spoke that name firmly and calmly) drew attention.
He spoke and looked at her laughing, scary for him now with his impenetrable eyes, and he felt all the useless and idleness of his words.
'You've always been like this,' she replied, as if she didn't understand him at all and out of everything he had deliberately understood only the latter. 'You hate that I'm bored, you hate that I'm fun.
I wasn't bored.
Does that insult you?
Alexei Alexandrovich shuddered and shuddered his hands to crack them.
'Oh, please don't talk, I don't like it so much,' she said.
'Anna, is that you? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said quietly, making an effort against himself, and restraining the movement of his hands.'
'What is it?' she said with such sincere and comic surprise. 'What do you want from me?
Alexei Alexandrovich silenced and rubbed his forehead and eyes with his hand.
He saw that instead of what he wanted to do, that is, to warn his wife of a mistake in the eyes of the world, he was anxious about what had touched her conscience, and he fought against his imaginary wall.
'I intend to say this,' he continued cold and calm, 'and I ask you to listen to me.
I admit, as you know, jealousy is offensive and humiliating, and I will never allow myself to be guided by that feeling; but there are well-known laws of decency that cannot be transgressed with impunity.
Now I didn't notice, but according to the impression that was made on society, everyone noticed that you didn't behave and keep yourself exactly the way you wanted.
'I don't really understand anything,' said Anna, shaking her shoulders.
"He doesn't care," she thought. 'But they have noticed in society, and it troubles him.' 'You are not well, Alexis Alexandrovich,' she added, stood up, and wanted to walk out the door; but he moved forward as if he wanted to stop her.
His face was ugly and dark as Anna had never seen him.
She stopped and swerved her head back, side-by-side, and started picking her pins with her quick hand.
'Well, I'm listening to what's going to happen,' she said calmly and ridiculously. 'And even listens with interest, because I would like to know what's going on.
She spoke and was surprised at the natural-satisfied, faithful tone she had spoken and the choice of the words she had used.
'I have no right to enter into all the details of your feelings, and I consider it to be useless or even harmful at all,' Alexis Alexandrovich began. 'As we dig in our souls, we often dig up things that would lie undetected.
Your feelings are a matter of your conscience; but I owe it to you, to myself, and to God, to show you your responsibilities.
Our lives are bound, not by men, but by God.
Only a crime can break that connection, and a crime of this kind carries a heavy penalty.
'I don't understand.
Oh, my God, I'm so sleepy! 'She said, scrubbing her hair quickly and searching for the remaining stilts.
'Anna, for God's sake, don't say that,' he said mildly. 'Maybe I'm wrong, but believe me, what I'm saying, I speak as much for myself as I speak for you.
I'm your husband and I love you.
For a moment her face fell down, and there was a laughing spark in her eyes; but the word "love" repulsed her.
She thought, "Love? How can he love?
If he hadn't heard of love, he would never have used that word.
He doesn't know what love is."
'Alexei Alexandrovich, right, I don't understand,' she said. 'Define what you find...'
'Let me, let me finish.'
I love you.
But I'm not talking about myself; the main faces here are our son and you.
It may well be, I repeat, that my words seem in vain and inappropriate to you; perhaps they are caused by my error.
In that case, I'm asking you to excuse me.
But if you feel that there's any reason, I'm asking you to think and, if your heart tells you, tell me...
Alexei Alexandrovich, though not aware of it, did not say what he had prepared.
'I have nothing to say.
And... all of a sudden, she quickly said, having difficulty holding a smile, 'right, it's time to go to sleep.
Alexey Alexandrovich sighed and, without saying anything else, went to the bedroom.
When she entered the bedroom, he was already lying there.
His lips were tight, and his eyes weren't looking at her.
Anna went to her bed and waited every minute for him to talk to her again.
She was afraid he was gonna talk, and she wanted to.
But he didn't say anything.
She's been waiting a long time and she's forgotten about him.
She thought of another, she saw him and felt her heart filled with excitement and criminal joy.
Suddenly she heard a smooth and calm nose whistle.
In the first minute, it was as if he was afraid of his whistle and stopped; but after waiting for two breaths, the whistle spread out with a new, calm order.
'It is too late, too late,' she whispered with a smile.
She lay still for a long time with her eyes open, whose glitter she thought she saw herself in the dark.
From this evening, a new life began for Alexei Alexandrovich and his wife.
Nothing really happened.
Anna, as always, traveled to the world, especially when she visited Princess Betsy and met with him everywhere.
Alexei Alexandrovich saw it, but there was nothing he could do.
Any attempt to get him to explain to her, she stood up to him with an impermeable wall of some kind of hilarious perplexation.
It was the same outside, but their internal relations have changed completely.
Alexey Alexandrovich, such a strong man in public service, felt powerless, like an ox, bowing his head down, waiting for a veil that he felt had been lifted over him.
Every time he started thinking about it, he felt like he had to try again, that kindness, tenderness, conviction, there was still hope to save her, to make her remember, and he was going to talk to her every day.
But every time he started talking to her, he felt that the spirit of evil and deception that possessed her had taken possession of him, and he spoke to her in a very different and different way. He spoke to her involuntarily with his usual tone of joking at someone who would say that.
And in that tone, you couldn't say what you had to say to her. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
For almost a year, it was only one wish of his life that replaced all his previous desires; what was impossible, terrible, and all the more fascinating, dream of happiness for Anna was satisfied.
Pale, with a shivering lower jaw, he stood above her and begged for calm, not knowing what or what.
'Anna! Anna!--he said with a trembling voice. 'Anna, for God's sake! '
But the louder he spoke, the lower she would lower her once proud, merry, now her shameful head, and she would all bend and fall from the couch on which she sat on the floor to his feet; she would fall on the carpet if he hadn't held her.
'Oh, my God!
Forgive me!-- sighing, she said, holding his hands to her chest.
She felt so guilty and guilty that all she had to do was humiliate herself and ask forgiveness. Now in life she had no one but him, so she prayed to him for forgiveness.
She looked at him and felt physically humiliated and couldn't say anything else.
He felt what the killer should feel when he saw a body deprived of its life.
This body that deprived them of their lives was their love, the first period of their love.
There was something awful and disgusting about the memory of what was being paid at the terrible cost of shame.
Embarrassed in the face of his spiritual nakedness, he pressured her and reported to him.
But despite the horror of the killer in front of the victim's body, you have to cut to pieces, hide this body, you have to use what the killer bought with the murder.
And with anger, as if with passion, the murderer threw himself at that body, and dragged it, and cut it: even so he covered her face and shoulders with kisses.
She held his hand and didn't move.
Yes, these kisses are what this shame buys.
Yes, and this one hand, which will always be mine, is the hand of my accomplice.
She raised that hand and kissed her.
He went down to his knees and wanted to see her face; but she hid him and said nothing.
Finally, as if she had made an effort to herself, she rose up and pushed him away.
Her face was still so beautiful, but it was all the more pathetic.
'It's over,' she said. 'I have nothing but you.
Remember that.
'I can't help but remember what my life is.
In a minute of this happiness...
'What a joy!' she said with disgust and horror, and the horror willingly conveyed to him. 'For God's sake, not a word, not another word.'
She quickly stood up and walked away from him. 'Never more,' she repeated, and with a strange expression of cold despair on his face, she broke up with him.
She felt that at that moment she could not express that sense of shame, joy, and horror before entering a new life, and she did not want to talk about it, to put it in inaccurate words.
But both after and on the other day and on the third day, not only did she not find words that she could express the complexity of these feelings, but she did not find thoughts that she could think with herself about everything that was in her soul.
She said to herself, "No, now I can't think about it; after I'm calmer."
But this calm never came to mind; every time she thought about what she had done, what she would do, what she would do, what she would do, she was terrified, and she turned her mind away.
'After, after,' she said, 'when I am calmer.
But in her dream, when she had no power over her thoughts, her situation seemed to her in all her ugly nudity.
One dream visited her almost every night.
She dreamed that both of her husbands were together, that both were wasting their caress.
Alexey Alexandrovich wept, kissing her hands, and said, "How good it is now! And Alexey Wronsky was right there, and he was also her husband.
And when she was surprised that it had previously seemed impossible to do so, she explained to them, laughing that it was much easier and that they were both happy and happy.
But this dream, like a nightmare, put pressure on her, and she woke up horribly.
In the early days of his return from Moscow, when Levin each time freaked out and blushed, remembering the shame of his refusal, he said to himself, "I also blushed and pissed, thinking all of them dead when I got one per physicist and stayed in second year; he also thought himself dead after ruining my sister's case.
So what?
Now that the years have passed, I remember and wonder how sad it could have been for me.
The same will happen with this grief.
It's gonna be a while, and I'm gonna be indifferent to it."
But three months later, he wasn't indifferent to it, and just like he was in the early days, he was hurt to think about it.
He couldn't calm down because he, who had long dreamed of a family life, felt so ripe for her, wasn't married and was further away than he ever was from getting married.
He felt painfully on his own, as all around him felt, that it was not good in his year for a man to be one.
He remembered before he left for Moscow telling his cattleman Nikolai, the naive man he liked to talk to, "What, Nikolai! I want to get married," and as Nikolai answered in haste, as a case in which there can be no doubt, "It's about time, Constantin Dmitrich."
But getting married has gone further from him than ever before.
The place was occupied, and when he was now imagining putting someone he knew in that place, he felt that it was completely impossible.
Moreover, the memory of rejection and the role he played in it was a source of shame to him.
As much as he said to himself that he had nothing to do with it, the memory, like other such embarrassing memories, forced him to freak out and blush.
There were in his past, like every man, bad deeds for which his conscience should have tormented him; but the remembrance of evil deeds did not torment him as much as these vile but shameful memories.
These wounds have never been sustained.
And along with those memories, there was now a refusal and the pathetic situation in which he was to be presented to others this evening.
But time and work did their job.
He had more and more painful memories of invisible but significant events in village life.
Every week, he kept thinking less and less about Kitty.
He was looking forward to hearing that she had already come out or was getting married the other day, hoping that the news would cure him.
In the meantime, spring, beautiful, friendly, unwaited spring, is one of the rare springs where plants, animals, and humans rejoice together.
This beautiful spring has further inspired Levin and confirmed his intention to renounce all things in order to have a firm and independent life of his own.
Although many of the plans with which he returned to the village had not been fulfilled, most importantly, he respected the purity of life. He did not feel the shame that usually tormented him after the fall, and he had the courage to look people in the eye.
As early as February, he received a letter from Maria Nikolaevna that his brother &apos; s health was getting worse, but that he did not want to be treated, and as a result Levin went to Moscow to see his brother and talked him into consulting a doctor and going to the waters abroad.
He managed so well to persuade his brother and lend him money to travel without annoying him that he was pleased with himself in that regard.
In addition to the farm that required special attention in spring, Levin began this writing in winter on the farm, the plan of which was that the nature of the farm would be taken as absolute as climate and soil, and therefore that all the provisions of the farm science would be derived not from the soil and climate alone, but from the soil, the climate and the known constant nature of the worker.
So, despite solitude or solitude, his life was extremely full, and only occasionally did he feel an unsatisfied desire to communicate his thoughts to anyone other than Agatha Mikhaylovna, even though he often talked about physics, economic theory, and particularly philosophy; philosophy was the favorite subject of Agatha Mikhaylovna.
Spring hasn't been open for a long time.
The last weeks of the post have been clear, cold weather.
And it melted in the sun during the day, and it reached seven degrees in the night; and the fast was as though they were riding without a road. Easter was in the snow.
Then suddenly, on the second day of the Holy, a warm wind came, the clouds were moved, and three days and three nights rained a stormy and warm rain.
On Thursday, the wind was quiet, and the thick gray fog was moved, as if hiding the secrets of the changes that had occurred in nature.
In the fog, the waters poured out, the ice blazed and moved, the murky, blazing streams moved faster, and on the Red Gorca itself, since the evening, the fog burst, the clouds split with pins, became clear, and the real spring opened.
In the morning, the rising bright sun quickly ate a thin ice that ripped the water, and all the warm air trembled with the evaporating of the dead earth.
The old needles and needles of the young grass became green, the kidneys of the kale, the seamone, and the sticky liquor birch were inflated, and the splintered bee was encircled on the golden light of the vine.
There were invisible burrows above the velvet of the greens and the icy stew, crying over the storm's indignant waters and marshes, and flying high with the spring frogs of the crane and geese.
Screaming in the outcasts, only where the cattle had not yet passed over, playing crooked lambs around losing a wave of bleaching mothers, running the fast-legged guys through the sniffing, with the footprints of the bare feet of the trails, slamming on the pond the fun voices of the women with the canvass, and slamming through the backyards the axes of the men who set up the hawks and borons.
It's real spring.
Levin put on large boots for the first time, not a coat, but a soup pin, and went on the household, walking through the streams, cutting their eyes with their glitter in the sun, walking on the ice, in sticky mud.
Spring is a time of plans and assumptions. And when Levin came out into the yard, as a tree in spring, who did not yet know where and how his young runners and branches in his kidneys would grow, he himself did not know very well which businesses in his favourite household he would now accept, but felt that he was full of plans and suggestions of the best.
First of all, he went to the bastard.
The cows were released to the bowl and, shining over the smooth wool, warmed up in the sun, mooing and wailing in the field.
When he saw the cows in the slightest detail, Levin ordered them to be thrown out into the field, and let the calves out.
The shepherd had fun getting ready in the field.
Stomp women, picking up pores, barefoot, still white, unburned feet, slapped in the mud, and with the darlings, chased the mooers, stunned by the spring joy of the calves, and drove them into the yard.
After admiring this year &apos; s hives, which were incredibly good, the early calves were with a man &apos; s cow, Pavin &apos; s daughter was three months tall, with an annual height, &quot; Levin ordered them to bring the bark out and put the hay behind bars.
But it turns out that the bark made since the fall of the groceries was broken at an unused winter.
He sent for a carpenter who was supposed to work along with a hammer. But it turns out that the carpenter was fixing the borons that were supposed to be fixed from the oil.
It was very annoying for Levin.
It was a shame that this grudge of the economy, against which he fought with all his strength for so many years, was repeated.
The bars, as he learned, which were not necessary in winter, were moved to the work stables and were broken because they were made easily for veals.
It also found that the borons and all the agricultural tools that had been ordered to be inspected and repaired in winter and for which three carpenters had been deliberately taken had not been repaired, and the borons had nevertheless been repaired when they had to go fast.
Levin sent for the commander, but immediately he went to look for him himself.
The order, as shining as it was all that day, in a punctured morsel, came from the gumna, breaking a straw in his hands.
'Why isn't a carpenter on a hammer?
'Yes, I wanted to report yesterday: The borons must be repaired.'
I mean, here's the smell.
'What's the matter with you in winter?'
'Would you like anything about a carpenter?'
'Where are the bars from the vealyard?'
'Did he order you to take it down to the ground?'
What do you command with this people? 'The commander said, waving his hand.'
'Not with this people, but with this orderman!' said Levin in a flash. 'Why do I keep you?' 'He screamed.'
But when you remembered that you wouldn't help, you stopped at half the speech and just sighed. 'Are we allowed to sow?' 'He asked, silently.'
'It will be possible to follow Turkin tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
'And the clover?'
'I sent Vasilia with Miska, scattered.
I don't know if they're gonna make it.
'How many tithes?'
'Six. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;For six. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;
'Why not all of them?' 'Screamed Levin.'
That clover was only six, not twenty ten, that was even more annoying.
By planting clover, and by theory and by his own experience, it was only good when it was done as early as possible, almost in the snow. Levin could never have done so.
'No people.
What are you going to do with this people?
Three didn't come.
There's Semen...
'Well, you'd give up the straw.
'Yes, I did.'
'Where are the people?
'Five comots make (this meant compost) Four owes are spilled; however touched, Konstantin Dmitrich.
Levin knew very well that "no matter how touched" meant that the seed of the English oatmeal had already been damaged," again did not do what he had ordered.
'Cause I told you in fasting, pipes!' 'He cried out.'
'Don't worry, we'll do it in time.
Levin pissed his hand off, went to the barn to look at the oats, and went back to the stables.
The oves aren't spoiled yet. But the workers splintered it with shovels, while it was possible to drop it directly into the lower barn, and after ordering it and ripping off two of the workers from here to plant a clover, Levin calmed himself down.
And the day was so good, you couldn't be angry.
'Ignat!' he cried out to the man who, with his sleeves dried at the well, washed his pram. 'Sediment me...'
'Whose order is it?'
'Well, at least Kolpica.'
While the horse was riding, Levin again called the man in plain sight to make peace with him, and began to tell him about the coming spring works and economic plans.
The dung ride starts early so it's all over before the early shovel. And plows in and out of the deep field to keep him on the black ferry.
You don't want to get rid of the shit, you don't want to get rid of it. It's the workers.
The orderer listened carefully and apparently made efforts to approve the master's suggestions; but he did have such a familiar face for Levin and always annoyed with his hopeless and sad appearance.
The view said, "It's all good, God willing."
Nothing upset Levin as much as that tone. But that's the tone of every order he's ever had.
Everyone had the same attitude to his assumptions, so he was no longer angry, but was upset and even more excited to fight it by some kind of natural force, which he could not otherwise call "what God would give" and which was constantly opposed to him.
'When we get there, Konstantin Dmitrich,' said the commander.
'Why can't you make it?'
'The workers must certainly be hired by fifteen more.
They don't come. Now they're asking for 70 rubles for the summer.
Levin shut up.
Once again, that power was opposed.
He knew that, as many as they tried, they could not hire more than forty, thirty-seven, thirty-eight workers for the real price; forty were hired, and no more.
But he couldn't help but fight.
'Let's go to Sura, to Chef if they don't come.'
We've got to find it.
'I will send it,' said Vasily Fedorovitch. 'Well, the horses are weak.'
'We will.
'Cause I know,' he added by laughing, 'you're all smaller and worse; but I'm not gonna let you do it in your own way this year.
I'll do it myself.
'You don't seem to sleep very much.
We're having more fun, like the owner in front of us...
'Are the clover scattered behind Berezov Dol?'
I'm gonna go take a look, he said, sitting on a little bald hat set up by a doll.
'You will not pass through the creek, Konstantin Dmitrich,' screamed the pitcher.
'Well, so in the forest.'
And Levin went through the mud of the yard behind the gate and into the field, by means of a good, stable horse snoring over the puddles and asking for guidance.
If Levin was having fun in cattle and greasy backyards, he had more fun in the field.
As he shuddered on the other side of a good horse, drinking a warm, fresh smell of snow and air while passing through the woods through some of the remaining dusty, sunken snow with sparkling traces, he rejoiced at each of his trees with his moss on the bark and swollen kidneys.
When he set out for the woods, he was faced with a flat green velvet carpet in a vast space, with no flask or wash, but somewhere in the valleys, stained with the remains of melting snow.
He was not pissed off by the appearance of the peasant horse and the strigoon that trampled its green (he told him to drive them over to the man he met), nor by the mocking and foolish answer of the man Ipat, whom he met and asked, "What, Ipat, shall we sow soon?" 'We must plow first, Konstantin Dmitrich,' answered Ipat.
The further he drove, the more hilarious he was, and one was better than the other: lay all the fields with vines on the midday lines, so that the snow would not fall beneath them; cut into six fields of slurry and three spares with herbs; build a livestock yard at the far end of the field and dig a pond; and set up portable pastures for livestock to fertilisers.
And then three hundred tens of wheat, one hundred potatoes, one hundred fifty clovers, and not a single depleted tithe.
With such dreams, carefully turning the horse between them in order not to stomp his greens, he drove up to the workers who scattered the clover.
The seed cart was not at the end, but at the field, and the wheat winter was made up of wheels and fossils by a horse.
Both employees were sitting in the middle, probably picking up a common tube.
The land in the cart, with which the seeds were mixed, was not crushed, but was followed, or fouled, by the comels.
When he saw the owner, Vasily the worker went to the cart, and Mishka began to crucify.
It wasn't good, but Levin was rarely angry with the workers.
When Vasily approached, Levin told him to send a horse to the border.
'Nothing, sir, will delay,' replied Vasily.
'Please don't talk,' said Levin, 'but do as they say.'
'I'm listening,' answered Vasily and took the horse's head. 'And now, Konstantin Dmitrich,' he said, looking for, 'the first class.
Just walk the passion!
You're on the poodle.
'Why do you have unsoiled land?' 'Said Levin.'
'Yes, we do,' replied Vasily, picking up seeds and rubbing the ground in the palms.
It wasn't Vasily's fault that he was filled with unsold land, but it was annoying.
Several times after using the means known to him to silence his anger and everything that seems to be bad to do good again, Levin used it now.
He watched Mishka walk, grumbling a giant coma of land on each leg, cry off a horse, took a dumpling from Vasily, and went to tear it apart.
'Where are you staying?
Vasily pointed to the mark with his foot, and Levin went as well as he could to sow the earth with seeds.
It was hard to walk as in the marsh, and Levin, after passing through the lech, sweated and stopped, gave up the shovel.
'Well, my lord, for the summer I shouldn't be scolding for that lech,' said Vasily.
'Why? 'Funly said Levin, feeling the reality of the means already used.'
'Look at the summer.
It's gonna be great.
Look where I sat last spring. What a mess!
'Cause I, Konstantin Dmitrich, I think that's how my father's doing it.
I don't like doing bad things myself, and I don't tell anyone else.
The owner's good, and we're good.
'As you look out,' said Vasily, pointing to the field, 'the heart rejoices.
'And good spring, Vasily.
'It's so spring, the old men won't remember.
I was at home, and there's an old man, too, who planted three osminists.
That's what he says. You can't tell from the rust.
'How long have you been planting wheat?'
'You have taught me a year; you have sacrificed two things to me.
A quarter has been sold, and three osminists have been planted.
'Well, look, grow a coma,' said Levin, approaching the horse, 'look after Bear. And it's gonna be a good one, you're 50 grand a tithe.
'Thank you very much.
We seem to be so pleased with you.
Levin sat on the horse, and went to the field where last year's clover was, and to that which the plow was prepared under the golden wheat.
The clover's stewing was wonderful.
He's out of the woods and he's green because of last year's wheat stalks.
The horse was chained to the hub, and every leg of her was sniffing out of the half-stained land.
In the pond, it was not possible to pass: it was only there that it held the ice, and in the plows the foot was chained above the hub.
The smell was excellent; in two days it will be possible to boron and sow.
Everything was fine, everything was fun.
Levin went back through the stream, hoping that the water had come out. And indeed, he moved in and spooked two ducks.
"It's gotta be the valdshneps," he thought, and just at the turn of the house, he met a forest guard who confirmed his theory of valdshneps.
Levin went home to eat lunch and prepare his gun for the evening.
When Levin came home with the most fun of spirits, he heard a bell on the side of the main entrance to the house.
"Yeah, it's from the railway," he thought. "It's time for the Moscow train...
Who would that be?
What if it's Nikolai's brother?
He said, "Perhaps I will go to the water, or maybe I will come to you." He was afraid and uneasy at the first moment that the presence of Brother Nikolai would upset his happy spring pleasure.
But he was ashamed of that feeling, and at once, as if he had opened his inner arms, he looked forward to it, and now he wanted it to be a brother.
He touched the horse, and when he went out for the acacia, he saw an Oma three coming from a train station and a gentleman in a coat.
It wasn't a brother.
"Oh, if someone was a nice person to talk to," he thought.
'Ah!' cried Levin with joy, raising both hands to the top. 'Here's a happy guest!
Oh, I'm so glad to see you!-- he cried when he recognized Stepan Arkadyich.
"I'll find out if I'm out or when I'm getting married," he thought.
And on this beautiful spring day, he felt that remembering her didn't hurt him at all.
'What, didn't wait?' said Stepan Arkadych, climbing out of his sleigh, with a lump of dirt on his nose, on his cheek, and on his eyebrow, but radiant with joy and health. 'He came to see you, once,' he said, hugging him and kissing him, 'on the urge to stand, two, and the woods in Jergushov to sell three.
'Great! What's spring like?
How did you get on the sleigh?
'The cart is worse, Konstantin Dmitrich,' said a friend of the dungeon.
'Well, I am very, very pleased with you,' said Levin, smiling honestly with a childish smile.
Levin brought his guest to the guest room, where Stepan Arkadjić's belongings were brought: a bag, a gun in a drawer, a cigar bag, and leaving him to wash and change his clothes while he went to the office to talk about the pillow and the clover.
Agatha Mikhaylovna, who is always very concerned about the honor of the house, met him in front questions about lunch.
'Whatever you want to do, but quickly,' he said, and went to the commander.
When he returned, Stepan Arkadić, washed, brushed, and smiled, came out of his door, and they went upstairs together.
'Well, I'm so glad I got to you!
Now I understand what the mystery you're doing here is.
But no, right, I envy you.
What a house, how lovely it is! Light, fun,' said Stepan Arkadych, forgetting that spring and clear days are not always like today. 'And your nanny is so adorable!
A pretty maid in an apron would be more desirable; but with your monasticity and strict style, that's very good.
Stepan Arkadić gave a lot of interesting news and especially interesting news for Levin that his brother, Sergei Ivanovic, was going to visit him in the village this summer.
Stepan Arkadić didn't say a word about Kitty and Scherbatsky at all; he just gave his wife a bow.
Levin was grateful for his sensitivity and was very pleased with the guest.
As always, during his solitude, he had a gap of thoughts and feelings that he could not convey to others, and now he poured into Stepan Arkadyić and the poetic joy of spring, and failures and plans of the household, and thoughts and comments about the books he had read, and in particular the idea of his essay, which, although he himself did not notice, was based on criticism of all the old works of the farm.
Stepan Arkadić, always sweet, understanding all the hints, was especially nice in this visit, and Levin noticed a new one that flattered him with respect and as if tenderness to himself.
The effort of Agatha Mikhaylovna and the cook to make the meal particularly good only had the effect that both hungry pals would eat bread with butter, a towel, and salt mushrooms, and that Levin would serve soup without the cakes that the chef wanted especially to surprise the guest.
But Stepan Arkadić, though accustomed to other meals, found everything excellent, both herbal, and bread, and oil, and especially the shelves, and the fungus, and the blades, and the chicken under the white sauce, and the white Crimean wine -- everything was wonderful and wonderful.
'Great, great,' he said, stabbing a fat papyros after a hot one. 'I'm definitely coming out of your boat after the noise and shaking on a quiet shore.'
So you're saying that the most important element of a worker should be studied and directed in the choice of household practices.
I'm a freak, but I think the theory and the application will have an impact on the worker.
'Yes, but wait: I'm not talking about political economy, I'm talking about economic science.
It must be like natural sciences and observe these phenomena and workers with its economic, ethnographic...
At that time, Agatha Mikhaylovna entered with jam.
'Well, Agatha Mikhaylovna,' said Stepan Arkadić to her, kissing the tips of her swollen fingers, 'what a layer you have, what a herb!'
Isn't it time, Kostya? 'He added.'
Levin looked out the window at the sun coming down after the bare poppy of the forest.
'It is time, it is time,' he said. 'Kuzma, set up the ruler!' and ran down.
Stepan Arkadić went down, carefully removed the sailor &apos; s drawer from the polished box and opened it and collected his expensive, new weapon.
Kuzma, who had already sensed a large vodka day, did not depart from Stepan Arkadyić and put on stockings and boots, which Stepan Arkadić willingly gave him to do.
'Of course, Kostya, if Ryabinin the merchant comes -- I told him to come today -- to receive and wait...'
'Are you selling the woods?'
'Yes, do you know him?
'Oh, I know.
I've been dealing with him "positively and definitively."
'Stepan Arkadić laughed.
"The final and the positive" was the trader's favourite words.
'Yes, he is incredibly funny.
I knew where the master was going. He added his hand to Laska, who squealed at Levin and licked his hand, his boots, and his gun.
The debt was standing by the porch when they got out.
'I have ordered the mortgage, though it is not far; shall we walk?'
'No, we better go,' said Stepan Arkadić, approaching the debt.
He sat down, turned his legs around with a tiger blanket and smoked a cigar. 'Oh, you don't smoke!
Shigara is not a pleasure, but a crown and a sign of pleasure.
What a life!
That's so good!
I wish I could live!
'Who's stopping you? 'Smile,' said Levin.
'No, you're a lucky man.
Everything you love, you have.
You love horses -- eat, dogs -- eat, hunt -- eat, farm -- eat.
'Maybe because I'm happy with what I have, and I don't want what I don't have,' said Levin, remembering Kitty.
Stepan Arkadych understood, looked at him, but he didn't say anything.
Levin was grateful to Oblonski for his constant tact, when he noticed that Levin was afraid to talk about the Shcherbatskys, he did not say anything about them; but now Levin wanted to know what was tormenting him, but he did not dare speak.
'So, how are you doing?' 'Said Levin, thinking about how bad it is for him to think only of himself.'
Stepan Arkadyich's eyes are hilarious.
'You don't admit to being able to love cocktails when you have napkins,' you think it's a crime; and I don't recognize life without love,' he said, understanding Levin's question in his own way. 'What to do, I am so created.'
And right, so little does this to anyone, and so much pleasure to yourself...
'Well, is there anything new?' 'I asked Levin.'
'Yes, brother!
You see, you know the kind of women Ossian... women you see in a dream...
These women are real... and these women are terrible.
Woman, see, it's such a subject that no matter how much you study it, it's gonna be brand-new.
'It is better not to study.'
'No, I'm not.
Some mathematician said it wasn't about finding the truth, but about looking for it.
Levin listened silently, and despite all the efforts he had made, he could not bear the soul of his friend and could not understand his feelings and the beauty of studying such women.
The thrust was close to the river in the small orange.
When Levin came up to the woods, he cried, and led Oblonsky to the corner of a wrinkled and stubble Pole that had already been freed from the snow.
He himself returned to the other side of the bereze twin and, by sticking the gun to the development of the dry lower bitch, removed the kaftan, relaxed and tried the freedom of movement of his hands.
The old, gray Laska, who followed them, sat carefully against him and alerted his ears.
The sun came down to the large forest; and in the light of the dawn, the berets spread through the blueberries were clearly painted with their whirlwind branches full of swelling, ready to burst their kidneys.
From the frequent forest, where there was still snow, the water flowed a little bit further with rugged narrow streams of water.
Small birds roamed and occasionally flew from tree to tree.
In the interim, the perfect silence was heard in the sound of last year's leaves moving from the melting of the earth and from the growth of herbs.
"How it feels!
You can hear and see the grass growing!" 'Says Levin to himself, seeing a grift-colored wet leaf under the needle of a young herb.
He stood there, listening, and looking down, and upon the wet, wrinkled earth, and upon the listening Laska, and upon the sea of bare tops of the forest that lay before him under the mountain, and upon the cloud that was shrivelled with white stripes, darkened sky.
The hawk, flying its wings in haste, flew high above the distant forest; the other one also flew in the same direction and fled.
Birds were getting louder and more troublesome.
Sniffed the philine nearby, and Laska groaned over a few steps carefully and turned her head aside and listened.
The river made me hear a cuckoo.
She started screaming twice, and then she snorted, hurryed up and messed up.
'How it feels! 'Cuckle!' said Stepan Arkadych, leaving behind the bush.
'Yes, I hear,' answered Levin with displeasure, breaking the silence of the forest with his unpleasant voice. 'Now soon.
Stepan Arkadjić's figure came back to the bush, and Levin saw only a bright match light, which followed the red coal of the papyros and the blue smoke.
Chick! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! 'Clicked the triggers raised by Stepan Arkadyich. &apos;
'What's that screaming? 'Oblonsky asked, drawing Levin's attention to a long gourd, as if it were a thin voice, a slag, a groaning of a stallion.'
'Oh, you don't know?
It's a male hare.
Let him speak!
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, he 'Then he almost cried Levin, raising the triggers.'
I heard a long, thin whistle, and, just in that usual tactic, so familiar to the hunter, two seconds later -- another, third, and after the third whistle, the ferret was already heard.
Levin turned his eyes to the right, to the left, and behold, a flying bird appeared in front of him in the dark blue sky.
It flew straight into it: the close sounds of the ferrets, which were like the uniform overlaying of the tight tissue, were scattered over the very ear; the long nose and neck of the birds were already seen, and at the moment Levin was attached, because of the bush where the Oblonian was standing, the red lightning shone; the bird, like an arrow, came down and swam again. The lightning shone again, and the sound of the blow was heard; and the bird shuddered with wings, as if to hold on to the air, stopped, stood for a moment, and smacked hard against the dusty ground.
'Is it a miss?' 'Stepan Arkadić screamed, who could not see because of the smoke.'
'Here he is! 'Said Levin, pointing to Laska, who, by lifting one ear and flying high with the tip of a fluffy tail, took a quiet step, as if to prolong the pleasure and as if smiling, brought the dead bird to the master.' 'Well, I am glad that you succeeded,' said Levin, yet already jealous that he had not succeeded in killing this valdshnep.
'Bad slip from the right barrel,' answered Stepan Arkadić, charging the gun. 'Sh... it's coming.
Indeed, piercing, fast-tracking whistles were heard.
Two valdsnaps, playing and catching up with each other, and only whistles, not eyesights, hit the very heads of hunters.
Four shots were fired, and, like squirrels, the valds gave a quick turn and disappeared. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
The load was beautiful.
Stepan Arkadić killed two more grand and Levin two, of which he did not find one.
It's getting dark.
Clear silver Venus is low in the west, already glowing because of the birch with its tender glitter, and high in the east has already passed through the dark Arctic with its red lights.
Levin caught and lost the stars of the Bear over his head.
The Waldshneps had already stopped flying; but Levin decided to wait until the bitch below Venus's birch would pass above him, and when the stars of the Bear would be clear everywhere.
Venus has gone above the bitch, the bear's chariot with its breath was already visible in the dark blue sky, but he was still waiting.
'It is time, isn't it?' 'Stepan Arkadić said.'
It was already quiet in the woods, and no bird moved.
'Stay still,' answered Levin.
'As you wish.
They stood now 15 feet apart.
'Steve! 'Suddenly Levin said,' why don't you tell me if your sister-in-law got married or when?
Levin felt so firm and calm that no answer, he thought, could worry him. But he wasn't expecting what Stepan Arkadych said.
'And I didn't think or think of getting married, and she is very sick, and the doctors sent her abroad.
Even afraid for her life.
'Oh, come on! 'Screamed Levin.' 'A very sick woman?
What's wrong with her?
How did she...
While they were saying it, Laska looked up and down on their ears, looking up into the sky.
"Here's the time to talk," she thought. 'And he is flying...'
That's it, that's it.
'They're pronouncing..." thought Laska.
But at that very moment, both of them suddenly heard a piercing whistling whistle, which was as if he had stabbed them in the ear, and both of them suddenly grabbed the guns, and two lightnings shone, and two blows went out in the same moment.
The high-flying valdshnep immediately folded its wings and fell into the bowl, bending thin escapes.
'That's great!
General!--Screamed Levin and ran with Laska to find the valdshnep.
"Oh, yeah, what was that awful about? 'He remembered.' 'Yes, Kitty is sick...'
Well, that's too bad," he thought.
'Ah, I found it! She was smart,' he said, taking a warm bird out of Lasky's mouth and putting it in a full-blown pussy. 'I found it, Steve! 'He cried.'
When Levin returned home, he asked all the details about Kitty's illness and Shcherbatsky's plans, and although he would be ashamed to admit it, what he had learned was a pleasure to him.
It's also nice because there was hope, and it's even more pleasant because it hurt her, the one who hurt him so much.
But when Stepan Arkadić began to speak of the causes of Kitty's illness, and mentioned the name of Vronski, Levin interrupted him:
'I have no right to know the family details, to tell you the truth, and no interest.'
Stepan Arkadić smiled a little bit, picking up an instant and as familiar change in Levin's face as he had been as morbid as he had had fun a minute ago.
'Are you done with the woods with Ryabinin? 'I asked Levin.'
'Yes, I have.
It's a lovely price, thirty-eight thousand. Eight in advance, and the rest six years.
I've been dealing with this for a long time.
No one else gave it to me.
'It means that you gave away the forest for nothing,' said Levin sombrely.
'I mean, why free?' 'With a good-natured smile,' said Stepan Arkadić, knowing that it would be bad for Levin now.
'Because the forest is worth at least 500 rubles per tithe,' answered Levin.
'Oh, these are my farm owners! 'Prankly said Stepan Arkadych.' 'This is your tone of contempt toward our urban brother!'
And how to do it, we'll always do it.
Believe me, I've got it all figured out,' he said,'and the woods have been sold very well, so I'm afraid as much as he would say no.
After all, it is not an insulted forest,' said Stepan Arkadič, seeking to convince Levin, with the word offensive, of the injustice of his doubt -- and more of it wood.
It wouldn't be more than thirty tithes, and he gave me 200 rubles.
Levin smiled in contempt.
'I know,' he thought, 'this is a manner not of his own, but of all the people of the city who, having been in the village every two years every ten years and having noticed two or three words from the village, use them by the way and in the wrong way, are firmly convinced that they all already know.
It's gonna be annoying. It's gonna be thirty.
He speaks words, and he doesn't understand anything."
'I will not teach you what you write in front of me,' he said, 'and if I have to, I will ask you. And you're so sure you understand all this forest literacy.
It's hard.
Have you seen trees?
'How to count trees?' 'Laughing,' said Stepan Arkadić, all wishing to get his friend out of his bad mood. 'The number of the sands, the rays of the planets, though the mind could be tall...'
'Yes, and the mind of the tall Ryabinin can.'
And no merchant will buy it unless it's given away like you.
I know your forest.
I go hunting there every year, and your woods cost 500 rubles with clean money, and he gave you 200 out.
So you gave him 30 grand.
'Well, have a lot of fun,' said Stepan Arkadych, pitifully, 'why didn't anyone give it to me?'
'Cause he's got a glass of merchants; he gave a traitor.
I've dealt with all of them, I know them.
It's not the merchants, it's the maids.
He's not gonna go on a case where he's gonna get ten, fifteen percent, and he's waiting to buy a 20-pound ruble.
'A lot!
You're insane.
'No,' said Levin sombrely when they came to the house.
At the porch there was already a tight, iron - and - skin - wrapped cart with a tight, wide, fat horse.
There was a tight blood on the cart and a tight underwhelming orderman who served as Ryabinina's coach.
Ryabinin himself was already in the house and met his buddies at the front.
Ryabinin was a tall, skinny middle-aged man with a mustache and a shaved, outstanding chin and convex eyes.
He was wearing a long-sex blue suit with buttons below his butt and high, shrivelled on the pins and straight on the caviar of his boots, over which he wore large calories.
He wiped his face with his handkerchief and, sniffing a snout that was already very good, smiled at them, reaching out his hand to Stepana Arkadyich, as if he wanted to catch something.
'Here you have come,' said Stepan Arkadić, giving him his hand. 'Great.
'Did not dare disobey your Lordship's orders, even though the road was too bad.
He was on foot all the way, but he showed up on time.
Konstantin Dmitrich, my respects,' he turned to Levin, trying to catch his hand as well.
But Levin, frowning, pretended not to notice his hand, and took out the valdshneps. 'Was it fun to be hunted?'
What kind of birds are they going to be? 'He added Ryabinin, looking down on the valdshneps,' said he, 'it tastes.' 'And he shoved his head inconveniently, as if doubting that sheep should be worth the bait.'
'Would you like to go to the office?' 'Smokely frowning,' said Levin in French to Stepan Arkadič. 'Enter the office, you'll have a word there.'
'It is possible, anywhere,' said Ryabinin with contemptible dignity, as if to let others feel that there can be difficulties, as well as who they can handle, but there can never be any difficulties for him.
When Ryabinin entered the office, he looked at the habit of finding an image, but when he found it, he did not cross over.
He looked around the wardrobes and bookshelfs and with the same doubt as about the valdshneps, smiled in contempt and shoved his head unconscionably, no longer allowing this sheep to be worth making.
'Well, did you bring the money?' 'Oblonsky asked.' 'Sit down.
'We will not stand for money.
See you, I've come to talk to you.
'What shall I talk to you about?'
You guys sit down.
'It is possible,' said Ryabinin, sitting down in the most excruciating manner, leaning on the back of the chair. 'Cause you have to give up, Prince.
There will be a sin.
And the money is final, up to a penny.
There's no stopping for money.
Levin, who had put the gun in the closet, had already come out of the door, but when he heard the words of the merchant, he stopped.
'The forest was taken for nothing,' he said. 'He came to me late, or I would have given him a price.'
Ryabinin stood up and, silently with a smile, looked from the bottom up at Levin.
'Very niggardly, Konstantin Dmitrich,' he said with a smile, turning to Stepan Arkadyich, 'you can't buy anything.
I sold wheat, I gave you good money.
'Why would I give you my gift?'
I didn't find it on the ground, and I didn't steal it.
'Have mercy, it is not possible to steal positively at the present time.
It's all final in the present time of public trial, it's all noble today; it's not something to steal.
We spoke in honour.
They put a lot of money in the woods, you can't settle it.
Please give up a little bit.
'Are you out of business or not?
If it's over, there's nothing to bargain for, and if it's not over,' said Levin, 'I buy the woods.
The smile suddenly disappeared from Ryabinin's face. The hawk, the predatory, and the hard expression is on it.
He unwrapped his jacket with his quick bony fingers, opened his shirt for release, copper buttons of a vest and a chain of watches, and quickly pulled out a fat old wallet.
'Perhaps my forest,' he said, quickly crossing and reaching out his hand. 'Take the money, my forest.
This is how Ryabinin sells, not counts,' he spoke, frowning and waving his wallet.
'I wouldn't be in a hurry if I were you,' said Levin.
'Give me mercy,' said Oblonsky with surprise, 'for I have given my word.
Levin left the room, slamming the door.
Ryabinin, looking at the door, shaked his head with a smile.
'All youth, finally childishness is the same.'
'Cause I'm buying, believe in honor, so for the glory of one, this is Ryabinin, not who bought the other from the Oblon grove.
God's gonna let us find the calculations.
Trust God.
Please. It's my duty to write...
An hour later, the merchant sniffed his robe neatly and zipped the hooks with a condition in his pocket, sat in his tight, shackled cart and drove home.
'Oh, these gentlemen! 'He said to the orderman,' said one subject.
'It is as it is,' answered the orderman, handing him the lead and the leather apron. 'And with the purchase, Michael Ignatich?'
'Well, well...
Stepan Arkadić, with the pocket of the series that the merchant had given him three months in advance, went upstairs.
The forest was over, the money was in his pocket, the drive was beautiful, and Stepan Arkadić was in the most fun mood, and therefore he was particularly eager to dispel the bad mood that had struck Levin.
He wanted to finish his day at dinner as pleasant as he had begun.
Indeed, Levin was in a bad mood and, despite all his desire to be gentle and kind with his dear guest, he could not overcome himself.
Hmel of news that Kitty wasn't married began to dissect him a little bit.
Kitty is single and sick, sick from love for the man who neglected her.
It's like an insult that fell on him.
She ignored her, and she ignored them, Levin.
Consequently, he had the right to despise Levin and therefore was his enemy.
But Levin didn't think of all this.
He felt vaguely that there was something offensive about it, and now he was angry not at what upset him, but at everything that seemed to him.
The silly sale of the forest, the deception that Oblonsky was caught in and committed in his house, annoyed him.
'Are you done?' 'He said, meeting Stepan Arkadič upstairs. 'Would you like to have dinner?'
'Yes, I will.
What an appetite I have in my village, a miracle!
Why didn't you offer to eat Ryabinina?
'Oh, damn it!
'But how you treat him! 'Oblonsky said.' 'You didn't give him your hand either.
Why don't you give him your hands?
'Because I'm not a footman, but a footman is a hundred times better.'
'What a retrograde you are, though!
What about the confluence? 'Oblonsky said.'
'To whom it pleases to merge is to health, and to me it disgusts.'
'You, I see, are definitely retrograding.'
'Really, I never thought who I was.
I'm Konstantin Levin, nothing else.
'And Konstantin Levin, who was very disgruntled,' said Stepan Arkadić, smiling.
'Yes, I'm in a bad mood, and you know why?
Oh, excuse me, your stupid sale...
Stepan Arkadić shrivelled well as a man who is innocently offended and displeased.
'A lot! 'He said.' 'When was it that someone would sell something and they wouldn't say to him right after the sale, 'It's worth a lot more?'
As long as they're sold, no one's giving...
No, I see you have a tooth against this poor Ryabinin.
'Maybe there is.
Do you know why?
You're gonna tell me again that I'm retrograding, or what a terrible word, but I'm still sorry and sorry to see it on all sides, the ongoing poverty of the noblery I belong to, and despite the confluence, I'm very glad that I am.
And poverty is not because of luxury; it's nothing; it's a noble thing to live in baroque; it's only nobles who know how to live.
Now the men around us are buying land,' I am not offended.
Barin's doing nothing, man's working, and he's crowding out a idle man.
That's how it's supposed to be. And I'm very happy with the man.
But I'm sorry to see this poverty of some sort, I don't know what to call innocence.
There's a Poliac tenant who bought at half the price from a barn who lives in Nice, a lovely estate.
They're renting a merchant for a tithe of land that's worth ten rubles.
There's no reason you gave it thirty grand.
'So what?' count every tree?
'Certainly counting.
You didn't count, but Ryabinin did.
The children of Ryabinin will have the means to life and education, and yours will probably not!
'Well, I'm sorry, but there's something tiny about that.
We've got our classes, they've got theirs, and they need some air.
Well, it's done, and it's over.
Here comes the frosting, my favorite eggs.
And Agatha Mikhaylovna will give us this herbal woman a wonderful...
Stepan Arkadić sat down at the table and started making jokes with Agatha Mikhaylovna, telling her that he hadn't eaten dinner like this in a long time.
'At least you commend,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna, 'and Konstantin Dmitrich, whatever you give him, even the bread of the crust,' he ate and went.
No matter how hard Levin tried to overcome himself, he was dark and silent.
He had to do one question to Stepan Arkadyich, but he couldn't solve it, and he didn't find the form, the time, the way and the time to make it.
Stepan Arkadić had already gone downstairs, undressed, washed again, put on a frigid nightshirt, and lied down, and Levin was slow in his room, talking about all sorts of trifles, and unable to ask what he wanted.
'As the soap is amazingly done,' he said, looking back and deploying a fragrant piece of soap that Agatha Mikhaylovna had prepared for the guest, but that Oblonsky had not used. 'Look, it's a work of art.
'Yes, everything has now been improved,' said Stepan Arkadych, moist and blissful in the heat. 'Theaters, for example, and these amusing... A-a-a-a-a-a!-he was screaming. 'Electrical light everywhere... ah!
'Yes, electric light,' said Levin. 'Yes.
Well, where's Vronsky now? 'He asked, when he had put the soap.'
'Vronsky?' 'Stepan Arkadič said, stopping the caller,' he was in Petersburg.
He left shortly after you and was never in Moscow.
And you know, Kostya, I will tell you the truth,' he continued, reclining on the table and putting on his hand his beautiful brown face, which glowed like stars, oily, kind, and sleepy eyes. 'It was your own fault.
You were scared of your opponent.
And I, as I told you at the time, &quot; I don &apos; t know whose side there was a better chance.
Why didn't you go through?
I told you the other day that... 'He razored with the same jaws without opening his mouth.
"Does he know or doesn't know I proposed? 'I thought Levin, looking at him.' 'Yeah, there's something tricky, diplomatic about him,' and feeling red, he looked silently into the eyes of Stepan Arkadjić.
'If there was anything on her part at the time, it was a passion for appearance,' continued Oblonsky. 'This, you know, perfect aristocraticism and the future situation in light did not affect her, but rather her mother.
Levin frowned.
An insult to the refusal that he went through, as if fresh as the wound he had just sustained, set him on fire in the heart.
He was at home, and the walls help.
'Wait, wait,' he said, interrupting Oblonski, 'you say, aristocratic.
And let me ask you, what is this aristocratic nature of Vronski or anyone else -- such aristocraticism that I may be neglected?
You think Vronsky's aristocrat, but I'm not.
The man whose father came out of nothing by sneaking around, whose mother God knows who he wasn't with...
No, I'm sorry, but I think the aristocrat of himself and of people like me who in the past can point to three or four honest generations of highly educated families (gift and mind is another matter) and who have never stood up to anyone, never needed anyone like my father, my grandfather.
And I know a lot of them.
It seems low to you that I count trees in the woods, and you give 30,000 to Ryabinina; but you get a rent and I don't know what else, and I don't get it, and that's why I treasure birth and labor...
We are aristocrats, not those who can only exist as handouts from the powerful of this world and who can be bought for double-granded.
'Who are you on?
I agree with you,' said Stepan Arkadić with sincerity and fun, although I felt that Levin, under the name of those who could be bought for a double-granded man, understood him as well.
He really liked Levin's rebirth. 'Who are you on?
Although a lot of things aren't true that you're talking about Vronski, I'm not talking about that.
I'm telling you straight, if I were you, I'd come with me to Moscow and...
'No, I don't know if you know or not, but I don't care. And I will tell you, 'I proposed and got rejected, and Katherina Alexandrovna is now a painful and shameful memory for me.
That's bullshit!
'But let's not talk.
Forgive me, please, if I was rude to you,' said Levin.
Now that he's said everything, he's back to the way he was in the morning. 'Aren't you mad at me, Steve?
Please don't be angry,' he said, and smiled and took his hand.
'No, not at all, not at all.
I'm glad we explained.
You know, morning drive can be good.
Shouldn't we go?
I wouldn't sleep, but I wouldn't sleep at the station.
'And beautiful.
Although his entire inner life was filled with his passion, his outside life was constantly and unbridled by the old, usual tracks of secular and regimental ties and interests.
The Pole's interests occupied an important place in his life, both because he loved the regiment and even more because he was loved in the regiment.
Not only were he loved in the regiment, but he was respected and proud of him, he was proud of the fact that this man, richly rich, with excellent education and abilities, with an open road to all sorts of success and ambition and vanity, ignored all these things and took the interests of the regiment and the comrade closest to the heart of all life's interests.
Holmes was aware of this view of himself and, in addition to loving this life, felt obliged to maintain his view.
It goes without saying that he did not speak to any of his comrades about his love, nor did he speak in the strongest booze (otherwise, he had never been so drunk as to lose control of himself) and shut his mouth to those of his rash comrades who tried to insinuate him with his connection.
But, despite the fact that his love was known to the whole city -- increasingly or less rightly aware of his attitude towards Karenina -- most of the young people envied him precisely what was most difficult in his love -- in Karen &apos; s high position and therefore in his exposure to light.
The majority of young women who envied Anna, who had long been bored of what she was called justice, rejoiced at what they had anticipated and waited only to confirm the circulation of public opinion in order to bring down on her the weight of their contempt.
They've been making the mud balls they're gonna throw at her when the time comes.
Most of the elderly and high-ranking people were displeased with this public scandal.
Wronsky &apos; s mother, having learned of his connection, was initially pleased -- and because nothing, in her mind, gave the last trim to a brilliant young man as a connection in the highest light, and because Karenina &apos; s appeal to her, who spoke so much about her son, was still the same as all beautiful and decent women, as Countess Wronsky &apos; s.
But lately, she learned that her son had abandoned the position offered to him, which was important to his career, only to stay in the regiment where he could see Karenina, she learned that they were not happy with the high rankings, and she changed her mind.
She didn't like what she found out about that connection, either, it wasn't the brilliant, graceful social bond she would approve of, but some sort of verterian, desperate passion, as she was told, that might involve him in foolishness.
She hasn't seen him since his sudden departure from Moscow and demanded, through her eldest son, that he come to her.
The older brother was also displeased with less.
He did not know what kind of love it was, whether it was big or small, passionate or not, vicious or not, (he himself, having children, kept a dancer and was therefore condescending); but he knew that it was love that was not liked by those who needed to be liked and therefore did not approve of his brother's behavior.
In addition to the classes of service and light, Wronski had another occupation -- a horse before which he was a passionate hunter.
This year, officers were assigned to race with obstacles. He signed up for the races, bought an English blood mare, and despite his love, he was passionate, albeit modest, interested in the upcoming races...
Two passions didn't bother one friend.
On the contrary, he needed an activity and a passion independent of his love, in which he freshened up and rested from his overreacting experiences.
On the day of the Red Riders, Vronsky first came to eat beefsteaks in the common hall of the regiment's artifacts.
He didn't have to be very hard on himself, for his weight was exactly the equivalent of four puddings with half; but he shouldn't have fattened up, so he avoided the floury and the sweet.
He sat in a white jacket unbuttoned, reclining on the table with both hands, and, waiting for the book of the French novel on the plate, he looked at the book of the French novel.
He only looked in the book so he wouldn't talk to the incoming and outgoing officers, and he thought.
He thought about Anna's promise to give him a date this afternoon after the races.
But he didn't see her for three days, and because of her husband's return from abroad, he didn't know if it was possible or not, and he didn't know how to find out.
He saw her the last time he saw her at Cousin Betsy's.
He used to drive as little as possible to the Karennas. Now he wanted to go there and think about how to do it.
"I'll tell him Betsy sent me to ask if she's coming to the races.
Of course I will," he decided with himself, raising his head from the book. And as he pictured the happiness of seeing her, he brightened his face.
'Come to my house to be filled with a threesome as soon as possible,' he said to the servant who had given him the beeft on a silver hot dish, and when he had brought the dish, he began to eat.
In the nearby pool hall, balls, talk, and laughter were heard.
Two officers came from the front door: one young, with a weak, thin face, recently coming from the Paže Corps into their regiment; and another puffy, old officer with an arm bracelet and swimming little eyes.
He looked at them, frowned, and began to eat and read together, as if he had not noticed them, touching the book.
'What? Aren't you gonna go back to work? 'The fat officer said, sitting beside him.'
'You see,' he replied, frowning, screaming and not looking at him.
'Aren't you afraid of getting fat? 'He said, turning a chair for a young officer.
'What? 'Wronsky said angryly, making a make-up of disgust and showing his whole teeth.'
'Aren't you afraid of getting fat?
'Man, motherfucker! 'Bronsky said, without answering, and turned the book to the other side, and kept reading.'
A drunk officer took a wine map and turned to a young officer. 'You choose what we drink,' he said, giving him a map and looking at him.
'I think it's Rainway,' said the young officer, shyly touching Vronski and trying to catch a slightly grown mustache with his fingers.
Seeing him not turning around, the young officer stood up.
'Let's go to the pool hall,' he said.
A swollen officer stood up, and they headed towards the door.
At that time, Yashwin's tall and stinted company entered the room and, upstairs, nodded the head of two officers with contempt.
'Ah! There he is! 'He cried, hitting him hard with his big hand on the chase.'
He looked agitated, but immediately his face brightened in a calm and firm lazy way.
'Smart, Alesha,' said the company with a loud baritone. 'Now eat and drink one drink.
'No, you don't want to eat.'
'Here are the inseparable ones,' added Yashwin, laughing at the two officers who were leaving the room at that time.
And he sat by the side of Vronski, bent with sharp corners his very long chairs of stairwells and tibia in narrow reituses. 'Why didn't you stop by the red theater yesterday?'
Noumerova wasn't bad at all. Where have you been?
'I've been sitting at Tversky's,' he replied.
'Ah! 'Yashvin responded.
Yashwin, a player, and not only a man without rules, but with immoral rules,' Yashwin was in the regiment the best friend of Wronsky's.
He loved him and for his extraordinary physical strength, which he showed for the most part by being able to drink like a barrel, not to sleep, and still to be the same, and for the great moral strength he displayed in his dealings with his superiors and comrades, causing fear and respect, and in the game he played for tens of thousands and always, despite the wine he drank, so thinly and firmly that he was considered the first player in the English club.
He respected and loved him, especially because he felt that Yashvin loved him not for his name and wealth, but for himself...
And of all the people with him, he'd like to talk about his love.
He felt that Yashwin alone, even though he seemed to despise any feeling, &quot; one seemed to understand the strong passion that now filled his whole life.
Besides, he was convinced that Yashwin probably no longer finds pleasure in gossip and scandal, and he understands that feeling as he should, that is, knows and believes that this love is not a joke, not a joke, but something more serious and more important.
He did not speak to him about his love, but he knew that he knew everything, understood everything as he should, and he was pleased to see it in his eyes.
'Oh, yes! 'He said that he was at Tversky's, and shiny with his black eyes, he took up the left moustache, and began to fill it in his mouth, according to his bad habit.'
'Well, what did you do yesterday?
You win? 'Wronsky asked.'
'Eighty thousand.
Three isn't good, I don't think he's gonna give it to me.
'Well, you can lose for me,' he said, laughing.
(Yashwyn had a big bet on Vronski.)
'I will never lose.' 'One Mahotin is dangerous.
And the conversation went to the expectations of the current race, which was the only one he could think of now.
'Come on, I'm done,' he said, and went up to the door.
Yashwin stood up, too, stretching his huge legs and long back.
'It's too early for me to have lunch, and I have to have a drink. I'll be right there. Hey, wine! 'He cried out to his celebrity in command, thick and trembling the glass with a voice.' 'No, don't,' he cried again immediately. 'You're home, so I'll go with you.
And they went with Vronski.
Vronsky stood in a spacious and clean, heated over the Chukhonian besiege.
Petritzki lived with him in the camps.
Petritzki slept when Vronsky and Yashvin entered the house.
'Get up, sleep,' said Yaszwin, walking behind the partition and pushing behind his shoulder with a nose in the pillow of a cracked Petrisky.
Petritzka suddenly jumped on his knees and looked back.
'Your brother was here,' he said. 'He woke me up, damn it, said he'd come again. 'And again, putting on a blanket, he threw himself on a pillow. 'Leave it, Yashwin,' he said, angry with Yashwin, who was carrying a blanket from him. 'Leave it! 'He turned and opened his eyes. 'You'd better tell me what to drink; it's so gross in your mouth that...'
'Vodka is the best,' Yashvin tried. 'Tereshchenko! "The vodka of the barn and the cucumber," he yelled, apparently listening to his voice.
'Vodka, do you think? Huh? 'I asked Petritzka, wrinkling and rubbing my eyes.' 'Are you going to drink?'
Together, let's drink!
Vronsky, will you have a drink? 'Peteritzkah said, standing up and wrapping himself under his arms in a tiger blanket.' He walked out the door of the partition, raised his hands and sang in French: "There was a king in Tu-u-le." 'Vronski, will you have a drink?'
'Get out,' said Wronsky, who was wearing a smurf served by a footman.
'Where's that going? 'Yashvin asked him.' 'Here comes the three,' he added when he saw the wheelchair coming.
'To the stables, and I also need to see Bryansky about the horses,' he said.
He really promised to be with Bryansky, ten versts from Petergof, and to bring him money for horses; and he wanted to be there in time.
But the comrades immediately realized that he was just going to the wrong place.
Petritzka, as he continued to sing, winked with his eye and gutted his lips, as if we knew what the Bryansky was like.
'Don't be late! 'Yashvin only said, and to change the conversation, 'What good is my old-fashioned?' 'He asked, looking out the window, about the native he sold.'
'Wait! 'Peteritzki cried out to the one who had already left Wronski.' 'Your brother left you a letter and a note, wait, where are they?
Vronsky's stopped.
'Well, where are they?
'Where are they?
That's the question! 'Speaks a solemn Petritzki, pointing up from his nose with his index finger.
'Tell me, it's stupid! 'Smileing,' said Vronsky.
'I didn't drown Kamina.
Here somewhere.
'Well, that's a lot of lies!
Where's the letter?
'No, I forgot.
Or did I dream?
Wait, wait!
What's the matter with you?
If, like me, you had four bottles on your brother yesterday, you'd forget where you were.
Wait, I'll remember!
Petritzki went behind the partition and lay on his bed.
'Wait!
That's how I lay down, that's how he stood.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah...
That's it! 'And Petritzka took the letter out of the mattress where he hid it.
Wronsky took a letter and a note from his brother.
It was what he expected -- a letter from his mother blaming him for not coming, and a note from his brother saying that he needed to talk.
Vronsky knew it was all about the same thing.
"What's their business?" 'I thought, and when I erased the letters, I shoved them between the buttons of the suture, to read them carefully.'
Two officers, one of them and the other of the regiment, met him in the blues.
Wronsky's apartment has always been the home of all officers.
'Where to?
'We have to go to Petergof.
'And the horse came from the king?'
'I've come, I haven't seen it yet.
'They say Mahotina Gladiator is dead.
'This is nonsense!
How are you gonna get through this mess? 'The other said.'
'Here are my saviors! 'Screaming, seeing those who entered, Petritzkay, standing before him with a vodka and a pickle of salt on the tray.' 'Here's Yashwin telling me to drink to freshen up.
'Well, you asked us yesterday,' said one of those who came, 'they kept us awake all night.
'No, how did we end up! 'I told Petritzka,' said the wolf climbed the roof and said he was sad.
I say, give me the music, the funeral march!
He fell asleep on the roof under the funeral march.
'Drink, drink vodka, and then celery water, and a lot of lemon,' said Yashwin, standing over Petritzki, as a mother forcing the child to take the medicine, 'and then champagne a little bit,' said the bottle.
'That's clever.
Wait, Wronsky, let's have a drink.
'No, goodbye, gentlemen, I do not drink today.
'Are you gonna make it harder?'
Well, we're alone.
Give me celery water and lemon.
'Vronsky! 'Someone screamed when he was going out in the hay.'
'What?
'You'd cut your hair, 'or you'd have heavy hair, especially bald hair.'
It's really premature to start spitting.
He laughed, showing his teeth, and put his hat on the bald, and went out and sat in the wheelchair.
'To the stables! 'He said, and he got the letters to read them, but then thought not to have fun until the horse was examined.' -- "Next time"...
The temporary stable, the blackboards, was built by the hippodrome itself, and his horse was to be brought there yesterday.
He hasn't seen her yet.
In these last few days, he did not travel on his own, but instead assigned a coach, and now he was determined not to know what condition his horse was in.
As soon as he came out of the wheelchair as the stables of his (grum), the so-called boy, after learning from afar his wheelchair, called the coach.
A dry Englishman in tall boots and a short jacket, with a piece of hair left only under his chin, a poor jockey walk, splintering his elbows and swinging, came out facing.
'What about Fru-Fru? 'Wronsky asked in English.'
'All right, sir -- all is right, sir,' said an English voice somewhere inside his throat. 'You better not go,' he added by raising his hat. 'I put on a muzzle, and the horse is agitated.
It's better not to go, it's bothering the horse.
'No, I'll come in.
I'd like to see it.
'Come on,' said the Englishman, yet without opening his mouth, frowning, and waving his elbows, went forward with his loose walk.
They entered the yard in front of the barracks.
A duty officer, wearing a clean jacket, a dressed, handsome boy, with a broom in his hand, met those who entered and followed them.
In the barracks, there were five horses in the afternoons, and Wronsky knew that he was about to be brought in and stood by his main rival, the red-haired five-step Gladiator of Mahotin.
Even more than his horse, he wanted to see Gladiator, whom he had not seen; but he knew that under the law of horse hunting, not only could you not see him, but it was indecent to ask about him.
While he was walking down the hallway, the boy opened the door to the second day on the left, and he saw a reddish big horse and white legs.
He knew it was the Gladiator, but with the feeling of a man turning away from someone else's open letter, he turned away and approached Fru-Fr.
'The horse is here, Ma-K...'
Mac... I can never say that name,' said the Englishman over his shoulder, pointing a big, dirty finger at Gladiator's diary.
'Mahotina?'
Yeah, that's one serious opponent of mine,' said Wronsky.
'If you were driving it,' said the Englishman, 'I would hold for you.
'Fru-Fru is more nervous, he is stronger,' said Vronsky, smiling at the praise of his ride.
'It's all about driving and pluck with obstacles,' said the Englishman.
Pluck, i.e., energy and courage, not only felt enough about himself, but, more importantly, he was firmly convinced that no one in the world could have this cloak more than he did.
'Do you know that there was no need for more sweat?'
'No need,' answered the Englishman. 'Please don't speak loudly.
The horse is anxious,' he added, nodding his head on a locked daylight, before which they stood and where he heard his legs turned on the straw.
He opened the door, and Wronsky entered a poorly lit window of one small window in the afternoon.
In the middle of the day, there was a karaco horse with a muzzle.
Once again, when he looked around in the middle of the day, he hugged his beloved horse with one common view.
Fru-Fru was the average height of a horse and was not immaculate by the statues.
She was all narrow to the bone; although her breast was very forward, her breast was narrow.
The butt was a little whistled, and the legs of the front, and especially the back, had a significant cosop.
The mice of the hind and front legs were not particularly large; however, the horse was unusually wide in the submersible, which was particularly striking now, with its soak and fried abdomen.
The bones of her legs below her knees didn't seem thicker than her finger, looking forward, but they were incredibly wide, looking at the side.
It's all, except for the ribs, like it was squeezed off the sides and pulled deep into it.
But she had a high quality that made her forget all the flaws; that quality was blood, the blood that affects, in English expression.
Sharply protruding muscles from under the net lived in thin, moving and smooth as atlas, skin, seemed as strong as bone.
Her dry head, with convulsive shiny, hilarious eyes, expanded at the snoring into outstanding nostrils with blood poured inside her.
In the whole figure, and especially in her head, there was a certain energy and tender expression together.
She was one of those animals that didn't seem to talk just because the mechanical device of their mouth wouldn't allow them to do that.
At least it seemed like she understood everything he felt now when he looked at her.
As he entered her, she drew the air deeply into her body, and with her convulsive eye, the squirrel was filled with blood, on the opposite side, looking at the infidels, shaking the muzzle and reclining from the foot to the leg.
'Well, you see how excited she is,' said the Englishman.
'Oh, honey! Oh!-- said the Vronskis, walking up to the horse and talking her into it.
But the closer he came, the more worried she was.
It was only when he came up to her head that she suddenly became quiet, and her muscles shook under thin, tender wool.
He ironed her strong neck, fixed her sharp grooved on the other side a string of grooves, and turned his face towards her stretched, thin as the wing of a bat, and nostrils.
She pulled the air out of the tense nostrils, groaning, pinched the sharp ear, and pulled out a strong black lip to Bronski, as if to catch him by the sleeve.
But when she remembered the muzzle, she shook them and again began to move one after the other her fine legs.
'Calm down, sweetheart, calm down! 'He said, touching her with his hand on the butt, and with the joy of knowing that the horse was in the best condition, he came out of the day.'
The horse's excitement also came to mind; he felt that blood was pouring into his heart, and that, like horses, he wanted to move, to bite; it was also terrible and fun.
'Well, I hope so,' he said to the Englishman, 'at six and a half in place.
'It's all right,' said the Englishman. 'Where are you going, my lord? 'He asked, suddenly using the name my-Logd, which he almost never used.
He was surprised to raise his head and to see how he could look, not in the eyes, but at the forehead of an Englishman, wondering at the courage of his question.
But when he realized that the Englishman did not look at him as a master, but as a jockey, he said to him:
'I have to go to Bryansky. I'll be home in an hour.
"This is the time I've been asked this question!" 'He said to himself, and he blushed, which he rarely had.
The Englishman looked closely at him. And as if he knew where he was going, he added:
'The first thing is to be calm before driving,' he said, 'don't be spirited or upset.
'All right,' he smiled, replied, and jumped into the wheelchair and told him to go to Peterhof.
As soon as he drove a few steps away, like a cloud that threatened the rain in the morning, she swerved, and it was raining.
"Bad! 'Cause he thought, lifting up the stroller. 'And it was filthy, and now it's gonna be a swamp.'
Sitting in the privacy of a private wheelchair, he obtained his mother's letter and his brother's note and read them.
Yeah, it was all the same.
Everyone, his mother, his brother, found it necessary to interfere in his heart.
This intervention provoked anger in him -- a feeling he rarely felt.
"What do they care?
Why does everyone feel obliged to take care of me?
And why are they bothering me?
Because they see that it's something they can't understand.
If it was just a dirty social bond, they'd leave me alone.
They feel that it's something else, that it's not a toy, that woman is worth my life.
And that doesn't make sense, and that's why they're upset.
Whatever fate is and will not be ours, we have made it, and we do not complain about it,' he said, in a word we connect ourselves to Anna. 'No, they need to teach us how to live.
They have no idea what happiness is, they don't know that without that love we have neither happiness nor misery -- no life," he thought.
He was angry with everyone for interfering precisely because he felt in his heart that they, all of them, were right.
He felt that the love that linked him to Anna was not a momentary passion that would pass through the way the social bond goes, leaving no trace of either in his life, except for pleasant or unpleasant memories.
He felt all the excruciatingness of his situation, all the difficulty in showing up to the eyes of all the world in which they were, hiding their love, lying and lying; and lying, cheating, scheming, and constantly thinking about others when the passion that bound them was so strong that they both forgot about everything other than their love.
He vividly remembered all the often repeated cases of the need for lies and deception that were so repulsive to his nature; he remembered, on several occasions, her sense of shame for this need for deception and lies.
And he had a strange feeling that, since his association with Anna, he had sometimes found on him.
It was an awful feeling about something: Alexei or Alexandrovich or himself or the whole world -- he didn't know very well.
But he's always driven away that weird feeling.
And now that I'm shaking, I've kept on thinking.
"Yeah, she used to be unhappy, but proud and calm, and now she can't be calm and worthy, even though she doesn't show it.
Yes, it must come to an end,' he decided with himself.
And for the first time, he had a clear idea that it was necessary to stop this lie, and the sooner the better.
"To throw everything to her and to me and to hide somewhere alone with his love," he said to himself.
The lion was short, and when Vronsky drove all over the rats of the natives, pulling them out of the mud with no lead, the sun looked out again, and the roofs of the dach, the old lypes of gardens on both sides of the main street glittered with wet glitter, and the branches had fun drips, and water ran from the roofs.
He had no idea how the rain would spoil the hippodrome, but was now glad that the rain would probably catch her at home and alone, since he knew that Aleksey Alexandrovich, who had recently returned from the waters, had not moved from Petersburg.
In the hope of finding her alone, Wronsky, like he always did in order to pay less attention to himself, tears, without moving the bridge, and walked.
He didn't walk on the porch from the street, but he walked into the yard.
'Did Barin come?' 'He asked the gardener.'
'No, I'm not.
The lady's home.
Yes, from the porch you are, and there are people there, and they will burn,' answered the gardener.
'No, I will come from the garden.
And after making sure that she was alone, and wanting to catch her by surprise, because he didn't promise to be today, and she certainly didn't think that he would come before the races, he went, supporting the sword and carefully walking along the sand of the flowered path to the terrace that went out into the garden.
He now forgot what he thought dearly about the gravity and difficulty of his situation.
He thought about one thing, that now he's going to see her in more than one imagination, but alive, all that she really is.
He had already entered, walking in his whole leg, not to make any noise, according to the steps of the terrace, when he suddenly remembered what he had always forgotten and what was the most painful aspect of his relationship to her -- her son with his questioner, who he thought was disgusting.
The boy was most likely an obstacle to their relationship.
When he was here, not only did he not allow himself to talk about something they couldn't repeat in front of everyone, but they wouldn't even let themselves insinuate what the boy wouldn't understand.
They did not collude about it, but it came to their senses.
They would consider it an insult to themselves to deceive this child.
They used to talk to each other like they knew each other.
In spite of this caution, he often saw the child's thoughtful and inconvenient look at him and the strange shyness, roughness, tenderness, coldness, and shyness toward him.
It's like a child felt that there was an important relationship between this man and his mother that he can't understand.
Indeed, the boy felt that he could not understand the relationship, and he worked hard and could not understand the feeling that he should have for that man.
With a child &apos; s sensitivity to feeling, he clearly saw that the father, the governess, the nanny -- not only did they not like him, but they looked at him with disgust and fear, even though they did not say anything about him, but that his mother looked at him as his best friend.
"What does that mean?
Who is he?
How should you love him?
If I don't understand, it's my fault, or I'm a stupid boy, or a bad boy," the child thought, and it led to his testative, questionable, somewhat uncooperative expression, and the shyness, and the roughness, which so embarrassed him.
The presence of this child has always been a source of the strange sense of odor that he has experienced lately.
The child &apos; s presence in Wronsk and Anna gave rise to a feeling similar to that of a sailor who saw him on the compass, that the direction he was moving quickly was far apart from the right direction, but that it was not in his power to stop the movement, that every minute he removed him from the right direction, and that to confess to his retreat was like confessing to his death.
The child with his naive view of life was a compass that showed them the extent of their deviation from what they knew but didn't want to know.
This time, Serezha was not home, she was completely alone and sat on the terrace, waiting for the return of her son, who had left to walk and was caught in the rain.
She sent a man and a girl to look for him and sat waiting.
Dressed in white with a broad sewing dress, she sat in the corner of the terrace behind the flowers and did not hear it.
By leaning down her blackheaded head, she pressed her forehead to a cold leukee standing on the railings, and by both her beautiful hands, with rings so familiar to him, she held on to the leuka.
The beauty of all her shapes, her heads, her necks, her hands, every time, by surprise, was astounded by Wronsky.
He stopped looking at her with admiration.
But just now he wanted to step up to get close to her, she already felt him coming, pushed her leukka away, and turned her hot face towards him.
'What is the matter with you?
Are you ill? 'He said in French, approaching her.
He wanted to run to her; but when he remembered that he could have been a stranger, he looked back at the balcony door and blushed as he blushed every time, feeling that he had to be afraid and look back.
'No, I am healthy,' she said, raising her hand and shaking it firmly. 'I wasn't expecting... you.
'Oh, my God! How cold your hands are! 'He said.'
'You scared me,' she said. 'I am alone, and I wait for Serezha; he went for a walk; they will come from here.'
But even though she was trying to be calm, her lips were shaking.
'Excuse me for coming, but I couldn't spend a day without seeing you,' he continued in French, as he always said, avoiding the impossible-cold between them you and dangerous you in Russian.
'Forgive me for what?'
I'm so glad!
'But you are not well or sad,' he continued, without letting out her hands and bent over her. 'What were you thinking?
'All about one thing,' she said with a smile.
She was telling the truth.
Whenever, at any moment, she was asked what she was thinking, she could answer without mistake: one, her happiness, and her misfortune.
She was thinking now that he caught her, that's what she was thinking, why for others, for Betsy, for example (she knew her hidden connection to Tuskevich), it was easy, and it was so painful for her?
Today, this thought, for some reasons, has particularly tormented her.
She asked him about the races.
He answered her and, seeing that she was excited, trying to entertain her, began to tell her the simplest tone of the race preparations.
"Say or not? 'I thought she looked into his calm, gentle eyes.' 'He is so happy, so busy racing; that he will not understand it properly, he will not understand all the significance to us of this event.'
'But you didn't tell me what you were thinking when I came in,' he said, interrupting your story, 'please tell me!'
She didn't answer, and she leaned a little over his head and looked down at him, asking questions about her shiny eyes because of the long eyelashes.
Her hand, playing with a ripped leaf, was shaking.
He saw it, and his face expressed the submission, the slave devotion that so bribed her.
'I see that something has happened.'
Can I be calm for a minute knowing that you have a grief I don't share?
Tell me for God's sake!
"Yeah, I won't forgive him if he doesn't understand the meaning of it.
You'd better not tell me why you're testing it." 'I thought, still looking at him and feeling that her hand was shaking more and more with the leaf.'
'For God's sake!' he repeated, taking her hand.
'Tell me?
'Yes, yes, yes...'
'I am pregnant,' she said, quietly and slowly.
The leaf in her hand trembled even more, but she kept an eye on him to see him take it.
He turned pale, wanted to say something, but stopped, released her hand and lowered his head.
"Yes, he understood the meaning of this event," she thought, and shook his hand gratefully.
But she was wrong that he understood the meaning of the news the way she, a woman, understood it.
But he realized that the crisis he wanted would come now, which could no longer be hidden from his husband, and that it was rather an unnatural situation that needed to be broken in one way or another.
But in addition, her anxiety was physically communicated to him.
He looked at her with a humble, humble look, kissed her hand, stood up and walked on the terrace silently.
'Yes,' he said, speaking with determination. 'Neither I nor you looked at our relationship as a toy, and now our fate has been resolved.'
It is necessary to come to an end,' he said, looking back -- the lie in which we live.
'To finish?'
How can I end it, Alexei? 'She said quietly.'
She calmed down now, and her face glowed with a soft smile.
'Leave our husband and unite our lives.'
'It is connected and so,' she answered a little bit.
'Yes, but not at all, not at all.
'But how, Alexei, teach me how? 'She said with a sad mockery of the insolence of her position. 'Is there a way out of this situation?
Aren't I my husband's wife?
'There is a way out of every situation.
We have to make up our minds,' he said. 'It is better than the situation you live in.
I can see how you're tormented by everything, by the light, by the son, by the husband.
'Oh, not husband,' she said, laughingly. 'I don't know, I don't think about him.
He's gone.
'You speak indistinctly.
I know you.
You're tormenting him too.
'He doesn't even know,' she said, and suddenly the bright paint appeared on her face; the cheeks, the forehead, her neck turned red, and the tears of shame appeared upon her eyes. 'And let's not talk about him.
He has tried several times, albeit less decisively than now, to bring her into the discussion of his situation and has faced each time with the superficiality and ease of judgment with which she has now met his challenge.
As if there was something about it that she couldn't or didn't want to understand, as if, as soon as she started talking about it, she, the real Anna, went out and performed, another strange, strange woman, who he didn't love and fear and who stood up to him.
But now he's decided to say everything.
'Whether he knows or not,' he said with his usual firm and calm tone, 'if he knows or not, we don't care.
We can't... you can't stay like this, especially now.
'What do you think I should do?' 'She asked with the same simple ridicule.'
She, who was so afraid that he wouldn't accept her pregnancy easily, was now disappointed that he had to do something about it.
'Tell him everything and leave him.
'Very well; let's say that I will do it,' she said. 'Do you know what's going to happen?
I'm gonna tell you everything, and the evil light lit in her in a minute in front of those gentle eyes. 'Ah, do you love someone else and have a criminal connection with him?' (She, representing her husband, did, just like Alexis Alexandrovich did, a slap on the word of crime.)
I warned you of the consequences of religious, civil and family relations.
You didn't listen to me. Now I can't give my name to shame -- and my son -- she wanted to say, but she couldn't joke with her son -- shame with her name, and something like that, she added. 'In fact, he will speak with his state manner, and with clarity and precision, that he cannot let me go, but will take measures that depend on him to stop the scandal.
And he's gonna do what he says, and he's gonna do what he says.
Here's what's gonna happen.
It's not a man, it's a machine, and it's an angry car when it gets angry,' she added, remembering him with all the details of his figure, the manner of speaking and his character, and blaming him for everything she could find in him, not forgiving him of anything for the terrible guilt she was responsible for.
'But, Anna,' he said with a strong, soft voice, trying to calm her, 'it is necessary to tell him, and then to be guided by what he will do.
'Well, run?'
'Why not run?'
I don't see a way to go on with this.
And not for yourself,' I see that you are suffering.
'Yes, run, and I shall be your mistress?' 'She said evilly.'
'Anna! 'He spoke abbreviatedly and gently.'
'Yes,' she continued, 'to become your mistress and to destroy everything...
She wanted to say son again, but she couldn't speak that word.
He could not understand how she, with her strong, honest nature, could bear this position of deception and would not want to leave it; but he did not know that the main reason for it was the word of the son, whom she could not speak.
When she thought of her son and his future relationship with her mother's father, she was so scared that she did what she did, that she didn't reason, but, as a woman, tried only to calm herself with false reasoning and words, so that everything would remain the same and that the terrible question of what would happen to her son could be forgotten.
'I beg you, I beg you,' she suddenly said with a very different, sincere and gentle tone, taking his hand, 'never speak to me about it!
'But Anna...
'Never.
Leave it to me.
All the low ground, all the horror of my position, but it's not as easy to decide as you think.
And leave it to me, and listen to me.
Don't ever talk to me about it.
Do you promise me?
No, no, promise!
'I promise you everything, but I can't be calm, especially after what you said.
I can't be calm when you can't be calm...
'I!' she repeated. 'Yes, I suffer sometimes; but it will pass if you never talk to me about it.
When you talk to me about it, it's the only thing that hurts me.
'I don't understand,' he said.
'I know,' she interrupted him, 'how hard it is for your honest nature to lie, and I pity you.
I often wonder how you ruined your life for me.
'I thought the same thing now,' he said, 'how could you sacrifice everything because of me?
I can't forgive myself for being unhappy.
'Am I unhappy?' 'She said, drawing near to him and with an enthusiastic smile of love looking at him,' I was like a hungry man who was given to eat.
Maybe he's cold, and his dress is torn, and he's ashamed, but he's not happy.
Am I unhappy?
No, here's my happiness...
She heard the voice of the returning son and stood up with a quick look at the terrace.
Her eyes lit up with a fire familiar to him, she raised her beautiful, ringed hands quickly, took his head, looked at him with a long look, and drew her face close with open, smiling lips, kissed his mouth and both eyes, and pushed away.
She wanted to go, but he held her.
'When? 'He whispered, looking at her with joy.'
'Now, at one o'clock,' she whispered and, with a heavy sigh, took her light and swift step towards her son.
Serezha found it raining in a big garden, and she and the nanny sat in a gazebo.
'Well, goodbye,' she said. 'Now we must go to the races soon.
Betsy promised to pick me up.
When he looked at the watch, he left in haste.
When he looked at the watch on the Kareni balcony, he was so anxious and busy with his thoughts that he saw the shooters on the dial, but couldn't figure out what time it was.
He went out on the highway and headed out carefully, walking in the mud, towards his wheelchair.
He was so full of feelings for Anna that he didn't think about what time it was and whether he still had time to go to Bryansky.
He had, as is often the case, only the external capacity of memory, indicating what was then decided to do.
He came up to his doll, who was lying on the goat's head in the shadow of a thick lip, admired the rolling poles of the fly-throwers over the dense horses, and when he woke up the punter, he jumped into the wheelchair and told him to go to Bryansky.
As soon as he drove off at number seven, he remembered so much that he looked at the clock and realized that it was half past six and that he was late.
On that day, there were several races: the race of the convoy, then the double-track officer, the quadruple officer, and the race in which he raced.
He could be on time for his race, but if he goes to Bryansky, that's the only way he's gonna be here, and he's gonna be there when the yard is all over.
That wasn't good.
But he gave the Bryanian word to be with him, so he decided to move on, ordering the coach not to regret the three.
He came to see Bryansky, stayed at his place for five minutes and bounced back.
That quick drive calmed him down.
All the hard things that he had in his relationship with Anna, all the uncertainty that remained after their conversation, came out of his head; he now thought with pleasure and excitement about the race, about the fact that he was going to catch up, and sometimes waiting for the happiness of this night's date was a bright light in his imagination.
The feeling of the upcoming race was becoming more and more intense as he moved further and further into the racing atmosphere, overtaking the crews from the road and from Petersburg to the races.
There was no one at home in his apartment; everyone was at the races, and his footman was waiting at the gate.
While he was changing his clothes, the footman told him that the second race had already begun, that many gentlemen had come to ask about him and the boy had used the stable twice.
When he changed without haste (he never rushed or lost his self - control), he told him to go to the barracks.
He had already seen from the barracks a sea of crews, pedestrians, soldiers surrounding the hippodrome, and baking gazebos.
There was probably a second race, 'cause while he was walking into the barn, he heard a call.
As he approached the stables, he met a white redhead by Gladiator Mahotin, who had been led to the hippodrome in orange with blue ponds, apparently large, blue ears.
'Where's Cord? 'He asked the stable boy.'
'In the stables, sitting.
Fru-Fru was already sedentary in the open day.
They were gonna take her out.
'Are you late?'
'All right! All right!
It's all right, it's all right,' said the Englishman, 'Don't be excited.
He once again looked at the lovely, loving shapes of the horse, trembling the whole body, and, having had difficulty breaking away from the sight, came out of the barracks.
He drove up to the gazebos at the best possible time to avoid paying attention to himself.
A double-track race just ended, and all eyes were set on a cavalry-garde in front and a leib-gusar in the back, from the last forces of the horse chasers who approached the pole.
From the middle and the outside of the circle, everyone was drawn to the pillar, and a cavalry group of soldiers and officers spoke loudly, expressing the joy of their officer and comrade &apos; s expected celebration.
In the middle of the crowd near the same time as the call was made to end the race, and the tall, mud - splashed cavalierard, who came first, fell down on the saddle, began to let down the leash to his grey, sweat - dark, hard - breathing stallion.
The stud, poking his legs hard, shortened his large body's rapid motion, and the Cavalergard officer, like a man who woke up from a heavy sleep, looked around and barely smiled.
A crowd of people and strangers surrounded him.
Wronsky deliberately avoided the chosen, great - lighting crowd, which moved with restraint and freedom and talked in front of the gazebos.
He found out that there was both Karenna and Betsy and his brother's wife, and deliberately, not to have fun, did not approach them.
But his constant acquaintances stopped him by telling him the details of his former races and asking him why he was late.
While the jockeys were called to the gazebo and all turned to the prizes, the eldest brother of Vronski, Alexander, the colonel with the exelbants, the low height, the same as Alexei, but more handsome and brown, with a red nose and a drunken, open face, approached him.
'Did you get my note? 'He said.' 'You will never be found.
Alexander Vronsky, despite the public, especially the drunken, life by which he was known, was quite a courtman.
Now, speaking to his brother about a very unpleasant thing for him, knowing that the eyes of many could be pointed at them, he looked as if he were joking with his brother.
'I've got it and, right, I don't know what you care about,' said Alexei.
'I care that I have now been seen, that you are not here, and that you were met at Peterhof on Monday.
'There are cases to be discussed only by those who have a direct interest in them, and the case you care so much about is...'
'Yes, but then they don't serve, not...'
'I ask you not to interfere, that's all.
Alexei's frowny face paled, and his outstanding lower jaw shuddered, which rarely happened to him.
As a man with a very kind heart, he was rarely angry, but when he was angry and his chin shivered, he was dangerous, as Alexander Wronsky knew.
Alexander Wronsky smiled funny.
'I just wanted to deliver my mother's letter.
Answer her and don't get upset before you drive.
Bonne chance,' he added, smiling, and walked away from him.
But after him again, the friendly greeting stopped Wronski.
'You don't want to know your buddies!
Hello, Mon cher! 'Stepan Arkadič spoke, and here, among this Peterburg glitter, no less than in Moscow, blazing with his blazing face and lazy buckenbards. 'I came yesterday, and I am very glad to see you celebrate.
When will I see you?
'Come into the artery tomorrow,' he said, 'and after shaking it, apologizing for the sleeve of the coat, went to the middle of the hippodrome, where the horses had already been introduced for the big race with obstacles.
The sweaty, exhausted horse rides carried by the stables went home, and one after another came new to the upcoming race, fresh, much larger parts of English horses, in caporas, with their curled bellies, like strange giant birds.
To the right was toast to the beautiful Fru-Fru, who, as in the springs, had crossed her elastic and rather long moneys.
It wasn't far from her that she was taken from a gladiator's loaf.
The large, adorable, perfectly correct shapes of a stallion with a wonderful butt and unusually short, over the hoofs of the women who sat down, were reluctant to pay attention to him.
He wanted to approach his horse, but he was detained again by a friend.
'Oh, here's Karenin!' said a friend he spoke to. 'Cause she's looking for a wife, and she's in the middle of a gazebo.
Didn't you see her?
'No, I didn't,' he replied, and without looking back at the gazebo that pointed to Karenina, he approached his horse.
Before he could see the saddle that had to be ordered, the jumpers were called to the gazebo to remove the numerals and send--
With serious, strict, many with pale faces, 17 officers joined the gazebo and removed the number.
Wronsky's got the seventh number.
I heard, "Sit down!"
Feeling that he, along with the other jumpers, formed a center on which all his eyes were oriented, he came to his horse in a tense state in which he was usually slow and calm in his movements.
Cord to celebrate the races dressed in his front suit: a black tucked-up suit, tight-knuckled collars sticking his cheeks, and a round black hat and botforts.
He was as calm and important as ever and held a horse for both reasons standing before her.
Fru-Fru continued to trembling like a fever.
The full fire of her eyes touched the match of Vronsky.
Wronsky put his finger under the edge.
The horse moved harder, rolled around and pressed her ear.
An Englishman wrinkled his lips to express a smile over believing his saddle.
'Sit down, you will be less concerned...'
Wronski looked back at his rivals for the last time.
He knew he wouldn't see them on the train anymore.
Two of them were already on their way to where they were supposed to go.
Galcin, one of the dangerous rivals and a friend of Vronsky's, was circling around a rotten stallion who wouldn't let him sit down.
A little leib gusar in a narrow range was driving a gallop, bent like a cat on a croup, out of a desire to imitate the English.
Prince Kuzovlev sat pale on his blood factory, the Grabian factory, a mare, and an Englishman led her to the woods.
Vronsky and all his comrades knew Kuzovlev and his specialty of "weak" nerves and awful egoism.
They knew that he was afraid of everything, that he was afraid to ride the front horse; but now, precisely because it was scary, because people were breaking their necks, and that every obstacle had a doctor, an infirmary forelock with a broken cross and a sister of mercy, he decided to ride.
They met with their eyes, and he winked sweetly at him.
He's the only one he hasn't seen, the main rival, Mahotin on Gladiator.
'Don't rush,' said Cord to Vronsky, 'and remember one thing: Don't stop at the obstacles and don't send them, let her choose what she wants.
'All right, all right,' he said, taking the lead.
'If possible, race; but do not despair until the last minute if you are from behind.'
The horse did not have time to move, as he became a flexible and strong movement into a steel, serrated drive, and easily, firmly placed his broken body on the squeaking skin of the saddle.
By taking his right foot in pursuit, he used his usual gesture to equalize the double strings between his fingers, and Cord put his hands on it.
It's like not knowing how to walk before, Fru-Froux, pulling out a long neck lead, touched like a spring, shaking a sedica on her flexible back.
Cord followed him in his steps.
The anxious horse was on that side, and on the other hand, in an effort to deceive the sedox, and drew out the leash, and he tried, in vain, with his voice and with his hand, to calm her down.
They were already approaching the springed river, heading for where they were supposed to come from.
Many of the jumpers were in the front, many in the back, as he suddenly heard the sound of the horse's halo from behind him, and he was overrun by Mahotin on his white, gladiator's elbow.
Mahotin smiled at his long teeth, but he looked angry at him.
He didn't love him at all, now he thinks he's the most dangerous rival, and he's pissed at him for slipping past his horse.
Fru-Froux boiled her left leg on a gallop and made two jumps and, angry with the tension, moved on to a trembling rat that boiled the sedox.
Cord frowned, too, and almost ran in pursuit of Vronski.
Seventeen people jumped all the officers.
The races were to take place in a large quadruple elliptical circle in front of the gazebo.
There were nine obstacles in this circle: a river, a large one, in two arches, a deaf barrier in front of the gazebo itself, a ditch dry, a ditch with water, a coshoe, an Irish canister consisting of (one of the most difficult obstacles) of a moal, hidden wood, which was followed by a ditch, which was invisible to the horse, so the horse had to jump both obstacles or kill itself; then two other ditchs with water and one dry one -- and the end of the race was against the gazebo.
But the races were not from a circle, but from a hundred to a distance, and at that distance there was the first obstacle -- a springed river into three arches of width, which at random could jump or move the raft.
Three trips were straightened out, but each time a horse came out, and I had to stop by again.
The launcher, Colonel Cestrin, started to get angry when he finally cried out for the fourth time, "Come on!" &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and the rides were touched.
All the eyes, all the binoculars were turned to a bunch of horsemen while they were leveled.
"Let's go!
They're jumping!" &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I heard from all sides after the silence of the waiting. &gt;&gt;
And piles and lonely pedestrians started running from place to place to see better.
At the first minute, a assembled bunch of riders stretched out, and you could see that they were two, three and one at a time, approaching the river...
For the audience, it seemed that they all went together; but for the riders, there were seconds of difference that mattered to them.
Worried and too nervous Fru-Fru lost the first moment, and several horses took it from its place before it, but, while not yet racing the rivers, Wronsky, with the best of his ability to contain the horse in the leash, went through three easily, and only the ginger Gladiator Mahotina was left with him, who kicked his butt in front of the Vronski himself, and the adorable Diana, who was not alive or dead Kuzovlev, was still in front of all of them.
In the first few minutes, he did not yet own himself or a horse.
He couldn't control the horse's movements until the first obstacle, the rivers.
The gladiator and Diana came together and almost at the same moment: once, climbed over the river and flew to the other side; secretly, as if flying, Fru-Fru followed them, but at the same time as he felt in the air, he suddenly saw, almost under the feet of his horse, Kuzovlev, who was racing with Diana on the other side of the river (Kuzovljev had given guidance after jumping, and the horse flew over his head with him).
Now he's only seen what's in front of the Fru-Fru's feet or Diana's head.
But Fru-Fru, like a fallen cat, made an effort on the jump with her legs and her back and, passing the horse, moved on.
"Oh, honey!" 'Cause he thought.
After the Vronski River, he mastered the horse well and began to hold it, intending to cross the big barrier behind Mahotin and already at the next, impenetrable distance of two hundred to try to bypass it.
The big barrier stood in front of the king's largest gazebo.
The king, and the entire court, and the multitudes of the people -- they all looked at them -- at him and at the horse's distance ahead of Mahotin when they came to hell (so called the deaf barrier).
He felt these eyes directed at him from all sides, but he saw nothing but the ears and neck of his horse, running towards the ground and the croup and the white feet of the Gladiator, who quickly beat him up and stayed at the same distance.
The gladiator went up without knocking anything, waved a short tail and disappeared from the eye of Vronski.
'Bravo! 'Said someone with one voice.'
At the same moment, the boards of the barrier were shone in front of him, in front of him.
Without the slightest change of movement, the horse rose under it; the boards ran away, and there was something in the back.
Hot by the leading Gladiator, the horse rose too early in front of the barrier and hit him with a back hoove.
But it didn't change, and when he got a lump of dirt in his face, he realized that he was back at the same distance from Gladiator.
He saw again his croup, his short tail, and again the same unlucky, fast-moving white legs.
The moment he thought that he had to go around Mahotin, Fru-Fru himself, realizing what he had already thought, without any encouragement, put a lot of pressure on him and began to approach Mahotin from the best side, on the side of the rope. Mahotin didn't give the ropes.
The way Fru-Fru changed her leg and started to go around like that was just thinking about what could be bypassed by the outside.
Fru-Fru's shoulder began to become darker than Gladiator's croup. A few jumps they went by.
But in the face of the obstacle they came up to, when he did not go through a large circle, he began to work as a guide, and quickly, on the surface, Mahotin was bypassed.
He saw a little bit of his face splashed with dirt. He even thought he was smiling.
While he was walking around Mahotin, he felt him with him right now, and he could not stop hearing behind his back a flat leap and a distancing, still fresh breath of Gladiator's nostrils.
The next two obstacles, a ditch and a barrier, were easily crossed, but he began to hear Gladiator's boots and rods closer.
He sent a horse and was happy to feel that it had easily increased the pace, and the sound of Gladiator's hooves was heard again at the same distance.
That's what he wanted to do and what Cord advised him to do, and now he was confident of success.
His excitement, joy, and tenderness to the Fru-Fru were increasing.
He wanted to look back, but he didn't dare do it, and he tried to calm himself and not send horses to save a supply like the one he felt at Gladiator.
There remained one and the most difficult obstacle; if he passed it ahead of others, he would be the first to come.
He was bouncing up to the Irish canteen.
Together with Fru-Fru, he had seen this feast from afar, and together with them both, he and the horses, there was an instant doubt.
He noticed the indecision in the horse's ears and raised the whip, but immediately felt that the doubt was unfounded: the horse knew what was needed. It also measured itself, just as he thought it would, and pushed away from the ground, and gave up the force of inertia, which carried it far beyond the ditch; and in the same manner, without effort, from the same foot, Fru-Fru continued the leap.
'Bravo, Vronsky! 'He heard the voices of a bunch of people -- he knew his regiment and his friends -- who stood in the way of that obstacle; he couldn't help but recognize Yashwin's voice, but he didn't see it.
"Oh, my darling!" 'I thought he was on Fru-Fru, listening to what was happening in the back.'
"It's over!" 'He thought, when he heard the Gladiator coming from behind.'
There was one last groove with water in two arches.
While he did not look at her, he wanted to be the first to go, working in a round - up manner, raising and lowering the horse's head.
He felt that the horse was coming from the last supply; not only her neck and shoulders were wet, but on the groove, on the head, on the sharp ears, sweated, and she breathed abruptly and briefly.
But he knew that the supply of this would be too much for the remaining two hundred seedlings.
Only because he felt closer to the ground, and because of the special gentleness of his motion, he knew how much his horse's speed added.
She flew over as though she had not noticed it as a bird; but at this very time he felt, to his horror, that, having not kept up with the horse's movement, he himself had made a bad, unforgivable move, falling down on the saddle.
Suddenly his situation changed, and he realized something terrible had happened.
He wasn't yet aware of what had happened, just as his white legs of a red horse had been crushed, and Mahotin had passed by at a fast race.
He was touched by one foot on the ground, and his horse fell on that leg.
He barely had time to get out of his leg, as she fell on one side, snoring heavily, and, in order to rise up, in vain efforts with her thin sweaty neck, she shuddered on the ground at his feet like a bird that had been shot.
The awkward movement made by Vronski broke her back.
But he figured it out a lot after.
Now all he saw was that Mahotin was moving away quickly, and he was standing alone on a filthy, stationary ground, and in front of him, breathing hard, lay Fru-Froux, and turned her head over to him, staring at him with her lovely eye.
Still don't understand what happened, he pulled a horse for a reason.
Once again, she was full of fish, cracking her saddle's wings, spun out her front legs, but she couldn't lift her arse, and immediately went over and fell on her side again.
With a disfigured face, a pale face, and a shaking lower jaw, he hit her with a heel in the stomach, and again began to pull the lead. But she didn't move, and when she snored into the ground, she looked at the master with her talking look.
'Aaah! 'Cause he was squeezing and grabbing on his head. 'Aaah! I don't know what I did! 'He screamed.' 'And a lost race!
And my guilt, shameless, unforgivable!
And that poor, sweet, destroyed horse!
Ahh! I don't know what I did!
People, doctor and nurse, his regiment officers ran to him.
Unfortunately, he felt unharmed.
The horse broke its back and decided to shoot it.
He couldn't answer questions, he couldn't talk to anyone.
He turned around and didn't lift the hat off his head, he went away from the hippodrome, not knowing where he was.
He felt unhappy.
For the first time in his life, he experienced the worst misery, the most incorruptible disaster, and the kind in which he had his own wine.
Yaszwyn with a hat caught up with him, walked him home, and half an hour later he came to his senses.
But the memory of this race has long remained in his soul the most painful and painful memory of his life.
Alexey Alexandrovich's external relationship with his wife was the same as before.
The only difference was that he was even more busy than before.
As in previous years, with the opening of spring, he went to the waters abroad to improve his annual hard-working winter health and, as usual, returned in July and immediately took up his regular work with increased energy.
As usual, his wife moved him for the day, and he stayed in Petersburg.
Since that conversation after the evening at Princess Tverska's, he has never spoken to Anna about his suspicions and jealousy, and that ordinary tone of someone's performance was no more convenient for his current relationship with his wife.
He was a little colder to his wife.
He only seemed to have a little displeasure with her for the first night talk she turned away from herself.
In his relationship with her, there was a shade of displeasure, but no more.
"You didn't want to explain yourself to me," he said, thinking to her, "the worse for you.
Now you're gonna ask me, and I'm not gonna explain myself.
Even worse for you,' he said in his mind, as a man who tried in vain to put out the fire, would be angry with his vain efforts and would say, "So on you! You're gonna burn for it."
He, this smart and thin man in the line of duty, didn't understand all the madness of this attitude towards his wife.
He did not understand it because he was too afraid to understand his real situation, and he closed, locked and sealed the box in which he had his feelings for his family, that is, his wife and son.
Since the end of this winter, he, a caring father, has become particularly cold with his son and has had the same tremor with him as with his wife.
"Ah! "You're a young man!" 'He turned to him.'
Alexey Alexandrovich thought and said that in no year had he had as much service business as he had in the present; but he did not realize that he himself was making things up for himself this year, that it was one of the means to not open the box where his feelings for his wife and his family and his thoughts about them lay and that they were scarier the longer they lay there.
If anyone had the right to ask Alexei Alexandrovich what he thought of his wife's behavior, the mild, humble Alexi Alexandrovich would not answer, but would be very angry with the man who would ask him about it.
That's what made Alexei Alexandrovich's face look like something proud and strict when he was asked about his wife's health.
Alexey Alexandrovich didn't want to think about his wife's behavior and feelings, and he really didn't think about it.
Alexey Alexandrovich's constant gift was in Petergof, and usually the Countess Lydia Ivanovna lived there in the summer, in her neighborhood, and in her regular relationship with Anna.
This year, Countess Lydia Ivanovna refused to live in Petergof, never visited Anna Arkadievna, and insinuated Alexei Alexandrovich with the inconvenience of bringing Anna closer to Betty and Vronski.
Alexey Alexandrovich strictly stopped her, suggesting that his wife was above suspicion, and since then he has avoided Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
He did not want to see or see that many people were already looking at his wife in light, and he did not want to understand or understand why his wife insisted in particular on moving to the Czars, where Betsy lived, where he was not far from the camp of the Vronski regiment.
He did not allow himself to think about it, nor did he think about it; yet he knew, in the depths of his heart, that he had never said it to himself and had no proof of it, but had no doubt that he had been deceived by his husband, and was deeply unhappy.
How many times during his eight-year happy life with his wife, when he looked at other false wives and cheated husbands, he said to himself, "How can I let this happen? How can we not untie this monstrous situation?"
But now that the trouble was on his head, not only did he not think about how to untie it, but he didn't want to know it, he didn't want to know it just because it was too horrible, too unnatural.
Since his return from abroad, he has been at the service twice.
On one occasion he had lunch, and on another occasion he spent the evening with his guests, but he never spent the night, as he used to do in earlier years.
The race day was a very busy day for Alexei Alexandrovich; but as soon as he had made his day schedule, he decided that immediately after early lunch he would go to his wife's house and from there to the races where he would be at the yard and where he would have to be at.
He's going to visit his wife because he's decided to visit her once a week for decency.
In addition, on that day, he had to hand over to his wife by the 15th, in order of expenditure.
With ordinary authority over his thoughts, after considering all this about his wife, he did not allow his thoughts to spread further about what had touched her.
It was very busy with Alexei Alexandrovich this morning.
The day before, Countess Lydia Ivanovna sent him a brochure from a famous traveler in China in Petersburg asking him to receive the traveler himself, the man, for various reasons, very interesting and appropriate.
Alexei Alexandrovich did not read the brochure in the evening and finished reading it this morning.
Then there were the applicants, the reports, the receptions, the appointments, the removal, the distribution of the awards, the pensions, the salaries, the correspondence -- the day-to-day business he was called Alexanderovich, who took so much time.
Then there was a case file, a doctor's visit, and a case manager's visit.
The manager didn't take long.
He just gave Alexey Alexandrovich the money he needed and gave a brief account of the state of affairs that were not very good, as it happened that this year, due to frequent departures, had lived longer, and there was a deficit.
But the doctor, the famous Peterburg doctor, who was in a friendly relationship with Alexei Alexandrovich, took a long time.
Alexei Alexandrovich did not wait for him today, and he was surprised by his arrival and even more so by the fact that the doctor had asked him very carefully about his condition, listened to his chest, knocked and felt his liver.
Alexey Alexandrovich did not know that his friend Lydia Ivanovna, noting that the health of Alexey Alexandrovich was not good this year, asked the doctor to come and see the patient.
"Do it for me," said Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'I will do it for Russia, Countess,' answered the doctor.
'A priceless man! 'The Countess Lydia Ivanovna said.'
The doctor was very displeased with Alexei Alexandrovich.
He found the liver significantly enlarged, the food reduced, and no water action.
He ordered as much physical movement as possible and as little mental tension as possible and, above all, no sadness, that is, what was impossible for Alexei Alexandrovich as not to breathe; and he left, leaving in Alexei Alexandrovich with an unpleasant consciousness that something was wrong in him and that it could not be corrected.
When he left Alexei Alexandrovich, the doctor encountered a well - known human on the porch, the ruler of Alexei Alexandrovich's affairs.
They were college buddies and, although they rarely met, respected each other and were good buddies, and therefore, as Sluddin, the doctor would not express his frank opinion of the sick.
'How glad I am that you were with him,' said Sluddin. 'He's not good, and I think...
Well?
'And here is what,' said the doctor, waving over Sluddin''s head to his pitcher to serve. 'This is what,' said the doctor, in his white hands, taking the finger of a sticky glove and putting it on. 'Don't pull the strings and try to break them -- very difficult; but pull to the last opportunity and put the weight of your finger on the tight string -- it will burst.' And he, because of his sensitivity, his integrity to work -- he's gonna push to the last degree; and the pressure from the outside is, and the pressure is hard -- concluded the doctor, raising his eyebrows considerably. 'Will you be at the races?' 'He added it to his carriage.' 'Yes, yes, of course, it takes a lot of time,' answered the doctor, saying something similar to what was said by the public and not heard by him.
After a doctor who took so much time, a famous traveler appeared, and Aleksei Alexandrovich, using the brochure just read and his previous knowledge of the subject, struck the traveler with the depth of his knowledge of the subject and the breadth of his enlightened look.
The traveler was informed of the arrival of the leader of the Republic who had arrived in Petersburg and had to have a word with him.
After his departure, the day-to-day class with the ruler of the case had to be completed, and a serious and important case had to be visited by a significant individual.
Alexey Alexandrovich just got back to his five o'clock, lunchtime, and after having lunch with the ruler of the business, invited him to ride with him to the gym and to the races.
Without giving up on that report, Aleksandrovich was now looking for a third person on his date with his wife.
Anna stood upstairs in front of the mirror, pinning Anna's last bow on the dress when she heard the sounds of squeezing wheels at the entrance.
"It's too early for Betsy," she thought, and when she looked out the window, she saw a carriage and a black hat coming out of it and so familiar to her ears with Alexei Alexandrovich.
"Wouldn't you care to sleep?" 'She thought, and she felt so awful and awful all that could come out of it, that, without a moment's thought, with a merry and shining face, she came out to meet them and felt the presence of a spirit of lies and deception already familiar to her, immediately gave up on that spirit and began to speak, not knowing herself what she would say.'
'Oh, that's cute! 'She said, giving her hand to her husband and a smile, saying hello to the man of the house, the man of the people.' 'You're sleeping, I hope? 'It was the first word that gave her the spirit of deception,' and now we are going together.
It's just too bad I promised Betsy.
She'll pick me up.
Alexey Alexandrovich sniffed in the name of Betsy.
'Oh, I will not separate the inseparable,' he said with his usual tone of joke. 'We will go with Michael Vasiljevic.
The doctors tell me to go.
I'll walk the road and pretend I'm on the water.
'There is no rush,' said Anna. 'Would you like some tea?' 'She called.
'Give me some tea and tell Serezha that Alexis Alexandrovich is here.
So, how's your health?
Michael Vasiljevic, you were not with me. Look how good I am on the balcony,' she said, turning to him and to the other.
She spoke very simply and naturally, but too much and too soon.
She felt it herself, especially since in the curious look that Michael Vasiljevic had looked at her, she noticed that he had seen her.
Michael Vasiljevic immediately went to the terrace. She sat next to her husband.
'You don't look very good,' she said.
'Yes,' he said, 'the doctor was with me today and took an hour.
I feel like one of my friends sent him, so precious to my health...
'No, what did he say?'
She asked him about his health and activities, encouraged him to rest and move in with her.
All of this she spoke fun, quickly, and with special glitter in her eyes; but Alexei Alexandrovich no longer attributed any importance to this tone.
He heard nothing but what she said, and gave them nothing but what they had a clear meaning.
And he answered her simply, even though it was funny.
The whole conversation was nothing special, but never without painful pain was Anna able to remember the whole short scene.
Serezha, before the governess, came in.
If Alexei Alexandrovich had allowed himself to observe, he would have noticed a shy, confused look at what Serezha looked at his father and then his mother.
But he didn't want to see or see anything.
'Ah, young man!
He grew up.
That's right, it's a man's job.
Hello, young man.
And he gave his hand to the scared Serezha.
Serezha, who was previously shy about his father, now that he had become a young man and a mystery about his friend or enemy, was a stranger to his father.
He, like, asked for protection, looked back at his mother.
He was happy with one mother.
In the meantime, when he spoke to the governess, he held his son by his shoulder, and Serezha was so painfully embarrassed that Anna saw that he was going to cry.
Anna, who was blushing the minute the son came in, noticed that Serezha was uncomfortable, quickly jumped up, lifted up her son's hand, and kissed his son, and led him to the terrace, and immediately returned.
'But it is time,' she said, looking at her watch, 'that it is Betsy who is not going!'
'Yes,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, and stood up, laid his hands and beat them. 'I've come to bring you some more money, because the nightingale is not fed,' he said. 'You need, I think.'
'No, you don't... yeah, you do,' she said, without looking at him and blushing to the root of his hair. 'You, I think, will come here from the races.'
'Yes! 'Alexei Alexandrovich answered. 'Here comes the beauty of Petergof, Princess Tver of Tver,' he added, looking out the window into English, in coats, a crew with an extremely high-mounted tiny body of a wheelchair. 'What obnoxiousness!
Beautiful!
Well, let's go, too.
Princess Tverska didn't leave the crew, but she was in stiblets, diaper, and a black footman's hat.
'I'm coming, goodbye! 'Anna said, and when she kissed her son, she came to him, and reached out to him.' 'You're very nice to be here.
Alexei Alexandrovich kissed her hand.
'Well, goodbye.
You're gonna stop by for tea, and it's great! 'She said, and came out, shining and merry.'
But as soon as she stopped seeing him, she felt the place on her hand that his lips touched and freaked out.
When Alexey Alexandrovich showed up at the races, Anna was already sitting in a gazebo next to Betsy, where the entire high society was gathering.
She saw her husband from afar.
Two men, husband and lover, were two centres of life for her, and without the help of external feelings, she felt close to her.
She felt her husband's approach from afar, and she followed him involuntarily in the waves of crowds between which he was moving.
She saw him coming up to the gazebo, then condescendingly responding to the scrambling bowels, friendlyly welcoming him with equals, carefully waiting for the eyes of the powerful and taking off his round large hat pressing the tips of his ears.
She knew all these tricks, and they were all disgusting to her.
"One ambition, one desire to make it -- that's all that's in his soul --" she thought, "and high considerations, love of education, religion, all these are just tools to make it happen."
According to his views on the ladies' gazebo (he looked straight at her, but did not recognize the wife in the sea of kisei, ribbons, feathers, umbrellas, and flowers), she realized that he was looking for her; but she deliberately ignored him.
'Alexei Alexandrovich! 'The Princess Betsy cried out to him,' you surely do not see his wife; here she is!
He smiled with his cold smile.
'There's so much glitter in here that his eyes were torn apart,' he said, and went to the gazebo.
He smiled at his wife, as his husband should smile, meeting his wife, whom he had just seen, and said hello to the princess and other acquaintances, paying tribute to everyone, i.e. by joking with the ladies and by extending greetings to the men.
At the bottom of the gazebo, there was a respected Aleksandrovich, known for his intelligence and education as Adjutant General.
Alexei Alexandrovich spoke to him.
There was a distance between the races, so nothing prevented the conversation.
The Adjutant General condemned the races.
Alexei Alexandrovich objected to defending them.
Anna listened to his thin, smooth voice, not missing a single word, and every word of it seemed false to her and pained her ear.
When the quadruple race began with obstacles, she leaned forward and, without letting down her eyes, looked at a horse that was approaching and sat down, and at the same time heard this disgusting, uneasy voice of her husband.
She was apprehensive of Wronski, but was even more tormented by those who remained silent, she thought the sound of her husband's fine voice with familiar tones.
'I am a bad woman, I am a dead woman,' she thought, 'but I don't like lying, I hate lying, and his (husband) food is a lie.
He knows everything, sees everything; how does he feel if he can speak so calmly?
If he killed me, if he killed Vronski, I'd respect him.
But no, he only wants lies and decency," Anna said to herself, without thinking about what she wanted from her husband, what she wanted him to be.
She also did not realize that the current particular word - addictiveness of Alexey Alexandrovich, who was so annoying to her, was merely an expression of his inner anxiety and anxiety.
Just as a child who had been killed, jumping, brought his muscles into the movement to silence the pain, so it was necessary for Alexey Alexandrovich to have a mental movement to silence those thoughts about his wife that required attention in her presence and in the presence of Wronsky and the constant repetition of his name.
And just as it was natural for a child to jump, so it was natural for him to speak intelligently.
He said, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
'The danger in the racing of the military, the Cavalry, is a necessary condition for the racing.
If England can point to the most brilliant cavalry affairs in military history, it is only because it has historically developed this power of animals and humans.
Sport, in my opinion, is important, and, as always, we see only the most superficial.
'Not superficial,' said Princess Tversky.
One officer is said to have broken two ribs.
Alexey Alexandrovich smiled with his smile, just opening his teeth, but not saying anything else.
'Let's say, Princess, that it is not superficial,' he said, 'but internal.
But it is not the case -- and he again turned to the general whom he spoke seriously -- remember that the military, who chose these activities, will ride, and agree that every calling has its backside of the medal.
This is directly the responsibility of the military.
The ugly sport of fist fighting or Spanish threads is a sign of barbarism. But specialized sport is a sign of development.
'No, I won't go another time; I care too much,' said Princess Betsy. 'Isn't that right, Anna?
'It's exciting, but you can't lose it,' said the other lady. 'If I were a Roman, I wouldn't miss any circus.
Anna didn't say anything, and without letting down the binoculars, she looked at the same place.
At that time, a high general was passing through the gazebo.
After interrupting his speech, Alexis Alexandrovich quickly rose up and bowed low to a former military officer.
'Do you not ride? 'He was joking with the military.'
'My race is harder,' answered Alexi Alexandrovich respectfully.
And although the answer didn't mean anything, the military pretended to get a smart word from a smart man and fully understood la pointe de la sauce.
'There are two sides,' he continued, 'the performers and the spectators; and the love of these shows is the surest sign of underdevelopment for the audience, I agree, but...
'The Princess, bet! 'Heared from the bottom the voice of Stepan Arkadyich, who spoke to Betsy. 'Who do you hold for?'
'Anna and I are for Prince Kuzovlev,' replied Betsy.
'I'm in favour of Vronsky.
A couple of gloves.
'It's coming!
'How beautiful is it, isn't it?
Alexei Alexandrovich silenced while talking near him, but immediately started again.
'I agree, but manly games...' he continued.
But while they were driving, all the conversations stopped.
Alexei Alexandrovich also shut up, and everyone went up and turned to the river.
Alexey Alexandrovich wasn't interested in racing, so he didn't look at the racing, but he'd wandered around the viewers with tired eyes.
His look stopped at Anna.
Her face was pale and strict.
She obviously saw nothing but one.
Her hand was squeezing the fan, and she wasn't breathing.
He looked at her and turned away in haste, looking at other faces.
"This lady and others are also very excited; it's very natural," he said to himself.
He didn't want to look at her, but his eyes were drawn to her.
He looked back at that face, trying not to read what was so clearly written on it, and, against his will, he read with horror what he did not want to know.
Kuzovlev's first fall on the river moved everyone, but Alexandria saw clearly on Anna's pale, triumphant face that the one she was looking at did not fall.
When Mahotin and Vronski jumped over the big barrier, the next officer immediately fell on the head and fell dead and sounded terror across the public, he saw that Anna had not even noticed it and had difficulty understanding what they were talking about.
But more and more and more and more obstinately, he looked into it.
Anna, caught up in the sight of his husband's cold eyes, felt at the side of her eyes.
She looked back for a moment, looked at him questionably, and, frowning a little bit, she turned away again.
'Oh, I don't care,' said she as if she had told him and never looked at him again.
The races were unhappy, and more than half of the 17 people fell and crashed.
By the end of the race, everyone was in a state of excitement, which was further increased by the fact that the king was displeased.
Everyone expressed their displeasure, everyone repeated someone's phrase, "The only thing missing is a lion circus," and everyone felt awful, so when Vronski fell and Anna fell loudly, there was nothing unusual about it.
But there was a change in Anna's face that was already indecent.
She's completely lost.
She started fighting like a caught bird, and she wanted to get up and go somewhere, and she was talking to Betsy.
'Let's go, let's go,' she said.
But Betsy didn't hear her.
She spoke, leaning down, with the general who approached her.
Alexey Alexandrovich approached Anna and kindly gave her his hand. 'Come, if you will,' he said in French; but Anna listened to what the General said and did not notice her husband.
'I broke my leg, too, they say,' said the General. 'It doesn't look like anything.
Anna did not answer her husband, and lifted up the binoculars, and looked at the place where he had fallen: but it was so far away, and there was so many people there that nothing could be taken apart.
She dropped the binoculars and wanted to go; but in the meantime, the officer jumped and reported something to the king.
Anna leaned forward, listening.
'Steve!
Steve! 'She cried out to her brother.
But my brother didn't hear her.
She wanted to come out again.
'I offer you my hand again, if you want to go,' said Alexandrovich, touching her hand.
She repulsed away from him, and without looking him in the face, she said,
'No, no, leave me alone, I will stay.'
She now saw an officer running across the circle from the scene of the fall of Vronski to the gazebo.
Betsy waved his handkerchief.
The officer brought the news that he didn't kill himself, but the horse broke its back.
After hearing this, Anna quickly sat down and closed her face with a fan.
Alexey Alexandrovich saw that she was crying and couldn't contain not only the tears but also the tears that raised her breasts.
Alexei Alexandrovich blocked her, giving her time to recover.
'For the third time I offer you my hand,' he said in a few minutes, turning to it.
Anna looked at him and didn't know what to say.
Princess Betsy came to her rescue.
'No, Alexis Alexandrovich, I took Anna away, and I promised to take her away,' Betsy intervened.
'Excuse me, Princess,' he said, graciously smiling, but looking firmly into her eyes, 'but I see that Anna is not well, and I wish she would come with me.
Anna looked back, stood up in submission, and put her hand on her husband's hand.
'I will send him, I will find out, and I will send him,' whispered Betsy to her.
At the exit of Alexi Alexandrovich, as always, spoke to those who met, and Anna had to answer and speak, as always; but she was not herself, and as she was in sleep with her husband.
"Did you kill yourself or not?
Really?
Is he coming or not?
Will I see him today?" 'I thought she did.'
She sat silently in the carriage of Alexei Alexandrovich and left the crew in silence.
Despite everything he had seen, he did not allow himself to think of his wife's real situation.
He's only seen external signs.
He saw that she was being indecent, and thought it was his duty to tell her that.
But it was very difficult for him not to say more, but to say only that.
He opened his mouth to tell her how indecent she was, but he said something completely different.
'How, however, we are all prone to these violent sights,' he said. 'I notice...
'What? I don't understand,' said Anna in contempt.
He was insulted and immediately began to say what he wanted.
'I must tell you,' he said.
"Here's the explanation," she thought, and she got scared.
'I must tell you that you are indecent these days,' he said to her in French.
'What misbehaved me with?' 'She said loudly, turning her head toward him and looking him straight into his eyes, but no longer with the previous cover-up, but with a strong view under which she could hardly hide her fear.'
'Don't forget,' he said to her, pointing to an open window against the coachman. He climbed up and picked up the glass.
'What did you find indecent?' &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;She repeated. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;She repeated it.
'That despair you couldn't hide in the fall of one of the riders.
He waited for her to object; but she did not speak when she looked before her.
'I have already asked you to keep yourself in the light so that the wicked tongues could not speak against you.
There was a time when I was talking about internal relations; I wasn't talking about them.
Now I'm talking about external relations.
You've been naughty, and I wish it hadn't happened again.
She didn't hear half of what he said, she was afraid of him, and she was wondering if it was true that Vronsky hadn't killed himself.
Did they say he was safe and the horse broke his back?
She only pretended to laugh when he came out, and she didn't answer anything because she didn't hear what he said.
Aleksey Alexandrovich began to speak with courage, but when he understood clearly what he was saying, the fear she was feeling came to his attention.
He saw that smile, and a strange mistake came upon him.
"She smiles at my suspicions.
Yeah, she's gonna say what she said to me that time, that there's no reason for me to suspect that it's funny."
Now that the discovery of everything was hanging over him, he wanted nothing more than to make her, as in the past, ridiculously answer him that his suspicions were ridiculous and unfounded.
It was so scary that he knew he was ready to believe everything now.
But the expression of her face, frightened and dark, no longer promised even deception.
'Maybe I'm wrong,' he said. 'In that case, I apologize.'
'No, you were right,' she said slowly, looking desperately at his cold face. 'You were right.
I was, and I can't help being desperate.
I listen to you and think about him.
I love him, I'm his mistress, I can't bear it, I'm afraid I hate you...
Do what you want to me.
And when she leaned into the corner of the carriage, she wept, closing her hands.
Alexei Alexandrovich did not move, nor did he change the direct direction of his eyes. But all of his face suddenly accepted the solemn immobility of the dead, and the expression did not change all the time before delivery.
As he drove up to the house, he turned his head towards her with the same expression.
'That's it!
But I demand that the external conditions of decency be respected until then -- his voice trembled -- while I take measures to ensure my honour and report them to you.
He went ahead and dropped her off.
As a servant, he shook her hand in silence, sat in a carriage and left for Petersburg.
He was followed by a footman from Princess Betsy and brought Anna a note:
"I sent Alexei to learn about his health, and he writes to me that he is well and well, but desperate."
"That's how he's gonna be!" she thought. 'How well I did that I told him.'
She looked at the watch.
There were still three hours left, and the memories of the last date's details lit up her blood.
"Oh, my God, it's so light!
It's scary, but I love to see his face and I love this fantastic light...
Husband! Uh, yeah...
Well, thank God it's over."
Just as in all the places where people gather and in the little German waters where Shcherbatsky arrived, a normal kind of crystallization of society has taken place, defining a certain and permanent place for every member of society.
As definitely and consistently a piece of water on the cold gets a known form of snow crystal, so that every new person who came to the water was immediately placed in his own place.
Fürst Scherbatsky Castle Gemalin und Tohter, and at the apartment they occupied, both by name and by the acquaintances they found, immediately crystallized into their designated and designated location.
There was a real German Fustin on the waters this year, so the crystallization of society was even more vigorous.
The Princess certainly wished to introduce her daughter to the Princess and performed the ritual on the second day.
Kitty sat low and gracefully in her discharge from Paris, a very simple, very dressy summer dress.
The princess said, "I hope the roses will soon return to this pretty face," and for the Scherbatskys, at once, certain ways of life were firmly established, from which no one could ever come out.
The Shcherbatskys met both the English lady's family and the German countess and her wounded son in the last war, and the Swedish scientist, and M. Canut and his sister.
But the main society of Shcherbatsky was composed of a Moscow lady, Maria Eugenia Rtishcheva, with a daughter who was unpleasant to Kitty because she was sick, just like her, from love, and a Moscow colonel, whom Kitty had seen and known since childhood in a uniform and epolet, and who here, with his little eyes and open neck in a coloured tie, was incredibly funny and bored by the fact that he could not be separated.
When all this was so firmly established, Kitty became very bored, especially since the prince had gone to Karlsbad and she was left alone with her mother.
She was not interested in those she knew, feeling that nothing would be new from them.
Her main interest in the waters was now observations and guesses of those she did not know.
Kitty's character always meant the most beautiful things in people, especially those she didn't know.
And now, guessing who -- who, what relationship they had and what kind of people they were, Kitty was imagining the most amazing and beautiful things and finding confirmation in her observations.
She was particularly occupied by a Russian girl who came to the water with a sick Russian lady, Madame Stahl, as all of her names were.
Madame Stahl belonged to the highest society, but she was so sick that she couldn't walk, and it was only on rare good days that she appeared in the water in a wheelchair.
But not so much in sickness as in pride, as the Princess explained, Madame Stahl was not familiar with any of the Russians.
The Russian girl looked after Madame Stahl and, as Kitty noticed, she came together with all the seriously ill people who were on the water and took care of them in the most natural way.
This Russian girl, Kitty observed, was not related to Madame Stahl, nor was she a hired assistant.
Madame Stahl e-mailed her Varenka, and others called "m-lle Varenka".
Not to mention Kitty's interest in observing the girl's relationship with Ms. Stahl and other strangers, Kitty, as is often the case, has had an unexplained sympathy for this m-lle Varenka and has felt that she likes her...
M-lle Varenka wasn't the first time he was young, but as a creature without youth: it could have been given 19 and 30 years.
If you look at her features, she was more beautiful than bad, despite the painful color of her face.
It would have been well built had it not been for too much body dryness and a disproportionate head in average height; but it should not have been attractive to men.
It looked beautiful, though full of petals, but already blooming, without the smell of flowers.
Moreover, she could not be attractive to men also because she lacked what was too much in Kitty -- the restrained fire of life and the consciousness of her appeal.
She always seemed to be engaged in a business in which there could be no doubt, and therefore there seemed to be no interest in anyone else.
By contrast, she was particularly attracted to Kitty.
Kitty feels-- the fact that in her warehouse of life, she's gonna find a sample of what she's looking for now: the interests of life, the dignity of life -- beyond Kitty &apos; s disgusting secular relations, girls to men who now represent her as a disgraceful display of goods waiting for buyers.
The more Kitty saw her unknown friend, the more she became convinced that the girl was the most perfect creature she had ever imagined, and the more she wanted to meet her.
Both girls met several times a day, and at each meeting, Kitty's eyes said, "Who are you? What are you doing?
Isn't it true that you're the lovely creature I'm imagining you?
But do not think, for God's sake,' added her look, 'that I allow myself to be forced into acquaintances.
I'm just looking at you and I love you." 'I love you, too, and you are very, very nice.
And I would have loved you even more if I had the time," the eye of an unknown girl answered.
And indeed, Kitty saw that she was always busy either taking the children of the Russian family out of the water, or carrying a blanket for the patient and tucking her in, or trying to entertain the annoying sick person, or choosing and buying cookies for someone else's coffee.
Soon after the arrival of the Shcherbatskys, there were two other persons on the morning waters who took a common unfriendly look.
It was a very tall, slutty man with huge hands, short, not tall, and an old coat, with black, naive, and scary eyes, and a jabby-looking woman, very bad and tastelessly dressed.
Having recognized these as Russians, Kitty has already begun to write a beautiful and touching novel about them in his imagination.
But the Princess, learning from Curlist that it was Levin Nikolai and Maria Nikolaevna, explained to Kitty what a bad man Levin was, and all the dreams of these two men disappeared.
Not so much because her mother told her, but because it was Konstantin's brother, these faces suddenly seemed very unpleasant to Kitty.
This Levin now excites her with his habit of gripping her head with an irresistible sense of revulsion.
She felt that there had been feelings of hatred and ridicule in his large, fear - inspiring eyes, and that she had tried to avoid meeting him.
It was a bad day, it rained all morning, and those with umbrellas were crowding in the gallery.
Kitty went with his mother and with a Moscow colonel who was having fun in his European, bought a jacket ready for him in Frankfurt.
They walked on one side of the gallery, trying to avoid Levin walking on the other side.
Varenka, in her dark dress, in black, with her hat bent down, walked with a blind French woman all over the length of the gallery, and every time she met Kitty, they had a friendly look.
'Mom, can I speak to her? 'Kiti said, following her unknown friend and noticing that she was approaching the key and that they could get together with him.'
'Yes, if that's what you want, I'll find out about her first, and I'll come over myself,' replied her mother. 'What did you find special in her?
The company must be.
If you want, I'll meet Madame Stahl.
I knew her belle-sooeur, and I added a princess, raising her head proudly.
Kitty knew that the Princess was offended by Ms. Stahl &apos; s failure to meet her.
Kitty didn't insist.
'A miracle, how lovely! 'She said, looking at Varenka, while she was serving a glass to the French woman. 'Look how simple it is, lovely.
'It is hilarious for me,' said the Princess, 'no, let's go back,' she added, noting his move toward Levin with her lady and with the German doctor, with whom he spoke loudly and angryly.
They turned around to go back, and suddenly they weren't hearing a loud talk, they were screaming.
Levin stopped and screamed, and the doctor was too hot.
The crowd was gathering around them.
The Princess and Kitty quickly withdrew, and the colonel joined the crowd to find out what was going on.
In a few minutes, the colonel chased them.
'What was that? 'The Princess asked.'
'Woe and shame! 'The colonel answered. 'One thing you're afraid of is meeting Russians abroad.
This tall gentleman fought with the doctor, told him the insolence that he didn't treat him so well, and he waved a stick.
Shame on you!
'Oh, how unpleasant!' said the Princess. 'Well, how did it end?'
'Thanks, there's this... this one with a mushroom in her hat. Russian, I think,' said the colonel.
'M-lle Varenka?' 'It was a joy to ask Kitty.'
'Yes, yes.
She was most likely found, she took this gentleman under her arm and took him away.
'Here, Mama,' said Kitty to her mother, 'you are surprised that I admire her.
From the next day, after watching an unknown friend, Kitty noticed that m-lle Varenka and Levin and his woman were already in the same relationship as their other proteges.
She approached them, talking-- walah, serving as a translator for a woman who wasn't able to speak any foreign language.
Kitty begged her mother even more to let her meet Varenka. And as unpleasant as it was to the Princess as it was to take the first step in wanting to meet Mrs. Stahl, allowing herself to be proud of something, she took a look at Varenka and, after learning of her details, concluded that there was nothing bad, though good, in that acquaintance, the first one came to Varenka and met her.
After choosing the time when her daughter went to the key and Varenka stopped against the baker, the Princess approached her.
'Let me meet you,' she said with her worthy smile. 'My daughter is in love with you,' she said. 'You may not know me.
I...
'This is more than mutual, Princess,' replied Varenka in haste.
'What a good deed you did to our pathetic compatriot yesterday! 'The Princess said.'
The boil's blushing.
'I don't remember, I didn't seem to do anything,' she said.
'Well, you saved this Levin from trouble...'
'Yes, sa compagne called me, and I tried to calm him: he was very sick and displeased with the doctor...'
And I have a habit of following these sick people.
'Yes, I hear you live in Menton with your aunt, I think, m-me Stahl.
I knew her belle soeur.
'No, she's not my aunt.
I call her maman, but I am not related to her; I am brought up by her, 'Bloody again,' answered Varenka.
It was so easy to say, so sweet was the true and open expression of her face, that the Princess understood why her Kitty fell in love with this Varenka.
'Well, what about Levin? 'The Princess asked.'
'He is leaving,' replied Varenka.
At that time, with the joy of her mother meeting her unknown friend, Kitty came up with the key.
'Well, Kitty, your strong desire to meet Mademoiselle...'
'Varynka,' said Varenka, smiling, 'that's what everyone calls me.
Kitty blushed with joy and stung her new friend &apos; s hand for a long time, who did not answer her shake -- but lay still in her hand.
The hand didn't answer the shake, but m-lle Varenka's face glowed with a quiet, joyful, though somewhat sad smile, opening her big but beautiful teeth.
'I wanted it myself a long time ago,' she said.
'But you are so busy...'
'Oh, on the contrary, I am not busy,' replied Varenka, but at the same moment I should have left my new acquaintances, because two little Russian girls, the sick's daughter, ran to her.
'Varynka, my mother is calling! 'They were screaming...'
And Varenka followed them.
The details that the Princess learned about the past Varenka and her relationship with Madame Stahl and Mrs. Stahl himself were as follows.
Madame Stahl, some of whom said that she had tortured her husband, while others said that he had tormented her with his immoral conduct, was always a painful and enthralled woman.
When she had already divorced her husband, the first child, the child died immediately, and Mrs. Stahl &apos; s family, knowing her sensitivity and fearing that the news would not kill her, replaced her with a child born the same night and in the same house in Petersburg, the daughter of the court chef.
It was Varenka.
Madame Stahl later learned that Varenka was not her daughter, but she continued to raise her, especially since very soon after Varenka had no family left.
Madame Stahl has lived abroad in the south for over a decade, never getting out of bed.
And some said that Madame Stahl had made herself a virtuous, religious woman; others said that she was in the soul of the most moral creature living only for the good of her neighbor, as she had imagined.
No one knew what religion it was -- Catholic, Protestant or Orthodox; but one thing was certain -- it was in friendly relations with the highest figures of all churches and confessions.
Varenka lived with her all the time abroad, and everyone who knew Madame Stahl knew and loved m-lle Varenka, as everyone called her.
Having learned all these details, the Princess found nothing wrong with her daughter &apos; s proximity to Varenka, especially since Varenka had the best manners and upbringing: she spoke very well in French and English and, above all, told Ms. Stahl &apos; s regret that she did not have the pleasure of meeting the Princess sickly.
After meeting Varenka, Kitty became more and more flattered by her friend and found new qualities in her every day.
The Princess, after hearing that Varenka was a good singer, asked her to come to them tonight to sing.
'Kiti is playing, and we have a piano, a bad one, really, but you will give us great pleasure,' said the Princess with her fake smile, which is particularly unpleasant now Kitty, because she noticed that Varenka did not want to sing.
But Varenka, however, came tonight and brought a notebook with her.
The Princess invited Maria Evgenevna and her daughter and the colonel.
Varenka seemed completely indifferent to the fact that she had faces unknown to her, and immediately approached the piano.
She didn't know how to accompani herself, but she read the notes well in her voice.
Kitty, who played well, accompanied her.
'You have an extraordinary talent,' said the Princess to her after Varenka performed her first play beautifully.
Mary Evgenevna and her daughter thanked and praised her.
'Look,' said the colonel, looking out the window, 'what an audience is going to listen to you. 'In fact, a rather large crowd gathered under the windows.
'I am very glad that this is a pleasure to you,' replied Varenka simply.
Kitty looked proudly at her friend.
She admired both her art and her voice and her face, but most admired her manner, that Varenka apparently did not think anything about her singing and was completely indifferent to praise; as if she only asked if she needed to sing or enough?
'If it were me,' thought Kitty of herself, 'how proud I would be of it!
How happy I would be to look at this crowd under the windows!
She doesn't care at all.
She is motivated only by the desire not to refuse and to make a pleasant maman.
What's in it?
What gives her this power to ignore everyone, to be independently calm?
How much I would like to know and learn it from her,' thought Kitty, looking into that calm face.
The Princess asked Varenka to sing more, and Varenka sang another play just as well, clearly and well, standing by the piano and beating it with her thin, dark hand.
The next song in the playbook was an Italian song.
Kitty played the foreplay and looked back at Varenka.
'Let's skip this one,' said Varenka red.
Kitty was scared and asked to stop her eyes on Varenka's face.
'Well, another one,' she quickly said, turning over the sheets and immediately realizing that something had been connected to the piece.
'No,' answered Varenka, putting her hand on the notes and smiling, 'no, sing this. 'And she sang it as calm, cold and good as ever.
When she came out, everyone thanked her again and went for tea.
Kitty and Varenka went to a kindergarten near the house.
'Is it true that you have a recollection of this song? 'Oh, Kitty said.' 'You do not say,' she quickly added, 'only say, 'is it true?'
'No, why?
I will say, 'I just said Varenka and, without waiting for an answer, continued: 'Yes, it is a memory, and it was hard once.
I loved one person. That's the thing I sang to him.
Kitty, with her big eyes open, looked at Varenka in silence.
'I loved him, and he loved me; but his mother did not want, and he married another.'
He lives near us now, and I see him sometimes.
Didn't you think I was having an affair, too? 'She said, and in her beautiful face, the light that Kitty felt was about to shine all over her.'
'I didn't think so?'
If I was a man, I couldn't love anyone after I knew you.
I just don't understand how he could please his mother to forget you and make you miserable; he didn't have a heart.
'Oh no, he is a very good man, and I am not unhappy; on the contrary, I am very happy.
So we're not gonna sing anymore? 'She added on her way to the house.'
'How good you are, how good you are!' cried Kitty and stopped her and kissed her. 'If only I could be a little like you!
'Why do you have to be like someone like that?'
You are as good as you are,' said Varenka, smiling with her mild and tired smile.
'No, I'm not good at all.
Well, tell me...
Wait, wait,' said Kitty, sitting her back on the bench next to herself. 'Tell me, isn't it offensive to think that a man has neglected your love, that he didn't want to?'
'He did not ignore me; I believe he loved me, but he was a obedient son...'
'Yes, but if it weren't for his mother's will, but for himself?' 'Said Kitty, feeling that she had given away her secret and that her face, burning with the gloom of shame, had already exposed her.'
'Then he would have done wrong, and I would not have pity on him,' replied Varenka, obviously realizing that it wasn't about her, but about Kitty.
'But insult?' 'Oh, Kitty said.' 'Insults can't be forgotten, you can't forget,' she said, remembering her look at the last ball, during the stoppage of music.
'What is the insult?
You didn't do anything wrong, did you?
'Woe is worse than bad.' Shame on you.
Varenka shook her head and put her hand on Kitty's hand.
'What's so embarrassing? 'She said.' 'Cause you couldn't tell a man who doesn't care about you that you love him?
'Of course not; I never said a single word, but he knew.
No, no, there are views, there are manners.
I'll live a hundred years, I won't forget.
'So what?'
I don't understand.
The point is whether you love him now or not,' said Varenka, calling everything by name.
'I hate him; I cannot forgive myself.'
'So what?'
'Ashamed, insulted.'
'Oh, if everyone were as sensitive as you are,' said Varenka. 'There is no girl who wouldn't have experienced it.
And it doesn't matter.
'What's important? 'I asked Kitty, looking at her face with curious surprise.
'Ah, a lot is important,' said Varenka, smiling.
'Ah, much more important,' replied Varenka, not knowing what to say. But at that time, the Princess's voice was heard from the window:
'Kiti, fresh!
Either take the shawl or go to the rooms.
'Really, it is time! 'Said Varenka, standing up.'
I still have to go to Madame Berthe; she asked me to.
Kitty held her hand with passionate curiosity and begged her to look at her, saying, "What, what's the most important thing that gives her such calm?
You know, tell me!"
But Varenka didn't even understand what Kitty was asking for.
All she remembers is that she still needs to go to m-me verthe and be home by 12 o'clock for tea maman.
She walked into the rooms, collected notes, and, after saying goodbye to everyone, she was going to leave.
'Let me walk you out,' said the colonel.
'How can I walk alone now at night?' 'The Princess confirmed it.' 'I will send Parsha.'
Kitty saw that Varenka had a hard time holding a smile when she said she needed a walk.
'No, I always walk alone, and nothing ever happens to me,' she said, taking a hat.
And by kissing Kitty again and never saying what was important, a bright step, with notes under her arm, she hid in half the darkness of the summer night, carrying her secret about what was important and what gave her this enviable calm and dignity.
Kitty also met Mrs. Stahl, and this, along with her friendship with Varenka, not only had a strong influence on her, but comforted her in her grief.
She found this comfort in the fact that this introduction opened up a whole new world that had nothing to do with her past, a lofty, beautiful world from whose height it was possible to look at this past in peace.
What revealed to her was that, apart from the instinctive life that Kitty had so far been given, there was spiritual life.
This life was revealed by religion, but by religion that had nothing to do with that which Kitty had known since childhood and which was expressed in a poor and all-powerful house where acquaintances could be met and in a study with a father of Slavic texts; it was a religion that was lofty, mysterious, linked to a series of beautiful thoughts and feelings that could not only be believed because it was so commanded, but which could be loved.
Kitty didn't get it out of her mouth.
Madame Stahl spoke to Kitty as a sweet child who you admire as a memory of her youth, and mentioned only once that in all human sorrows the comfort is only of love and faith, and that there are no small sorrows for Christ's compassion for us, and immediately translated the conversation into another.
But Kitty in every move, in every word, in every heavenly word, as Kitty called it, the look of her, especially in the history of her life, which she knew through Varenka, learned everything "what was important" and what she still didn't know.
But as high as Madame Stahl's character may have been, as touching as her whole story may have been, as high and tender as her speech may have been, Kitty involuntarily pointed to the characteristics that embarrassed her.
She noticed that when she asked about her family, Madame Stahl smiled contemptiblely, which was contrary to Christian kindness.
I also noticed that when she found her Catholic priest, Madame Stahl carefully kept her face in the shadow of the Abajoura and especially smiled.
As small as those two comments were, they embarrassed her, and she doubted Madame Stahl.
But at the same time, Varenka, alone, without family, without friends, with sad disappointment, with nothing to wish for, without regret, was the perfect thing Kitty could ever dream of.
In Varenka, she realized that all she had to do was forget herself and love others, and you'll be calm, happy, beautiful.
And that's how Kitty wanted to be.
Now that it was clear what was most important, Kitty was not content to admire it, but immediately the whole soul gave up this new life that opened up to her.
According to Varenka's account of what Madame Stahl and the others she called, Kitty has already drawn up a happy plan for the future.
She, like Mrs. Stahl's niece, Alene, about whom Varenka has told her a lot, will, wherever she lives, search for the poor, help and as many as possible, distribute the Gospel, read the Gospel to the sick, to the criminals, to the dying.
The idea of reading the Gospel to criminals, as Alene did, was particularly appealing to Kitty.
But all these were secret dreams Kitty didn't say to her mother or Varenka.
However, in anticipation of a great deal of planning, Kitty and now, in waters where there were so many sick and unfortunate people, found it easy to apply their new rules, i.e. to imitate Varenka.
At first, the Princess noticed that Kitty was under the strong influence of her enguement, as she called it, to Mrs. Stahl and in particular-- and to Varenka.
She saw that Kitty not only imitates Varenka in her activities, but willingly imitates her in her way of walking, speaking, and blinking her eyes.
But then the Princess noticed that there was a serious emotional coup in her daughter, regardless of that charm.
The Princess saw that Kitty read the French Gospel in the evenings, which Mrs. Stahl had given her, which she had never done before; that she avoided social acquaintances and met with patients under Varenka's protection, and in particular with one poor family of a sick painter Petrov.
Kitty was apparently proud to be the sister of mercy in this family.
All this was good, and the Princess had nothing to do with it, especially since Petrov's wife was a decent woman and that the princess who had replaced Kitty's activities praised her for calling her a comforter angel.
All of this would have been very good if it hadn't been extravagant.
And the Princess saw her daughter falling into extremes, which she told her.
'Il ne fat jamais rien outsider,' she told her.
But her daughter did not answer her; she only thought in her heart that you could not speak of excess in the Christian work.
What kind of excess is there in following a doctrine in which the other cheek is commanded to be set up when hit on one, and to give up the shirt when the kaftan is removed?
But the Princess didn't like it, and she didn't like what she felt anymore, Kitty didn't want to reveal her whole soul to her.
Indeed, Kitty kept her mother from her new ways of thinking and feeling.
She didn't hide them because she didn't respect her mother, because she didn't love her mother, but because it was her mother.
She would have opened them to anyone more than her mother.
'We haven't had Anna Pavlovna in a while,' said the Princess of Petrov. 'I called her.
It's like she's not happy.
'No, I didn't notice, maman,' said Kitty in a flash.
'It's been a long time since you've been to them?
'We are going to take a walk to the mountains tomorrow,' said Kitty.
'Well, go,' answered the Princess, looking into her daughter's embarrassed face and trying to guess why she was embarrassed.
On the same day, Varenka came to lunch and reported that Anna Pavlovna had decided to go to the mountains tomorrow...
And the Princess noticed that Kitty was blushing again.
'Kiti, have you had any trouble with Petrova? 'The Princess said, when they were alone.' 'Why did she stop sending children and coming to us?
Kitty replied that there was nothing between them and that she strongly failed to understand why Anna Pavlovna seemed to be displeased with her.
Kitty answered the perfect truth. She didn't know the reason for Anna Pavlovna's change, but she knew.
She knew something she couldn't tell her mother she didn't tell herself.
It was one of those things you know, but you can't even tell yourself; it's so scary and embarrassing to be wrong.
Again and again, she recaptured her entire relationship with this family.
She remembered the naive joy expressed by Anna Pavlovna's round-the-heart face at their meetings; recalled their secret negotiations about the sick, plotting to distract him from the work that he was forbidden to do, to take him out; and the affection of the little boy who called her "my Kitty" who didn't want to go to bed without her.
How good it was!
Then she remembered Petrov's skinny skinny figure with his long neck in his brown jacket; his rare curly hair, questionable, scary at first for Kitty's blue eyes, and his painful efforts to seem bright and lively in her presence.
She remembered her efforts at the outset to overcome the disgust she felt for him, as for all the cheesy ones, and the efforts she had made to tell him.
She remembered this shy, empathetic look that he looked at her with, and the strange feeling of compassion and awkwardness and then the consciousness of her goodness that she felt at the time.
How good it was!
But it was the first time.
Now, a few days ago, everything suddenly went wrong.
Anna Pavlovna met Kitty with pretense courtesy and watched her and her husband all the time.
Was that touching joy on her approach the cause of Anna Pavlovna's cooling?
"Yeah," she remembered, "something was unnatural in Anna Pavlovna and very different from her kindness when she said, "Here, everyone was waiting for you, didn't want to drink coffee without you, though she was awful."
"Yeah, maybe she didn't like it when I gave him the blanket.
It's all so simple, but he's taken it so embarrassingly, he's been thanking me for so long, it's embarrassing, too.
And then this portrait is mine, which he did so well.
The most important thing is that look, confused and tender!
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 'No, it can't, it can't be!
He's so pathetic!" 'She said to herself after that.'
That doubt poisoned the beauty of her new life.
Just before the end of the course, Prince Scherbatsky, who had travelled after Karlsbad to Baden and Kissingen to meet Russian acquaintances to gather Russian spirit, he said, returned to his own.
The Prince &apos; s and Princess &apos; s views on foreign life were quite the opposite.
The Princess found everything beautiful and, despite her firm position in Russian society, tried abroad to be like a European lady than she was, because she was a Russian lady, and she pretended to be somewhat uncomfortable.
The Prince, on the other hand, found all the bad things abroad, weighed heavily on European life, held on to his Russian habits, and deliberately tried to express himself abroad as a less European than he was in fact.
The prince returned with a thinner skin on his cheeks, but in the happiest mood of the spirit.
He was even more happy when he saw Kitty recovering completely.
The news of Kitty &apos; s friendship with Ms. Stahl and Varenka, and the Princess &apos; s observation of some change in Kitty, have embarrassed the Prince and created a normal sense of jealousy in him for everything his daughter was attracted to besides him, and the fear that his daughter would not leave his influence in areas beyond his reach.
But these unpleasant news drowned in the sea of kindness and joy that had always been in it and that had been especially reinforced by Carlsbad's waters.
On the other day, on his arrival, the prince, in his long coat, with his Russian wrinkles and his swollen cheeks, with his smoldering collars, went with his daughter to the water in the happiest position of spirit.
The morning was beautiful; the tidy, hilarious houses with saddles, the view of red-faced, red-handed, beer - filled German maids and the bright sun made the heart rejoice; but the closer they approached the waters, the more the sick met, and their view seemed even worse among the normal conditions of well - organized German life.
Kitty wasn't astounded by the opposite.
The bright sun, the merry glitter of green, the sound of music was for her the natural frame of all those familiar faces and the changes to the deterioration or improvement that she was watching; but for the Prince, the light and glitter of June morning and the sound of the orchestra playing a fashioned fun waltz, and especially the view of the big maids seemed to be indecent and ugly in joining with those gathered together with all the ends of Europe, was despondent by the moving dead.
Despite his sense of pride and as a return to youth when his beloved daughter was walking in his hand, he now felt embarrassed and ashamed of his strong walk, for his large, fat - covered dicks.
He felt almost undressed in society.
'Imagine, introduce me to your new friends,' he said to his daughter, shaking her hand with an elbow. 'I and this nasty Soden of yours fell in love for what he did to you.
It's just sad. It's sad.
Who's that?
Keith used to call him those familiar and strange faces they met.
At the entrance to the garden, they met a blind m-me Berthe with a guide, and the prince rejoiced at the smug expression of an old French woman when she heard Kitty's voice.
She immediately spoke to him with the French extenuation of courtesy, praising him for having such a beautiful daughter, and looking up to Kitty's heaven and calling her a treasure, a pen and a comforter angel.
'Well, she is the second angel,' said the prince smiling. 'She calls the angel the first mademoiselle Varenka.
'Oh! M-lle Varenka -- this is a real angel, allez -- picked up m-me Berthe.
They met Varenka at the gallery.
She rushed to meet them, carrying an elegant red purse.
'Here comes Dad!' said Kitty to her.
Varenka made it simple and natural, just like everything she did, the movement, the middle between the bow and the sitting, and immediately spoke to the prince, as she spoke to everyone, unbroken and simple.
'Of course I know you, I know you very much,' said the prince with a smile, by which Kitty was happy to learn that her friend liked her father. 'Why are you in such a hurry?'
'Maman is here,' she said, turning to Kitty. 'She stayed up all night, and the doctor advised her to leave.
I'm carrying her job.
'This is the angel number one!' said the prince when Varenka left.
Kitty saw that he wanted to laugh at Varenka, but that he couldn't do it because he liked Varenka.
'Well, we shall all see your friends,' he added, 'and Madame Stahl, if she wishes to know me. a burning fire of ridicule in the eyes of the Prince at the mention of Madame Stahl.
'I knew her husband and her a little before she signed up.
'What is a pyetist, Dad? 'I dropped Kitty, already terrified that what she valued so highly in Mrs. Stahl had a name.
'I don't know very well myself.
All I know is that she thanks God for everything, for all her misery, and for her husband's death, for God's gratitude.
Well, that's funny, 'cause they didn't live well. 'Who is this?
What a pathetic face!' he asked, when he noticed a small sick man sitting on a bench in a brown coat and white pants making strange folds on the meatless bones of his legs.
This gentleman raised his straw hat above his curly, rare hair, opening a tall, painfully reddish forehead from the hat.
'This is Petrov, the painter,' said Kitty, red. 'And this is his wife,' she added, pointing to Anna Pavlovna, who, as if on purpose, at the same time as they were approaching, followed a child running down the road.
'How pathetic, and how cute his face is!' said the prince. 'Why didn't you come?
Is there something he wanted to tell you?
'Well, let's go,' said Kitty, turning with determination. 'How are your health these days?' 'She asked Petrov.
Petrov stood up, leaning on the stick, and looked shyly at the prince.
'This is my daughter,' said the prince. 'Let me be familiar.
The painter bowed and smiled, opening strangely shiny white teeth.
'We waited for you yesterday, Princess,' he said.
He shuddered, saying that, and in repeating that movement, he tried to show that he did it on purpose.
'I wanted to come, but Varenka said that Anna Pavlovna sent me to say you wouldn't go.
'How can we not go?' 'Bloodly, and immediately coughed,' said Petrov, looking for the wife's eyes. 'Aneta, Aneta!' he said loudly, and on his thin white neck, like ropes, fat veins stretched out.
Anna Pavlovna came.
'How did you send the Princess to tell her we wouldn't go! 'When he lost his voice, he whispered annoyingly to her.
'Hello, Princess! 'Anna Pavlovna said with a fake smile so different from her previous treatment. 'It is very nice to meet you,' she turned to the Prince. 'You've been waiting a long time, Prince.
'How did you send the Princess to tell her we wouldn't go?' 'Hryly whispered yet again to the painter yet more angry, apparently angry even more by the fact that his voice was changing him and he could not give his speech the expression he wanted.'
'Oh, my God!
I thought we weren't going,' the wife answered with shame.
'How, when...' he coughed and waved his hand. The prince lifted his hat and left with his daughter.
'Oh, ooh! 'He took a heavy breath,' said the poor ones!
'Yes, Dad,' said Kitty. 'But we need to know that they have three children, no maids, and almost no money.'
He's getting something from the Academy,' she's been telling a lot, trying to stop the excitement she's had because of Anna Pavlovna's strange attitude towards her.
'Here comes Madame Stahl,' said Kitty, pointing to a pram in which there was something in it, covered with pillows, in something gray and blue, under the umbrella.
It was Ms. Stahl.
Behind her was a dark, big German worker who was skating her.
There was a blonde Swedish Count who was known by the name of Kitty.
Several sick people slowed by the pram, looking at this lady like something extraordinary.
The Prince approached her. And immediately, in his eyes, Kitty noticed her embarrassing light of ridicule.
He went to Madame Stahl and spoke in that excellent French language, which so few already speak now, most politely and nicely.
'I don't know if you'll remember me, but I have to remind myself to thank you for your kindness to my daughter,' he said to her, taking off her hat and not putting it on.
'The Prince Alexander Shcherbatsky,' said Madame Stahl, raising her heavenly eyes to him, in which Kitty noticed displeasure. 'Rejoice to meet you.
I loved your daughter so much.
'Cause your health isn't good?
'I am used to it,' said Madame Stahl, and introduced the Prince to the Swedish count.
'And you have changed very little,' said the prince. 'I had no honour to see you for ten or eleven years.
'Yes, God gives a cross and gives strength to carry it.
You often wonder what this life is all about...
On the other side! 'She was displeased by Varenka, who had not so wrapped her feet with a stick.'
'To do good, perhaps,' said the prince, laughing with his eyes.
'It is not for us to judge,' said Ms. Stahl, noting the shade of expression on the Prince's face. 'So you'll send me this book, dear Count?
"Thank you very much," she turned to the young Swede.
'Ah! 'The prince cried out, seeing a Moscow colonel standing by, and bowing to Mrs. Stahl, retreated with his daughter and a Moscow colonel joining them.
'This is our aristocracy, Prince! 'The Moscow colonel, who was in a claim against Mrs. Stahl for not knowing him, said with a desire to be ridiculous.
'It is the same,' answered the prince.
'Did you know her before you were sick, Prince, that is, before she lay down?'
'Yes. She lied down in front of me,' said the prince.
'They say she hasn't stood up in ten years.
'It doesn't rise because it's a short foot.
It's a very bad setup.
'Dad, no way! 'Whether Kitty objected.' 'The Varenka loves her.
And then she does so much good!
Ask anyone you want!
Everyone knows her and Alle Steel.
'Maybe,' he said, shaking her hand with an elbow. 'But it's better when you make someone ask, no one knows.'
Kitty did not shut up because she had nothing to say; but neither did they want to reveal their secret thoughts.
But the strange thing, though she was so prepared to disobey her father's eyes, to deny him access to her holy place, she felt that the divine image of Mrs. Stahl, which she had worn in her soul for a month, disappeared irrevocably as a figure made out of an abandoned dress, disappears when you realize how that dress is.
There's one short-legged woman who's lying there because she's bad, and she's tormenting the unrequited Varenka because she's not putting it up like that.
And no effort of imagination could ever be made to bring back the former Madame Stahl.
XXXV
The Prince handed over his joyous spirits to his household, and to his acquaintances, and even to the German host who had the Sherbits.
When he returned with Kitty from the waters and invited both the colonel and Mary Evgenevna and Varenka to join him, the prince told him to carry the table and the chairs into the garden, under the chestnut, and to cover the breakfast.
And the master and the servants came to life under the influence of his joy.
They knew his generosity, and after half an hour, a sick hamburg doctor, living upstairs, enviedly looked out the window at this fun Russian company of healthy people gathered under chestnuts.
Under a trembling circle of leaves covered with white tablecloths and caffeine, bread, butter, cheese, cold wild table, the Princess sat in a tattoo with purple tapes, handing out cups and tartins.
The prince sat on the other end, eating heavily and talking loudly and having fun.
The Prince spread his shopping, cutting chests, turquoise, cutters of all kinds, which he had bought on all waters, and gave them to all, including Lischen, the maiden, and to the master with whom he made jokes in his comic bad German, assuring him that not the waters had cured Kitty, but his good food, especially the soup with prunes.
The Princess laughed at her husband for his Russian habits, but she was as excited and happy as she had never been in the waters throughout her life.
The colonel, as always, smiled at the Prince's jokes; but about Europe, which he carefully studied, he thought he held the Princess's side.
The good Mary Evgenyevna was laughing at everything the funny prince said, and Varenka, which Kitty had never seen before, was disillusioned by the faint but reported laughter that provoked the Prince's jokes in her.
All of this was fun for Kitty, but she couldn't help but be concerned.
She could not solve the task that her father had inadvertently given her with her merry eyes on her friends and the life she loved so much.
This has been accompanied by a change in her relationship with Petrov, which has now become so obvious and unpleasant.
Everyone had fun, but Kitty couldn't be fun, and it hurt her even more.
She felt the way she felt when she was a child when she was locked in her room under punishment and listened to her sisters laughing.
'Well, what did you buy this abyss for?' 'Said the Princess, smiling and serving her husband a cup of coffee.'
'You're going to walk, you're gonna go to the shop, they're gonna ask you to buy 'Earlaughter, Excellent, Dumblaht.'
Well, as they say, "Durhlaucht," I can't say no to ten talers.
'It's just boredom,' said the Princess.
'Of course I am bored.
So boring, Mother, you don't know where to go.
'How can I miss you, Prince?
So much interesting now in Germany,' said Mary Evgenyevna.
'I know all the interesting things: prune soup I know, pea sausage I know.
I know everything.
'No, but as you wish, Prince, their institutions are interesting,' said the colonel.
'What's so interesting?
They're all as happy as copper chips: they've all been won.
Well, what am I supposed to be happy about?
I didn't beat anyone, but just take off your boots, and put them outside the door yourself.
Get up in the morning, get dressed now, go to the tea salon bad drink.
Whether it's home or not!
You wake up in a hurry, you're mad at something, you're gonna talk, you're gonna remember, you're gonna think it over, you're not in a hurry.
'And time -- money, you forget it,' said the colonel.
'What a time!
Another time is that you're gonna give me half a month, or you're not gonna get any money in half an hour.
Isn't that right, Katenka?
What are you, so boring?
'I am nothing.
'Where are you going?
Sit still,' he turned to Varenka.
'I have to go home,' said Varenka, standing up and laughing again.
After recovering, she said goodbye and went into the house to get her hat.
Kitty went after her. Even Varenka seemed like a friend now.
She wasn't worse, but she was different than the one she once imagined.
'Oh, I haven't laughed so much in a long time!' said Varenka, collecting an umbrella and a bag. 'What a sweetheart he is, your dad!
Kitty didn't say anything.
'When will I see you?' 'Ask Varenka.
'Maman wanted to visit Petrov.
You won't be there? 'Kiti said, testing Varenka.
'I will be,' replied Varenka. 'They're going to leave, so I promised to help you get it done.'
'Well, I'll come.
'No, what do you want?
'Why? Why? Why? 'In open eyes, Kitty spoke, taking up to keep Varenka behind her umbrella. 'No, wait, why?
'That's it; your dad came, and then they're embarrassed of you.
'No, you tell me, why don't you want me to spend a lot of time at Petrov's?
You don't want to, do you?
Why?
'I didn't say that,' said Varenka calmly.
'No, please tell me!
'Is it all to speak?' 'Ask Varenka.
'That's it, that's it!' got Kitty.
'There is nothing special, except that Michael Alexeyevich (so called the painter) had previously wanted to leave early, and now he does not want to leave,' said Varenka, smiling.
'Well! Well! 'Hurrying Kitty, looking down on Varenka.'
'Well, for some reason Anna Pavlovna said that he didn't want you here.
Of course it wasn't right, but that's what got you into a fight.
And you know how annoying these patients are.
Kitty was increasingly frowning, silent, and Varenka spoke alone, trying to calm and calm her and seeing the explosion, she did not know what -- tears or words.
'It is better that you do not go...'
And you understand, don't be offended...
'And it is for me, and it is for me!' said Kitty quickly, grabbing an umbrella from Varenka's hand and looking past her friend's eye.
Varenka wanted to smile at her friend's childish anger, but she was afraid to insult her.
'What's the deal?
I don't understand,' she said.
'It's all about pretending, 'because it's all made up, not from the heart.'
What did I care about someone else?
And it turns out that I was the cause of the fight and that I was doing something that no one asked me to do.
'Cause it's all pretending! pretending! pretending!
'What is the purpose of pretending?' 'Silently said Varenka.
'Oh, that's so stupid, it's disgusting!
I didn't need any...
All pretending!-- she said, opening and closing her umbrella.
'Yes, with what purpose?'
'To appear better in front of men, in front of themselves, in front of God, to deceive everyone.'
No, I can't do this anymore!
To be a bad man, but at least not a liar, not a liar!
'Who is the liar?' 'Absolutely said Varenka. 'You speak as if...'
But Kitty was in a violent seizure.
She wouldn't let her finish.
'I'm not talking about you, I'm not talking about you at all.
You're perfect.
Yeah, yeah, I know you're perfect, but what do you do, that I'm bad?
That wouldn't have happened if I wasn't bad.
So let me be who I am, but I won't pretend.
What do I care about Anna Pavlovna?
Let them live as they please, and I will.
I can't be each other...
And it's not that, it's not that!
'What's wrong with that? 'In perplexity, Varenka said.
'It's not the same.
I can't live the life of my heart, and you live by the rules.
I just fell in love with you, and all you have to do is save me, teach me!
'You are unjust,' said Varenka.
'I'm not saying anything about others, I'm talking about myself.
'Kiti!' said the mother's voice, 'come here, show your father your crowns.
Kitty looked proudly, not having made peace with her friend, took a crown from the table in a box and went to her mother's.
'What is wrong with you?
Why are you so red? 'The mother and father said to her in one voice.'
'Nothing,' she replied, 'I will come and run back.
"She's still here!" she thought. 'What will I tell her, my God! What I did, what I said!
Why did I hurt her?
What am I supposed to do?
What am I gonna tell her?" 'I thought Kitty had stopped by the door.'
Varenka, wearing a hat and with an umbrella in her hand, sat by the table, looking at the spring that Kitty broke.
She raised her head.
'Varynka, forgive me, forgive me! I whispered to Kitty as I approached her. 'I don't remember what I said. I...
'I really didn't want to upset you,' said Varenka, smiling.
The world was made.
But with my father's arrival for Kitty, the whole world she lived in changed.
She didn't give up everything she found out, but she realized she was lying to herself, thinking that she could be what she wanted to be.
It was as if she had woken up; felt all the difficulty without pretence and bragging to hold on to the height she wanted to rise to; it also felt the weight of the world of grief, disease, death in which she lived; it was painful for her to see the effort she had used to love it, and she quickly wanted to get fresh air, to Russia, to Ergushovo, where, as she learned from the letter, her sister Dolly had already moved with her children.
But her love for Varenka hasn't diminished.
By saying goodbye, Kitty begged her to come to Russia.
'I will come when you get married,' said Varenka.
'I will never go out.
'Well, then I will never come.'
'Well, that's why I'm getting married.
Look, remember the promise! 'Oh, Kitty said.'
The doctor's predictions were justified.
Kitty returned home to Russia, cured.
She wasn't as carefree and funny as she used to be, but she was calm, and her Moscow grief became a memory.
PART THREE
Sergei Ivanovich Koznyshev wanted to take a break from his mental work and, instead of going abroad as usual, came to the village to visit his brother at the end of May.
He believed that the best life was a village. He's here now to enjoy his brother's life.
Konstantin Levin was very happy, especially since he wasn't expecting his brother Nikolai this summer.
But despite his love and respect for Sergei Ivanovich, Konstantin Levin was uncomfortable in the village with his brother.
He was embarrassed, even uncomfortable to see his brother's attitude toward the village. For Konstantin Levin, the village was a place of life, i.e. joy, suffering, labour; for Koznyshev, the village was, on the one hand, a rest from work; and, on the other hand, a useful antidote to spoil, which he took with pleasure and consciousness of his usefulness.
For Konstantin Levin, the village was good that it represented work that was undoubtedly useful; for Sergei Ivanovic, the village was especially good that nothing could and should be done there.
Moreover, Koznyshev &apos; s attitude towards the people included several boxes of Konstantin.
Koznyshev said that he loved and knew the people, and often talked to the men, that he could do well without pretending or breaking, and from each such conversation he drew general data in favour of the people and in order to prove that he knew the people. This attitude against the people was not pleasing to Konstantin Levin.
For Konstantin, the people were only the main participant in the common work, and despite all the respect and some level of love for the man that he himself had given to him, as he himself said, probably with the milk of a baba feeder, he, as a participant in a common cause, sometimes admired by the power, the mildness, the justice of these people, very often, when in general other qualities were required, came to anger the people for their carelessness, sloppyness, drunkness, lies.
Constantin Levin, had he been asked if he loved the people, he would not have been sure how to respond.
He loved and didn't love people as much as he loved people.
Of course, as a kind man, he loved more than he did not love people, and so did the people. But to love or not to love a people as special as anything, he could not, because not only did he live with the people, not only his interests were connected to the people, but he considered himself to be part of the people, he saw no special qualities and shortcomings in himself and the people, and he could not stand up to the people.
Moreover, although he had long lived in the closest relationship to men as master and mediator, and most importantly, as counselor (husbands believed him and went to see him for 40 years), he had no definite judgement about the people, and to the question whether he knew the people would be as difficult to answer as to whether he loved the people.
Saying that he knew the people would be the same for him as saying that he knew the people.
He constantly watched and recognized all sorts of people, including men, whom he considered to be good and interesting, and constantly noticed new features in them, changed their views and drafted new ones. Koznyshev across the street.
Just as he loved and praised village life as opposed to the one he didn't love, he also loved people as opposed to the class he didn't love, and just as he knew people as opposed to people at all.
His methodological wisdom clearly established certain forms of people &apos; s life, derived in part from the people &apos; s life itself, but largely from the contrast.
He never changed his mind about the people and his compassion for them.
In the differences between the brothers in the judgement of the people, Sergei Ivanovic had always defeated his brother precisely because Sergei Ivanov had certain notions of the people, its nature, properties and tastes; but Konstantin Levin had no definite and unchanging notion, so that in these disputes Konstantin had always been in conflict with himself.
For Sergei Ivanovic, his younger brother was a good fellow, with a heart set up well (as he expressed in French), but intelligently, though fast, but subservient to the impressions of a minute and therefore filled with contradictions.
With his older brother's condescendingness, he sometimes explained the meaning of things to him, but he could not find pleasure in arguing with him because he broke him too easily.
Constantin Levin looked at his brother as a man of great intellect and education, noble in the highest meaning of the word and gifted with the ability to act for the common good.
But deep down in his soul, the older he grew, and the closer he knew his brother, the more and more he thought that this ability to work for the common good, which he felt completely deprived, might not be quality, but rather a lack of something -- not a lack of good, honest, noble desires and tastes, but a lack of the strength of life, what is called the heart of the desire that forces a person out of all the countless ways of life to choose one and to want one.
The more he recognized his brother, the more he noticed that both Sergei Ivanovic and many others, for the common good, had not been put to this love of the common good in their hearts, but had reason to think that it was good to do it, and that was why they had done it.
Levin added that his brother no longer took to heart questions about the common good and the immortality of the soul than about the chess party or the witty arrangement of the new machine.
In addition, Konstantin Levin was embarrassed in the village with his brother because Levin was constantly busy in the village, especially in the summer, and he lacked a long summer day to redo what was needed, while Sergei Ivanovic was resting.
But even though he was resting now, i.e., not working on his essay, he was so accustomed to mental activity that he liked to express in a beautiful, concise form the thoughts that came to him and loved to listen to someone.
The most ordinary and natural listener was his brother. So, despite the friendly simplicity of their relationship, Konstantin was embarrassed to leave him alone.
Koznyshev liked to lie in the grass in the sun and lie like this, hot and lazy.
'You will not believe it!' he said to his brother, 'what a delight it is for me to have this forelock laziness. Not a single thought in your head, not even a ball to swing.
But Konstantin Levin was bored to sit and listen to him, especially because he knew that without him he was being driven to an undisturbed field and God knows how, if not seen; and the incisors in the plows would not be moved, but would be filmed, and would then say that the plows of fiction were empty and whether or not Andreevna's case, etc.
'May you walk in the heat,' said Koznyshev.
'No, I'll just run into the office for a minute,' said Levin, and ran into the field.
In the early days of June, it was reported that Agatha Mikhaylovna's nanny and housekeeper had carried a bottle of fungus she had just sent into the basement, slipped, fell and lost her hand in the brushes.
A young chattery student, an Earth doctor, just graduated. He looked at his hand, said it wasn't dislocated, put on compresses and, while staying for lunch, apparently enjoyed a conversation with the famous Sergei Ivanovich Koznyshev and told him to show him his enlightened view of things, all the county gossip, complaining about the bad state of the Earth's cause.
Koznyshev listened carefully, asked questions and, excited by the new listener, spoke and made several marks and valid remarks, which were respectfully appreciated by a young doctor, and came to his friend, a lively state of spirit, to which he usually came after a brilliant and lively conversation.
After Dr. Sergei Ivanovic left, he wanted to drive with a rod to the river.
He loved to fish and was proud to love such a stupid thing.
Konstantin Levin, who had to go to the groin and the meadows, volunteered to take his brother to the convertible.
There was the time of the year, the passing of the summer, when the crop of this year was determined to begin caring for the harvest of next year and to come up with the mooses, when all the groves were punctured and, grey green, not filled with salt, yet lightly trembled in the wind, when the green oats, with the leaves of the yellow herbs on them, were convulsed at the later harvests, when the early Greek was already crumbling, hiding the earth, when the slaughtered couple with the deserted roads, which did not take the hawk, were ploughed up to half; when the sucked-out piles of manure were plowed in the springs along with the honey herbs, and at the bottom, waiting for the moss, they were standing on a full-blown mead with black piles of pillows.
There was a time when in rural work there was a short break before the beginning of the annual and all-powerful clean-up of the people.
The harvest was beautiful, and there were bright, hot summer days with rugged short nights.
The brothers had to go through the woods to go to the meadows.
Koznyshev was always admiring the beauty of the forest that had fallen out of the leaves, pointing to his brother the dark side of the shadowy side, mired by yellow stickers preparing for the color of the old lip, and in the emerald, the brilliant young runaways of this year's trees.
Konstantin Levin did not like to talk and listen to the beauty of nature.
Words took away his beauty from what he saw.
He gave in to his brother, but he hesitated to think of something else.
When they passed through the woods, his attention was absorbed by the view of the steam field on the bugre, where the yellow grass, the rich and the cage cut, the piled up and the ploughed.
The field was driven by a wheelbarrow.
Levin counted the carts, was satisfied that all that was needed would be taken away, and his thoughts turned when he saw the meadows to the question of the elbow.
He always felt something special about taking care of the living in the hay.
On arriving at the meadow, Levin stopped the horse.
The morning dew was still downstairs on the bush of herbs, and Koznyshev, in order not to wash his legs, asked him to take himself to the meadow in the convertible to the crustite bush where the oxen were taken.
As sorry as it was for Konstantin Levin to mess with his grass, he moved into the meadow.
The tall grass softly wrapped around the wheels and legs of the horse, leaving its seeds on wet sticks and towers.
The brother sat under the bush, dissecting the rods, and Levin took the horse away, tied it up, and entered the huge grey green sea of the meadow into the real wind.
Silk with sniffing seeds, the grass was almost in the back of the bay.
After crossing the meadow, Konstantin Levin came into the road and met an old man with a swollen eye carrying a tree with bees.
'What? Or did you catch me, Fomic? 'He asked.'
'What a catch, Constantin Mytrich!
Just keep yours safe.
This is the second time a friend's gone... thank you guys for the ride.
You're pawning. Pull the horse away, get on the road.
'Well, what do you say, Fomic, 'to mow or to wait?'
'Well, then! We think it's time for Petrov's day.
You've always had your hair cut before.
Well, God will give good herbs.
The bastard's gonna be spacious.
'And the weather, do you think?'
'This is God's business. Maybe the weather will.
Levin approached his brother.
I didn't catch anything, but Koznyshev didn't miss me, and he seemed to be in the most fun mood.
Levin saw that, angry with the doctor, he wanted to talk.
Levin, on the other hand, wanted to go home rather in order to order the summoning of the kosses by tomorrow and to resolve the doubt about the handmaiden, which greatly occupied him.
'Well, let's go,' he said.
'What's the rush?
Sit down.
You're so exhausted, though!
At least it's not a catch, but it's okay. Any hunting is good that you're dealing with nature.
What a beauty this steel water is! 'He said.' 'These banks are meadows,' he continued, 'always remind me of a riddle,' you know? And the grass says to the water, and we shall roam, and we shall roam.
'I do not know this riddle,' Levin answered with sadness.
'You know, I've been thinking about you,' said Koznyshev. 'It doesn't look like anything you're doing in the county, as this doctor told me; he's a very stupid kid.
And I told you and I said, "It's not good that you don't go to meetings and get rid of the earthly business at all.
If decent people leave, of course, everything will go God knows how.
We pay money, they pay salaries, and there's no schools, no nurses, no birth money, no drugstore, nothing.
'I have tried,' Levin answered quietly and reluctantly, 'I cannot! What are you gonna do?
'What can't you do?
I admit I don't understand.
Evening, I do not allow impropriety. Is it just laziness?
'Neither, nor the other, nor the third.'
'I have tried and I see that there is nothing I can do,' said Levin.
He didn't get much into what his brother said.
When he looked behind the river at the field, he saw something black, but he couldn't tell whether it was a horse or an orderman on top.
'Why can't you do anything?
You tried, and you didn't succeed, and you obey.
How can you not have egoism?
'Empathy,' said Levin, who was hurt by the living words of his brother, 'I do not understand.
When the university tells me that others understand integrated computation, and I don't understand it, it's ego. But we need to be convinced first that we need to have known skills for these cases and, above all, that all these cases are very important.
'Well, then! Doesn't it matter? 'Oh, Koznyshev said, who was hurting for the living and that his brother found what occupied him unimportant, and in particular that he apparently did not listen to him very much.'
'I don't think it's important, doesn't take me away, what do you want?' 'I answered Levin, considering that what I saw was an orderr, and that the orderman probably let the men off the groin.' They were reshuffling the juices.
"Did you smell it already?" 'He thought.'
'Well, listen, though,' said his older brother, frowned upon his beautiful smart face, 'there are limits to everything.
It is very good to be a weirdo and a sincere man and not to love a lie, &quot; I know all this; but what you say either doesn &apos; t make sense or has very bad meaning.
How do you find it irrelevant that the people you love, as you say...
"I never assured you," thought Konstantin Levin.
- dying without help?
The brute dolls mar the children, and the people will be ignorant, and they will remain in the hands of every writer, and you will be given the means to help it, and you will not help, because you don't think it matters.
And Sergei Ivanovic made him a dilemma: either you're so undeveloped that you can't see everything you can do, or you don't want to compromise your calm, your vanity, I don't know what to do.
Constantin Levin felt that all he had to do was submit or confess his lack of love for the common cause. And it insulted him and upset him.
'Both of them,' he said with determination. 'I can't see that I can...'
Can't you put the money well enough to give me a doctor's help?
'You can't, I think...'
Four thousand square yards of our village, with our johns, snowflakes, sometimes working, I don't see the ability to provide medical care everywhere.
I don't believe in medicine at all.
'Well, let me; it is not fair...'
I'll give you thousands of examples...
Well, what about schools?
'Why schools?
'What are you saying?
Is there any doubt about the benefits of education?
If it's good for you, it's good for everyone.
Konstantin Levin felt morally attached to the wall, so he heated up and unwittingly expressed the main reason for his indifference to the common cause.
'Maybe it's all good; but why would I care about the establishment of medical posts, which I never use, and schools where I won't send my children, where the peasants don't want to send the children, and I don't believe it's necessary to send them? 'He said.'
Koznyshev was surprised for a moment by this unexpected view of the case; but he immediately drew up a new plan for the attack.
He kept quiet, took out one rod, threw it over, and smiled and turned to his brother.
'Well, let me...'
First of all, the medical facility was needed.
So we sent for Agatha Mikhaylovna for an Earth doctor.
'Well, I think the arm will remain a crooked one.'
'This is another question...'
Then a smart man, you need a better and more expensive employee.
'No, ask anyone you want,' answered Constantin Levin with determination. 'A literate worker is much worse.
And the roads cannot be repaired; and the bridges will both be set up and stolen.
'But, frowning,' said Koznyshev, who did not like contradictions, and especially those who constantly jumped from one to another and introduced new arguments without any connection, so that it was not possible to know what to answer -- that is not the case.
Let me.
Do you recognize that education is good for the people?
'I admit,' said Levin inadvertently and immediately thought that he had not said what he thought.
He felt that if he admitted it, he would be proved to be saying nothing that made no sense.
As it will be proved to him, he did not know, but he knew that it would certainly logically be proved to him, and he was waiting for that proof.
The case is much easier than Konstantin Levin expected.
'If you admit it to be good,' said Sergei Ivanovic, 'you, as an honest man, can neither love nor empathize with such a cause and therefore do not want to work for him.
'But I do not yet recognize this as a good thing,' said Konstantin Levin, blushing.
You just said...
'I mean, I don't recognize it as good or possible.
'You can't know that without trying.'
'Well, let's say,' said Levin, though he did not think it at all, 'let's say so; but I still don't see why I'm gonna take care of it.
'What do you mean?
No, if we're talking, explain it to me from a philosophical point of view,' said Levin.
'I do not understand the philosophy here,' said Koznyshev, as Levin seemed, as if he had not recognized his brother's right to talk about philosophy.
And that annoyed Levin.
'Here's the point! 'Cause he's hot, he's talking. 'I think the engine of all our actions is a personal happiness.'
Now I, as a nobleman, see nothing in Earth's institutions to contribute to my well-being.
The roads are no better, nor can they be better; my horses drive me in bad ways.
I don't need a doctor or a point, I don't need a justice of the peace -- I never speak to him or turn to him.
Not only do I not need schools, but they're even bad, like I told you.
For me, the Earth's institutions are simply to pay 18 knots from the tithe, to go to the city, to sleep with the bedbugs, and to listen to all the crap and crap, and I'm not motivated by personal interest.
'Let me,' said Koznyshev, with a smile, 'the personal interest did not encourage us to work for the liberation of the peasants, but we did.
'No! 'Cause he's getting hotter and he's interrupting Konstantin. 'The liberation of the peasants was different.
It was a personal interest.
I wanted to get rid of this yoke that's been pushing us, all the good people.
But to be public, to talk about how many golds and how many pipes I need to spend in a town where I don't live; to be a jury and to judge the man who stole the ham, and to listen for six hours to all the nonsense that lawyers and prosecutors talk about, and as the chairman asks my old man, Aleška the fool, "Do you, Mr. defendant, accept the fact that the ham has been stolen?" - "Are you okay?"
Konstantin Levin had already been distracted, representing the chairman and Aleška the fool; he felt that this was all coming to terms with the case.
But Koznyshev shrugged his shoulders.
'Well, what are you saying?'
'I just want to say that the rights that affect me... my interest will always be protected by all means; that when we, the students, have searched and read our letters to the gendarme, I am prepared to defend these rights, to defend my rights of education, my freedoms.
I understand the military commitment that is ruining the fate of my children, my brothers and myself; I am ready to discuss what concerns me; but to judge where to distribute 40,000 Earth's money, or Aleshu the fool to judge -- I do not understand and I cannot.
Konstantin Levin spoke as if he had torn through the dam of his words.
Sergei Ivanovic smiled.
'And tomorrow you'll be suing: wouldn't it be nicer for you to be tried in an old criminal chamber?
'I will not sue.
I'm not gonna stab anyone, and I don't need it.
Well!-- he continued, jumping back to something completely inconvenient -- our institutions and all of this -- like the birches that we bumped into, like on a Trinity day, to make it look like a forest that grew up in Europe, and I can't really water and believe in those birches!
Koznyshev shrugged only with his shoulders, expressing this gesture astonishment as to where these birches now came from in their dispute, even though he immediately understood what his brother wanted to say.
'Let me see, this cannot be understood,' he observed. But Konstantin Levin wanted to justify the deficiency he knew about himself in indifference to the common good, and he continued.
'I think,' said Constantin, 'that no activity can be sustained,' if it has no basis in personal interest.
It is a common truth, philosophical,' he said, strongly repeating the word philosophical, as if to show that he too had the right, like everyone else, to speak of philosophy.
Koznyshev smiled again.
"And he has some kind of philosophy there, too, to serve his inclinations," he thought.
'Well, leave it to philosophy,' he said. &quot; The main objective of the philosophy of all centuries is precisely to find the necessary link that exists between personal interest and common interest.
But that's not the point, but the point is, I just need to correct your comparison.
The breezes aren't bumped, they're planted, they're planted, and they need to be treated more carefully.
Only those peoples have a future, only those who have a sense of and value for what is important and significant in their institutions.
And Koznyshev moved the question to an area of philosophical-historical, unaffordable to Konstantin Levin, and showed him all the injustice of his view.
'As for the fact that you don't like it, I'm sorry -- it's our Russian laziness and barbarism, and I'm sure you have a temporary error, and it will pass.'
Constantin didn't say a word.
He felt broken from all sides, but felt that what he wanted to say was not understood by his brother. All he didn't know was why it wasn't understood, because he couldn't tell what he wanted, because his brother didn't want to, or because he couldn't understand him.
But he did not delude himself into these thoughts, and he did not object to his brother, thinking about a completely different, personal matter. 'Well, let's go, though.
Koznyshev wrapped his last rod, Konstantin untied his horse, and they went.
Levin's personal case during his conversation with his brother was as follows: Last year, when he came to the side of the bed and was angry with the commander, Levin used his means of calm, he took the man's hair and began to mow.
He liked the work so much that he had to mow a number of times; he mowed out all the meadows in front of the house; and this year, in spring, he had a plan -- to mow with the men for days.
Since his brother's arrival, he's been thinking, isn't he?
He was ashamed to leave his brother alone all day long, and he feared that the brother would not laugh at him for it.
But when he walked through the meadow, remembering the impressions of the patsy, he almost decided he was gonna mow.
After an annoying conversation with his brother, he remembered that purpose again.
"It's a physical move, or my character is going to go down," he thought, and decided to touch, as embarrassing as it would be in front of his brother and people.
Since the evening, Konstantin Levin has gone to the office, ordered the work, and sent the villages to call for kosses for tomorrow in order to mow the Kalin Meadow, the largest and best.
'Oh, send my braid to Titus, please, to take him back and take him out tomorrow; perhaps I will cut myself, too,' he said, trying not to be confused.
The orderman smiled and said,
'I'm listening.'
Levin said to his brother for tea tonight.
'I think the weather is set,' he said. 'Tomorrow I start mowing.
'I love this job very much,' said Koznyshev.
'I love you terribly.
I've done it myself sometimes with men, and I want to do all day tomorrow.
Koznyshev raised his head and looked curiously at his brother. 'What do you mean?
Like men all day?
'Yes, it is very pleasant,' said Levin.
'It's as beautiful as a physical exercise, but you can hardly stand it,' said Sergei Ivanovic without any ridicule.
'I have tried.
It's hard first, then you get involved.
I think I'm gonna...
'That's it!
But tell me, how do men look at it?
They must be laughing that the barn is weird.
'No, I don't think so; but it is so together and fun and hard work that there is no time to think.'
'But how will you eat with them?
It's embarrassing to send you a lafit and a turkey fried.
'No, I'll only come home one time with their rest.'
The next morning Konstantin Levin got up earlier than usual, but his economic orders delayed him, and when he came to the elbow, the kosses were walking in the second row.
And the mountain opened to him, under the mountain, a shaded part of the meadow, with gray rows and black piles of kaftans removed by the kosses at the place from which they entered the first row.
As he drove up, he was opened up by a line that was stretched out, and by the men who swerved around, who were in the kaftans, who were in the same shirts.
He counted them forty-two.
They moved slowly on the uneven bottom of the meadow, where there was an old meadow.
Some of them were recognized by Levin.
There was an old man, Ermil, in a very long white shirt, bent down with a waving sauce; there was a young boy, Vashka, who was at Levin's dormitories, who took each row wide. There was Titus, in the middle of Levin's uncle, a skinny little man.
Levin cried from the horse, and tied her to the road, and met with Titus, who delivered the second steed out of the bush, and delivered it.
'Ready, my lord; shaves, shaves himself,' said Titus, with a smile, taking off his hat and giving him a braid.
Levin took a braid and began to try it on.
Ended rows, sweaty and hilarious scones went out one by one to the road and laughed and said hello to the barin.
They all looked at him, but no one said anything until a high old man on the road with a shrivelled and beardless face, wearing a sheep jacket, turned to him.
'Look, my lord, I've got the goose, I've got to keep up! 'He said, and Levin heard a discreet laugh between the kosses.'
'I will try to keep up,' he said, standing behind Titus and waiting for time to begin.
'Move it,' the old man repeated.
Titus set the place free, and Levin followed him.
The grass was low, on the road, and Levin, long gone and embarrassed by the look on his face, poked badly in the first minutes, even though he waved heavily.
He heard voices behind him:
'It's wrong, the handle is high, you see, he's bent like,' said one.
'Put more on the heel,' said the other.
'It's okay, it's getting hot,' continued the old man. 'You see, go...
You're taking a wide row, you're freaking out... master, you can't, you're trying for yourself!
You know, it's a contract!
That's what our hump brother used to do.
The grass went softer, and Levin followed Titus, listening but not answering and trying to make the best of herbing.
They've gone a hundred steps. Titus kept walking without stopping, not showing the slightest fatigue: but Levin was already afraid that he would not endure: thus he was tired.
He felt that he was out of control, and he decided to ask Titus to stop.
But at the same time, Titus himself stopped and, leaning down, took herbs, oats, and began to sharpen.
Levin killed himself and took a breath and looked back.
A man was walking behind him and apparently also tired, because now, without Levin's arrival, he stopped and began to sharpen.
Titus soaked his bosom and Levin's, and they went on.
It was the same at the second reception.
Titus swerved behind the swing without stopping or tired.
Levin followed him, trying to keep up, and he became more and more difficult: a moment came when he felt that he was no longer able, but at the same time Titus stopped and sharpened.
That's how they got through the front row.
And this long row seemed particularly difficult to Levin; but at the same time, when the row was made to pass and Titus, when he snatched his elbow on his shoulder, he took slow steps to follow the tracks left by his heels on the leopard, and Levin walked in the same way on his leopard, even though the sweat was plowing down his face and dripping from his nose and all his back was moist like he was soaked in water, he was very well.
He was particularly pleased that he now knew what he could endure.
His pleasure was only poisoned by the fact that his row was not good.
"I'm gonna wave less with my hand, more with my whole torso," he thought, comparing the thread of Titus's cut-up row to his punctured and unevenly lying next to him.
The first row, as Levin observed, Titus walked especially quickly, probably wanting to try the barn, and the row was caught long.
The following rows were already easier, but Levin must have worked hard to keep up with the men.
He didn't think anything, he didn't want anything but to keep up with the men and do the best he could.
He heard only the lashes of the elbow, and saw before him the distant straight figure of Titus, the folded semicircle of the leopard, the slow and swirling herbs and the heads of the flowers, near the blade of his elbow, and the end of the row before him, which would have a resting place.
Without understanding what it was or where it came from, in the middle of his work, he suddenly experienced a pleasant feeling of cold over hot sweaty shoulders.
He looked at the sky while he was poking his hair.
There came a low, heavy cloud, and it rained heavily.
Some men went to the kaftans, and put them on: others, just as Levin did, shook their shoulders with joy under pleasant refreshingness.
There's another row.
Long, short, good, bad grassy rows passed through.
Levin lost all consciousness of the time and was determined not to know whether it was late or early.
His work is now undergoing a change that has brought him great pleasure.
In the middle of his work, he found moments in which he forgot what he was doing, and it was easy for him, and at that very moment a row of him came out almost as roven and good as Titus.
But he just remembered what he was doing, and he started trying to do better, and he immediately felt the weight of the work, and a row came out of the fool.
After another row, he wanted to come in again, but Titus stopped and came to the old man and said something quietly to him.
They both looked at the sun. "What are they talking about, and why doesn't he come in the row?" 'I thought Levin, without realizing that the men had not stopped mosing for at least four hours, and it was time for them to have breakfast.'
'To breakfast, my lord,' said the old man.
'Is it time?
Well, breakfast.
Levin gave the braid to Titus and to the men who went to the caftans for bread, by means of a slightly splashed rain, a row of long, shrivelled space went to the horse.
He was the only one who realized that the weather wasn't right and that the rain was pissing his hay.
'It will ruin the hay,' he said.
'Nothing, my lord, in the rain of the braids, in the weather of the rows!' said the old man.
Levin untied the horse and went home for coffee.
Sergei Ivanovic just got up. After drinking coffee, Levin went back to the floor before Sergei Ivanovic was able to get dressed and go out to the dining room.
After breakfast, Levin was not in the same row as before, but between an old joker who invited him to his roommates and a young man who had only been married in the autumn and who had gone for the first summer.
The old man, standing straight ahead, walking straight and wide, moving his folded legs around, and the exact and smooth movement that did not seem to be worth him much more than the manoeuvring hand on the walk, as if playing, putting aside the same, tall row. I'm sure it wasn't him, but one spicy goat was the one who shoved it on the juicy grass.
There was a young Mischka walking behind Levin.
The lovely young face of his, tied in his hair with the harness of fresh grass, all worked with effort; but as soon as they looked at him, he smiled.
He must have been willing to die sooner than admit that it was difficult for him.
Levin walked between them.
It didn't seem so difficult in the heat of the pussies.
His sweat cooled him down, and the sun, the scalding back, the head, and his elbow, gave him strength and tenacity in his work; and more often and more, the moments of unconsciousness came when it was possible not to think about what you were doing.
Kosa cut herself.
It was a happy moment.
Even more joyous were the moments when, as he approached the river in which the rows lay, the old man was rubbing wet grass on the sauce, stripping its steel in the fresh water of the river, rinding the bar and buying Levin.
'Oh, my kvasca!
Oh, that's good? 'He said, winking.'
Indeed, Levin never drank such a drink as this warm water with floating green and rusty brandy taste.
And immediately afterwards, there came a blissful slow walk with a hand on its cospital, during which it was possible to wipe out the sweating sweat, to breathe full breasts, and to look around the stretch of the elbows and what was being done around it, in the woods and in the field.
The more Levin's share coughed, the more and more he felt the minutes of forgetting when his hands were no longer waving, but when the goat itself moved the whole body that was conscious of itself, full of life, and, as if magically, without the thought of it, the work was done the right and clear by itself.
Those were the happiest moments ever.
It was hard only when you had to stop making this unconscious move and think when you had to poach a pebble or an uncultivated pussy.
The old man did it easy.
The cat came in, he was changing the movement, and where he had his heel, where the end of the braids was stabbing the kitten on both sides with short blows.
And when he did so, he considered all things, and watched what was opened before him, that he would rip off the keg, eat it, or buy Levin; that he would throw away the braids with his sock; that he would look around the nest of the quail, from which the female flew out from under the cospit, and catch the goat that was in the way; and as he lifted it up with a fork, he showed Levin and cast it away.
And Levin and the young man behind him, these changes of movement were difficult.
They were both at work and unable to change the movement and at the same time observe what was in front of them.
Levin did not notice the timing.
If he had been asked how much time he had spent, he would have said that half an hour -- and the time had come for lunch.
On entering the row, the old man drew Levin's attention to girls and boys who, on various sides, were slightly visible, on the high grass and on the way to the kosses, carrying their hands with the knots of bread and wrapped with rags with quails.
'You see, the goats are crawling!' he said, pointing to them, and looked under his hand at the sun.
Two more rows went through, the old man stopped.
'Well, my lord, eat lunch!' he said with determination.
When they reached the river, the kosses went through the rows to the kaftans, where the children who had brought food sat waiting for them.
The men gathered, far under the carts, and the fellows under the crustite bush on which the herbs were put.
Levin came to them; he did not want to leave.
Any shyness in front of the barn has long since disappeared.
Guys were getting ready for lunch.
Some were washing, some were swimming in the river, others were setting up a resting place, unpacking bread bags, and sticking jugs with rugs.
The old man stuffed it in a cup of bread, crushed it with a stalk of spoons, poured water out of the tarp, cut the bread, and put salt on it, and prayed eastward.
'Well, my lord, my prison,' he said, kneeling in front of a cup.
The prison was so delicious that Levin thought of going home for lunch.
He had lunch with the old man and spoke to him about his domestic affairs, taking part in them alive, and informed him of all his cases and of all the circumstances that the old man might have been interested in.
He felt closer to him than to his brother, and he willingly smiled at the tenderness that he felt for him. When the old man stood up again, prayed, and lay right under the bush, putting the grass under his head, Levin did the same and, despite sticky, sticky flies and goats that tickled his sweaty face and body, fell asleep immediately and woke up only when the sun set on the other side of the bush and took it out.
The old man hasn't slept in a while, and he's been stabbing young guys.
Levin looked around him, and did not know the place: so things changed.
The vast area of the meadow was cut and glittered with a special, new glitter, with its already smelling rows, in evening scalp rays of the sun.
And the crucified bushes by the river, and the river itself, which had not been seen before, and now the shiny steel in its wieners, and the moving and rising people, and the steep wall of the grass of the shrivelled meadow, and the hawk, which was infested over the naked meadow, were all brand-new.
When Levin woke up, he realized how much had been cut, how much more could be done today.
It worked extremely well for forty-two people.
The entire large meadow, which had been coiled for two days with a barch in its thirty-scots, had already been cut. Corners with short rows remained unscathed.
But Levin wanted to embroider as much as possible on this day, and it was a shame in the sun, which was coming down so soon.
He felt no fatigue; he only wanted more and more quickly and as much as possible.
'What do you think we're gonna do, Maskin Verkh?' He said to the old man.
'God willing, the sun is not high.
Some water for the guys?
During the afternoon, when they sat down and smoked again, the old man announced to the guys that "Maskin Upstairs is gonna be a vodka."
'Eka, don't cut it!
Come on in, Titus!
Let's get out of here!
You eat at night.
Come in! 'The voices were heard, and when they had eaten the bread they went in.
'Well, guys, hang on!' said Titus, and almost went in front of him.
'Go, go!' said the old man, singing after him and easily following him, 'I will cut him off!
Look out!
And the young and the old, they were kind of sneaking around.
But as they hastened, they did not destroy the grass, and the rows were set aside as clean and clear.
The corner left in the corner was blown away in five minutes. More recent cosmos came in rows as the front side seized the kaftans on its shoulders and went across the road to Maskin Upper.
The sun was already coming down to the trees when they entered the woods of Maskin Upper.
The grass was in the belt in the middle of the holster, and soft and soft, poofy, somewhere in the woods, smashed by Ivan da maria.
After a short meeting -- whether to walk or to cross -- Prohor Ermilin, a famous cosine, a huge black man, went in front of him.
He walked forward, turned back and backslided, and everyone began to line up behind him, walking under the mountain on the crowbar and on the mountain beneath the wildest cannon of the forest. The sun set behind the woods.
Rosa had already fallen, and only the cosmos on the roller coast were in the sun, and at the bottom of which the steam was rising, and on the other side they walked in a fresh, shiny shadow.
The work boiled.
Cut with juicy sound and spicy smelling grass lay in high rows.
The groaning on short rows of scones from all sides, peeling their braids and sounding of those who ran into them, and the whistling of the whistle on the braided braid, and the jolly screaming of each other.
Levin was still walking between a young man and an old man.
The old man who wore his sheep jacket was just as fun, joking, and free to move.
In the woods, birch mushrooms were constantly infested with mushrooms that were cut with braids.
But the old man, when he meets the mushroom, every time he bends, picks up and puts it in his bosom. "An old hotel," he condemned.
As easy as it was to mow wet and weak grass, it was difficult to go down and climb the steep coshoes of the ravine.
But the old man wasn't shy-- got it.
While he was still a braid, he was a small, hard step on his feet, walking slowly on his feet, shaking his whole body and hanging under his shirt with herds, not missing a single herb, not a mushroom, and also joking with men and Levin.
Levin followed him, and often thought that he was bound to fall, climbing such a steep bog, where it was difficult to climb without a braid; but he climbed and did what was right.
He felt that some outside force was moving them.
Maskin Verkh was mowed down, finished with the last rows, put on the kaftans, and went to the house funny.
Levin sat on a horse and went home with regret to say goodbye to the men.
And he looked down from the mountain, and they were not seen in the mist that came up from the bottom; and none could hear except the merry, bitter voices, the groaning, and the sound of the groaning.
Koznyshev had lunch and drank water with lemon and ice in his room a long time ago, looking at the papers and magazines just received from the post office, when Levin, sticking to his forehead with sweaty hair and black hair, wet back and breasts, broke into his room with a fun talk.
'And we worked the whole meadow!
Oh, it's so good, it's amazing!
How did you live? 'Said Levin, completely forgetting yesterday's unpleasant conversation.
'Fathers! 'What you look like!' said Koznyshev, looking down on his brother at the first minute. 'Yes, but shut the door!' he cried. 'Surely he let in a dozen whole.'
Koznyshev hated flies and opened windows in his room only at night and carefully closed the doors.
'By God, none.
And if you let me in, I'll catch you.
You're not gonna believe what a pleasure it is!
How was your day?
'I'm good.
But you've been poking around all day, haven't you?
You're as hungry as a wolf, I think.
Kuzma made it all for you.
'No, I'm not hungry. I ate there.
I'm gonna go wash up.
'Well, go, go, and I will come to you now,' said Koznyshev, shaking his head, looking at his brother. 'Go quickly,' he added, smiling, and gathered his books and prepared to go. He suddenly had fun and didn't want to break up with his brother. 'Well, during the rain, where were you?
'What rain?
A little sneaky.
So I'll be right there.
So you had a good day?
Well, that's great. 'And Levin went off to get dressed.'
Five minutes later, the brothers got together in the dining room.
Although Levin felt that he did not want to eat, he sat down for lunch only to avoid hurting Kuzma, but when he began eating, he found his lunch extremely tasty.
Koznyshev, smiling, looked at him.
'Yes, you have a letter,' he said. 'Kuzma, bring it from the bottom, please.
Look at the door.
The letter was from Oblonski.
Levin read it out loud.
Oblonsky wrote from Petersburg, "I got a letter from Dolly, she's in Ergushov, and she's not okay.
Please go see her, help her with the advice, you know everything.
She'll be so happy to see you. She's all alone, poor girl.
A mother-in-law with everyone else abroad."
'That's great!
'I will certainly go to them,' said Levin. 'Cause we'll go together.
She's so nice.
Isn't that right?
'Are they not far from here?'
'Certain thirty. I think it's gonna be 40.
But it's a great road. We'll have a great trip.
'It is very good,' said Koznyshev, smiling all.
The look of the little brother had him directly for fun.
'Well, you have an appetite! 'He said, looking at his leaning face and neck above a plate of brown-red-tanned faces.'
'Great!
You're not gonna believe how useful this regime is against any bullshit.
I want to enrich medicine with a new term: Arbeitscur.
'Well, you don't need it, I think.'
'Yes, but different nervous patients.
'Yes, it must be tested.
And I wanted to come and look at you, but the heat was so intense, I didn't go beyond the woods.
I sat down and walked through the woods, met your feeder, and set her up about the men's eyes on you.
I understand they don't approve.
She said, "It's not God's business."
In general, it seems to me that the concept of popular is very firm in defining the requirements for what they call the "gospod" activity. And they won't let the gentlemen out of their bounds.
'Maybe; but it is a pleasure that I have never felt in my life.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Isn't that right? 'Saying to Levin.' 'What if they don't like it?'
Anyway, I think it's okay.
'In fact,' Koznyshev continued,' I see you are pleased with your day.
'Very pleased.
We cut off all the meadows.
And what an old man I've been friends with!
You can't imagine what a beauty it is!
Me too. First, I have solved two chess problems, and one is very nice, &quot; opened with a pawn.
I'll show you.
And then I thought about our conversation yesterday.
'What? About yesterday's conversation? 'Said Levin, blissfully squeezing and blowing away after the end of the meal, and determinedly unable to recall what it was like yesterday's conversation.
'I'll make sure you're right in part.
Our disagreement is that you drive a personal interest, and I believe that the interest of the common good should be in every person at a certain level of education.
Maybe you're right, which would be more desirable if you were interested in material activity. Actually, you're too preme-sautiere, as the French say; you want passion, energy or nothing.
Levin listened to his brother and was determined to understand nothing and did not want to understand it.
He was only afraid that his brother would ask him a question that would show that he had heard nothing.
'That's right, my friend,' said Koznyshev, touching his shoulder.
'Yes, of course.
Oh, come on!
'I do not stand for my own,' answered Levin with a child, a guilty smile.
"What was I arguing about? 'He thought.' 'Of course, and I am right, and he is right, and everything is fine.
All you have to do is go to the office."
He stood up, stretching and smiling.
Koznyshev smiled, too.
'You want to walk, let's go together,' said he, not wanting to break up with his brother, from whom freshness and awakeness had shown you. 'Come on, let's go to the office if you need it.'
'Oh, Fathers! 'Screamed Levin so loudly that Koznyshev was afraid.'
'What, what are you?'
'What's Agatha Mikhaylovna's hand? 'Said Levin, hitting himself on the head.' 'I forgot about her.
'A lot better.
'Well, I will run to her.
You don't have time to put your hat on, I'll be back.
And he's like a cracker with heels running down the stairs.
While Stepan Arkadič came to Petersburg to perform the most natural, known to all employees, although it was not clear to those who did not serve the most necessary duty without which there was no opportunity to serve -- to remind herself at the Ministry -- and in the performance of that duty, taking almost all the money from home, had had fun and pleasant time, both at the races and at the dormitories, Dolly and her children moved to the village in order to reduce the cost.
She moved to her dowry, the village of Jergushovo, the same one where the forest was sold in spring and which was 50 versts from Pokrovsky Levin.
In Jergushov, a large old house was broken a long time ago, and the prince was decorated and enlarged.
Twenty years ago, when Dolly was a kid, he was fit and comfortable, even though he stood like everyone else, side by side to the exit alley and south.
But now it was old and rotten.
When Stepan Arkadić also drove in the spring to sell the woods, Dolly asked him to wash the house and tell him to fix it.
Stepan Arkadić, like all the guilty husbands who took great care of his wife's comforts, searched the house himself and ordered everything he saw fit.
As he understood it, he had to break all the furniture, hang the gardens, clear the garden, make a bridge by the pond, and plant the flowers; but he forgot a lot of other things that were needed, the lack of which he then tortured Daria Alexandrovna.
As much as Stepan Arkadič tried to be a caring father and husband, he could not remember that he had a wife and children.
He had blank tastes, only he could handle them.
When he returned to Moscow, he proudly announced to his wife that everything was prepared, that the house would be a toy and that he advised her to go.
Stepan Arkadiyich, his wife's departure to the village was very pleasant in all respects: both children are fine and less expensive, and he is freer.
Daria Alexandrovna, on the other hand, considered moving to the village for the summer to be necessary for the children, especially for the girl who could not recover after the Scarlatine, and finally to get rid of the small humiliations, the small debts to the woodwork, the fish, the shoes that tormented her.
On top of that, she was pleased to leave because she wanted to take her sister Kitty to her village, who was to return from abroad in mid-summer, and was required to bathe.
Kitty wrote from the waters that nothing smiles as much as spending the summer with Dolly in Ergushov, full of childhood memories for both of them.
The early days of village life were very difficult for Dolly.
She lived in a village when she was a kid, and she had the impression that the village was saved from all the city's troubles, that life there wasn't beautiful, but it was cheap and comfortable: everything was there, everything was cheap, everything was possible, and the children were fine.
But now, when the mistress came to the village, she saw that it wasn't what she thought it was.
On the other day, it rained heavily upon their arrival, and at night it fell in the hallway and in the nursery, so the beds were moved to the living room.
There was no human cuisine; of the nine cows, one was said to be a cow, one was a bull, the other was the first calf, the third was old, the fourth was a Tugosisi; neither butter nor milk was even needed for children.
There were no eggs.
Chicken could not be obtained; old, purple, cocks were roasted and boiled.
You couldn't get the women to wash the floors -- everybody was on potatoes.
You couldn't ride 'cause one horse was jamming and ripping in.
There was nowhere to go; the whole bank of the river was trampled by cattle and opened from the road; even walking was not allowed, because the bastard entered the garden through a broken fence, and there was one scary bull that reeled and therefore must have been afraid.
There were no dress closets. As they were, they didn't close, and they opened themselves when they passed by them.
There were no irons or shorts; there was no laundromat or even a ironboard for the maiden.
For the first time, instead of being calm and resting, when she saw these terrible disasters, she was desperate: she worked hard, felt desperate, and held back tears from her eyes every minute.
The manager, a former wachmist, whom Stepan Arkadych loved and identified from the doormen for his beautiful and respectful appearance, did not take any part in the disasters of Daria Alexandrovna, respectfully said, "Nothing is possible, such a bad people," and did not help in anything.
The situation seemed hopeless. But in the house of Oblonski, as in all the family houses, there was one invisible but most important and useful face -- Matrena Philmononna.
She calmed the lady, assured her that everything would come together (it was her word, and Matway took it from her), and she acted without rushing or worrying.
She immediately got in touch with the orderman and on the first day she drank with her and with the orderman of tea under acacia and discussed all the cases.
The Matrena Philimonna Club was soon established under the acacia, and then, through this club, which was made up of concubines, chiefs, and clerks, the difficulties of life began to equalize a little bit, and after a week it was really all formed.
The roof was repaired, the cook, the cuisine was taken out, the chickens were bought, the milk was taken out, and the rods were sealed by the garden, the carnival was made by a carpenter, the cupboards were hooked to the closets, and they began to open themselves not at random, and the ironboard, wrapped in a soldier's scum, lay from the hand of the chair on the drawer and smelled of a girl's iron.
'There you go! And you were desperate,' said Matrena Philmononna, pointing to the board.
They even built a bathing suit from straw shields.
Lily started swimming, and some of her expectations, though not a calm but comfortable village life, came true for Darya Alexandrovna.
There was no peace of mind with the six children of Daria Alexandrovna. One was ill, the other could be ill, the third was missing something, the fourth showed signs of a bad character, etc., etc.
It is rare that short periods of calm have rarely been given.
But the troubles and anxiety were the only possible happiness for Daria Alexandrovna.
If she hadn't, she would have stayed alone with her thoughts about a husband who didn't love her.
But also, no matter how hard it was for the mother to fear disease, the disease and the grief in view of the signs of bad inclinations in the children, the children themselves were now paying her little joys for her grief.
The joys were so small that they were as invisible as gold in the sand, and at bad times she saw only sorrows, one sand; but there were good moments when she saw only joy, one gold.
Now, in the solitude of the village, she has become more and more aware of these joys...
Often, when she looked at them, she made every effort to convince herself that she was mistaken, that as a mother, she was partial to her children; yet she could not help but tell herself that she had beautiful children, all six, all in different births, but those that rarely existed -- and she was happy and proud of them.
At the end of May, when she had become more or less comfortable, she had received her husband &apos; s reply to her complaints about the lack of village facilities.
He wrote to her, saying he was sorry that he hadn't thought it through, and he promised to come at the earliest opportunity.
This opportunity did not arise and, until early June, Daria Alexandrovna lived alone in the village.
Petrovkovki, on Sunday, Daria Alexandrovna went to the luncheon to attract all her children.
Daria Alexandrovna, in her heartfelt, philosophical conversations with her sister, mother, and friends, often surprised them with her free will about religion.
She had a strange religion of methmpsychosis, which she firmly believed in, with little concern for the dogmas of the church.
But in the family, she -- not just to set an example, but from the bottom of her heart -- had strictly complied with all the church requirements, and the fact that the children had not been to the communion for about a year was of great concern to her, and, with the full approval and sympathy of Matrona Philmonna, she decided to do so now in the summer.
Daria Alexandrovna thought a few days ahead of how to dress all the children.
Dressings were sewn, rewrapped and washed, scarring and shrubs were released, buttons were sewn and ribbons were prepared.
One dress on Tanya, which made an English woman, ruined a lot of Daria Alexandrovna's blood.
An English woman was embroidered, embroidered in the wrong place, took out her sleeves and completely ruined the dress.
Tane grabbed his shoulders so it hurt to see. But Matrena Filimonna figured out how to insert a blade and make a pelerin.
The case went well, but there was almost a fight with an English woman.
In the morning, however, everything was settled, and by nine o &apos; clock -- the period before which the father was asked to wait with the poor -- radiant, dressed children stood by the porch in front of the porch, waiting for the mother.
The stroller, instead of the raven, was trapped, under the protection of Matrena Philimonna, the commander of Burogo, and Daria Alexandrovna, who was detained for her toilet, dressed in a white whiskey dress, went out to sit down.
Daria Alexandrovna scrubbed and dressed with care and excitement.
She used to dress for herself to be beautiful and to like her; then, the more she grew old, the more unpleasant she became to dress; she saw her foolishness. But now she's dressed with pleasure and excitement again.
Now she didn't dress for herself, not for her beauty, but for her, as a mother of these adorables, to ruin the general impression.
And the last time she looked in the mirror, she was happy with herself.
She was good. Not as good as she used to want to be at the ball, but good for the purpose she now meant.
There was no one in the church but men and janitors and their women. But Daria Alexandrovna saw, or thought she saw, the admiration of her children and her.
Not only were the children beautiful themselves in their dresses, but they were nice in how well they behaved.
Alesha really wasn't doing very well: he turned around and wanted to see his jacket behind him; but he was really nice.
Tanya stood like a big one and watched the little ones.
But the lesser Lily was adorable with her naive surprise in front of everyone, and it was hard not to smile when, when she was involved, she said, "Please, some more."
When the children returned home, they felt something solemn had happened, and they were very humble.
Everything was going well at home; but after breakfast Grish began to whistle and, worst of all, did not listen to the English and was left without a sweet pie.
Daria Alexandrovna wouldn't let this day go to punishment if she was here; but she had to support the English woman's order, and she confirmed her decision that Grisha wouldn't have a sweet pie.
It messed up a little bit of the general joy.
Grisha cried, saying that Nicolenka had whistled, but that he had not been punished and that he was not crying from a pie -- he didn't care -- but that he was unjust.
It was too sad, and Daria Alexandrovna decided to talk to an English woman and forgive Grisha and go to her.
But when she passed through the hall, she saw a scene filled with such joy in her heart that tears appeared in her eyes, and she forgave the perpetrator herself.
The one who was punished sat in the room on the corner window, and Tanya stood beside him with a plate.
As if she wanted a doll dinner, she asked the English woman to take her pie to the nursery and instead brought it to her brother.
And while he was crying about the injustice of his punishment, he ate the pie that had been brought, and he said, "Eat yourself, we'll eat together... together."
At first, Tania felt sorry for Grisha, then conscious of her virtuous conduct, and her tears were also in her eyes; but she did not refuse to eat her share.
When they saw their mother, they were scared, but when they looked at her face, they realized that they were doing good, laughed, and with full cake, they began to wipe their lips with their smiling hands, and they covered all their radiant faces with tears and jam.
'Mothers!Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
New white dress!
Tanya!
Grisha! 'Said the mother, trying to save the dress, but with tears in her eyes, smiling with a blissful, joyful smile.'
The new dresses were removed, the girls were told to wear blouses, and the boys were told to put on a line -- again, to disappoint the commander, Burgo in the air -- to go for mushrooms and bathing.
The groaning groaned up into the nursery and didn't stop until he left for the bathing suit.
The mushroom was filled with a basket, even Lily found a berze mushroom.
Before, Miss Ghul would find and show her, but now she's found a big birch whore, and there's a general excited cry, "Lily found a whore!"
Then they drove up to the river, put the horses under the birches, and went to the bathing suit.
Coach Terentius, tied to a tree waving his horses, lay down, herbs, in the shadow of the birch, and smoked tutuuns, while from the bathing suit to the-- there was a squeezing of a child's hilarious scream before him.
Although it was difficult to watch and stop all the children's pranks, it was difficult to remember and not to confuse all those stockings, pantalons, boots from different legs, and untie, unbutton and tie the tags and buttons, Daria Alexandrovna, who had always loved a bathing suit for herself, who considered it useful for the children, did not enjoy anything as much as that bathing with all the children.
Picking up all these puffy legs, putting stockings on them, grabbing and drowning those naked calfs and hearing those happy and scared screams; seeing these suffocating, open, scared, and funny faces, these splashing little ones of their own, was a great pleasure for her.
When half of the children were already dressed, the bathing suit was approached and the women who were walking after the snout and the milkman were shyly stopped.
Matrena Philiponna clicked one to let her dry the water-dropped sheet and shirt, and Daria Alexandrovna spoke to the women.
The women, who had initially laughed in their hand and did not understand the question, soon dared and talked, immediately bribing Daria Alexandrovna with the sincere love they showed.
'You look beautiful, white as sugar,' said one, staring at Taneku and shaking her head. 'And the thin one...'
'Yes, she was sick.
'You see, you were bathing, too,' the other said on the breast.
'No, he's only three months old,' replied with the pride of Daria Alexandrovna.
'Here you are!
'And you have children?
'There were four, two left: a boy and a girl.
I took the meat from the last one.
'How old is she?
'It's another year.
'What took you so long to feed?
'Our custom: three posts...'
And the conversation became the most interesting for Daria Alexandrovna: How did she give birth? What's wrong with being sick? Where's the husband? How often does it happen?
Daria Alexandrovna didn't want to leave the women, she was so interested in talking to them, so they had the same interests.
The most pleasant thing about her was that she clearly saw how many of these women admired her children and how good they were.
The women made fun of Darius Alexandrovna and hurt the English woman because she was the cause of this strange laugh.
One of the young women looked at an English woman dressed after all, and when she wore a third skirt, she couldn't help but say, "You've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you're not gonna do it!" 'She said, and everyone laughed.'
Surrounded by all the ransomed, wet heads, children, and Darya Alexandrovna, with a handkerchief on her head, she was on her way to the house when the coachman said,
'The Barin seems to be walking in a tavern, and Daria Alexandrovna looked forward and rejoiced when she saw in a gray hat and a gray coat of a familiar figure of Levin coming towards them.
She's always been happy with him, but now she's especially happy that he sees her in all her glory.
No one better than Levin could understand her greatness.
When he saw her, he found himself in front of one of his imaginary future family lives.
'You are certainly the heir, Daria Alexandrovna.
'Ah, I am so glad!' she said, reaching out her hand to him.
'I'm glad you didn't let me know.'
My brother lives.
I got a note from Steve that you're here.
'From Steve? 'I was surprised to ask Darya Alexandrovna.'
'Yes, he writes that you have moved, and thinks that you will allow me to help you with something,' said Levin, and said it, suddenly he was embarrassed and, having interrupted his speech, he continued silently to walk by the ruler, tearing apart the fake escapes and eating them.
He was embarrassed by the assumption that Daria Alexandrovna would be unhappy with the help of an outsider in the matter to be done by her husband.
Daria Alexandrovna really didn't like that stepan Arkadyich way of imposing his family's affairs on strangers. And she immediately realized that Levin understood that.
For this subtleness of understanding, for this delicateness, she loved Levin Daria Alexandrovna.
'I realized, of course,' said Levin, 'that it only means that you want to see me, and it is very happy.'
Of course, I imagine you, the city mistress, are wild here, and if you need anything, I'm all yours.
'Oh, no! 'Yes,' said Dolly. 'The first time was uncomfortable, and now everything is well arranged thanks to my old nanny,' she said, pointing to Matrena Philemononna, who understood what was being said about her, and was having fun and friendly smiles for Levin.
She knew him and knew he was a good bridegroom, and she wanted things to work out.
'Let's sit down, we'll bend over here,' she said to him.
'No, I'll walk.
Kids, who's gonna race horses with me?
The children knew Levin very little, did not remember when they saw him, but did not show him the strange sense of shyness and disgust that children so often experience towards adult pretending people and for which they are so often and painfully hurt.
Pretending in anything can deceive the smartest, most discerning man; but the most limited child, however skilledly hidden, recognizes him and turns away.
Whatever defects there were in Levin, there was no sign in him, so the children showed him the kind of friendship they found on their mother's face.
At his invitation, the two elders immediately went to him and ran with him as easily as they would run with the nanny, Miss Ghul, or the mother.
Lily also begged him, and the mother handed her over to him; he put her on his shoulder, and ran with her.
'Don't be afraid, don't be afraid, Daria Alexandrovna! 'He said, laughing at my mother,' he said, 'it is impossible for me to hurt or drop.'
And looking at his witty, strong, careful, and over-stressed movements, his mother calmed down and laughed and smiled at him with pleasure.
Here in the village, with the children and with the cuteness of him, Daria Alexandrovna, Levin came to the place where he often found the children's joy in the spirit that Daria Alexandrovna especially loved in him.
Running with the children, he taught them gymnastics, made Miss Ghul laugh with his bad English language, and told Daria Alexandrovna his lessons in the village.
After lunch, Daria Alexandrovna, sitting alone with him on the balcony, spoke of Kitty.
'Do you know? Kitty will come here and spend the summer with me.
'Right? 'He said, when he had broken out, and immediately, to change the conversation, he said, 'So send you two cows?'
If you want to count, pay me five rubles a month if you're not ashamed.
'No, thank you.'
We're all set up.
'Well, I will look at your cows, and if I may, I will order how to feed them.
It's all about the feed.
And Levin, just to distract the conversation, described to Daria Alexandrovna the theory of dairy farming, which is that the cow is only a machine to convert feed into milk, etc.
He said that, and he was eager to hear the details about Kitty, and he feared it together.
He was afraid that the calm he had so hard to gain would upset him.
'Yes, but you have to keep an eye on all this, but who will?' 'Darya Alexandrovna answered reluctantly.
So now she's set up her farm through Matrena Philemononna that she didn't want to change anything about it; nor did she believe Levin's knowledge of agriculture.
The argument that a cow was a milk machine was suspicious to her. She felt that this kind of reasoning could only interfere with the household.
She thought it was a lot easier, just as Matron Philiponna explained, to give Pesruch and Belopeha more food and drink, and to keep the cook from taking the garbage out of the laundry cow's kitchen.
That was clear.
And the discourse about flour and herbal food was questionable and unclear. The point is, she wanted to talk about Kitty...
'Kiti writes to me that she wants nothing more than privacy and calm,' said Dolly after the silence.
'Is her health better? 'Indignantly asked Levin.'
'Thank God she's fully recovered.
I never believed she had breast disease.
'Ah, I am very pleased! 'Said Levin, and something touching, helpless seemed to Dolly in his face while he said it and looked at her silently.
'Listen, Konstantin Dmitrich,' said Daria Alexandrovna, smiling with her kind and a little laughing smile, 'why are you angry with Kitty?
I'm not angry,' said Levin.
'No, you're angry.
Why didn't you come to us or them when you were in Moscow?
'Daria Alexandrovna,' he said, blushing to the root of his hair, 'I am surprised that you, with your kindness, do not feel that way.
How do you-- you don't feel sorry for me when you know...
'What do I know?
'You know that I proposed and that I was denied,' Levin said, and all the tenderness he felt for Kitty a minute ago was replaced in his heart by his anger for insult.
'Why do you think I know?'
'Because everyone knows it.'
'That's what you're wrong about; I didn't know it, even though I knew it.
'Ah! Well, now you know.
'I only knew that something had happened, that she had suffered terribly, and that she had asked me never to talk about it.
And if she didn't tell me, she wouldn't tell anyone.
But what did you have?
Tell me.
'I told you what happened.
'When?
'The last time I was with you.
'You know what I'll tell you,' said Daria Alexandrovna, 'and I feel awful, awful sorry for her.
You only suffer from pride...
'Maybe,' said Levin, 'but...
She interrupted him:
'But her poor thing, I feel awful and awful sorry for her.'
I get it now.
'Well, Daria Alexandrovna, forgive me,' he said, getting up. 'Goodbye!
Daria Alexandrovna, goodbye.
'No, wait,' she said, grabbing him by the sleeve. 'Wait, sit down.
'Please, please, let us not talk about it,' he said, sitting down while feeling that there was a hope in his heart that seemed to be buried.
'If I didn't love you,' said Daria Alexandrovna, and tears came to her eyes, 'if I didn't know you as I know you...
The feeling of the dead came to life more and more, lifted up and took possession of Levin's heart.
'Yes, I've come to understand now,' continued Daria Alexandrovna. 'You can't understand that; it's always clear to you men who are free and who choose who you love.
But a girl in a waiting position, with this woman's, girl's shame, a girl who sees you men from afar, takes your word -- a girl can and may feel like she doesn't know what to say.
'Yes, if the heart does not speak...'
'No, the heart says, but think: you men have views of a girl, you drive into the house, you get close, you look, you wait, you find what you love, and then, when you are convinced that you love, you propose...
'Well, that's not entirely true.
'Anyway, you propose when your love is ripe, or when you have a balance between the two chosen.'
And the girl isn't asked.
They want her to choose, and she can't choose, and she just answers: yes, she can't.
"Yeah, the choice between me and Wronski," Levin thought, and the dead man who lived in his soul died again, and only put painful pressure on his heart.
'Daria Alexandrovna,' he said, 'it's the way to choose a dress, or I don't know what kind of purchase, not love...
The choice is made, and all the better... and there can be no repetition.
'Ah, pride and pride!' said Daria Alexandrovna, as if despiseing him for the lowness of that feeling in comparison to the other feeling that some women know. 'As you proposed to Kitty, she was in a situation where she could not answer. There was a hesitation in her.
The oscillation is either you or Wronsky. 'She saw him every day. You haven't seen him in a while.
Let's say if she was older -- for me, for example, there could be no hesitation in her place.
He was always disgusting to me, and he ended up like that.
Levin remembered Kitty's answer.
She said, "No, it can't be...
'Daria Alexandrovna,' he said dry, 'I appreciate your trust in me; I think you're wrong.
But, whether I'm right or wrong, this pride that you despise makes it impossible for me to think of Katherina Alexandrovna -- you know, absolutely impossible.
'I'll just say one more thing: you understand that I'm talking about a sister that I love as my children.
I'm not saying that she loves you, but I just wanted to say that her refusal at that moment doesn't prove anything.
'I don't know! 'Pushing up,' said Levin. 'If only you knew how much you hurt me!
Even as your child would die, and you would be told, "He would be like this, and he could live, and you would rejoice in him." And he's dead, he's dead, he's dead...
'How funny you are,' said Daria Alexandrova with a sad laugh, despite Levin's excitement. 'Yes, I understand more and more now,' she kept thinking. 'So you won't come to us when Kitty arrives?'
'No, I won't.
Of course, I will not avoid Katherina Alexandrovna, but where I can, I will try to save her from the trouble of my presence.
'You are very, very funny,' she repeated, looking tenderly at his face. 'Well, good, as if we hadn't said anything about it. Why are you here, Tanya? 'Daria Alexandrovna said in French to a girl who had entered.
'Where's my shovel, Mother?
'I speak French, and so do you.
The girl wanted to say, but she forgot how to speak French; her mother told her and then in French told her where to find the shoulder.
And that seemed unpleasant to Levin.
Everything now seemed to him in the house of Daria Alexandrovna and in her children no longer as nice as it used to be.
"And why does she speak French to the children? I think he's thinking. 'How unnatural and false!
And the kids feel it.
'Learning French and learning from sincerity' he thought with himself, not knowing that Daria Alexandrovna had changed her mind twenty times, and yet, to the detriment of sincerity, he found it necessary to teach his children in this way.
'But where do you want to go?'
Sit down.
Levin stayed until tea, but his joy disappeared, and he was embarrassed.
After tea, he went out to the front to serve the horses and, when he returned, found Daria Alexandrovna excited, upset with her face and tears in front of her eyes.
While Levin was leaving, there was an event for Darya Alexandrovna, which suddenly destroyed all her happiness and pride of the children today.
Grisha and Tanya fought for the ball.
Daria Alexandrovna, when she heard a scream in the nursery, ran out and caught them in a terrible state.
Tanya held Grisha by the hair, and he, with a disfigured evil face, hit her with his fists.
Something came out of Darya Alexandrovna's heart when she saw it.
Like the darkness of her life, she realized that her children, whom she was so proud of, were not only ordinary, but not even good, ill - mannered children, with gross, brutal inclinations, wicked children.
She could not speak or think of anything else, nor could she fail to tell Levin of her misfortune.
Levin saw that she was unhappy, and tried to comfort her, saying that it was not a bad thing to prove that all the children were fighting; but in saying it, in his heart Levin thought, "No, I will not break and speak French with my children, but I will not have such children: I must not spoil, nor have children, and they will be adorable.
Yeah, I'm not gonna have kids like that."
He said goodbye and left, and she didn't hold him back.
In half July, the chief of the sister village, twenty versts from Pokrovsky, appeared to Levin, reporting on the progress of the works and the cut.
The main income from the sister's estate was from the flood meadows.
In previous years, the shrubs were dealt with by men for 20 rubles per tithe.
When Levin took the name into control, he looked at the sheaths and found that they were worth more, and set a price for ten twenty-five rubles.
The men did not give the price and, as Levin suspected, beat the other buyers.
Then Levin went there himself, and ordered that the meadow be removed with a portion of the hire, part of the share.
By all means, men prevented this innovation, but the case went on, and in the first year, the meadow was almost doubled.
In the third and last year, the same men's opposition continued, and the cleaning was carried out in the same manner.
This year, the men took all the shrubs out of the third half, and now the chief came to announce that the shrubs had been removed and that he, fearing the rain, had invited the clerk to join him, and he had already separated and scrubbed eleven of the Lord's Stogs.
The undefined answers to the question of how much hay there was on the main meadow, the hastyness of the chief who divided the hay without demand, all over the tone of the man Levin realized that there was something wrong with that part of the hay, and he decided to go to believe the matter himself.
On arriving at lunch in the village and leaving a horse with an old friend, the husband of a brotherly nurse, Levin went into the old man's beekeeper, seeking details from him about the cleaning of the elbow.
A speaking gentle old man, Parmenich, happily accepted Levin, showed him all his household, gave him all the details of his bees and the trench of this year; but Levin's questions about the carpet were vaguely and reluctantly spoken to him.
That was even more so in Levin's conjecture.
He went to the elbow and took a look at the haystack. In the stogs, there could not be fifty horses, and in order to convict the men, Levin told them to call the hay-driveers now, to lift up one stog, and to transport them to the barn.
Only thirty-two roads came out of the storm.
Despite the Chief's assurance about the chubbyness of the hay and how it settled in the stogs, and his God's that everything was in God's way, Levin insisted that the hay was shared without his command and that he therefore did not accept the hay for fifty moats in the hay.
After a long debate, the case was decided that the men would accept these eleven stegs, counting the 50 wons, for their share, and that they would devote them to God's share again.
The negotiations continued until noon.
When the last hay was divided, Levin, in charge of the rest of the shopkeeper's supervision, sat on a punctured pickle of a cop, staring at the people's boiling meadows.
In front of him, in the confluence of the river behind the marsh, ripping out the callable voices, the women's sandwich was moving, and from the trembling hay, the gray winding wails were quickly drawn out across the light green have.
Women were followed by men with wands, and large, tall, swollen cops grew out of the gross.
On the left of the meadow that had already been removed, the carts grumbled, and one after the other, served by the great navilins, the cops vanished, and the horses that hanged upon their butts were filled with heavy gardens of fermented hay.
'To get rid of the weather! There's gonna be hay! 'The old man who sat by Levin said.' 'Thai, not hay!
Exactly drowning the grain as it was picked up, he added it to it, pointing to the punctured cops. 'They took half of the good stuff out of lunch.
'The last one, is it?' 'He cried at the small one, who, standing on the front of the cart and waved at the ends of the stumps, was passing by.'
'The last one, Father! 'Screaming at the young man, holding the horse, and smiling, looking back at the funny, also smiled at the rosy woman sitting in the cartcase,' and went on.
'Who is this?
Son? 'I asked Levin.'
'My little one,' said the old man with a sweet smile.
'Good for you!
'Nothing small.
'Am I married?'
'Yes, he went to Philipovka for the third year.
'Well, there are children, too?'
'What children!
For a year he understood nothing, and he was ashamed,' answered the old man. 'Well, hay!
The tea is real!' he repeated, wanting to change the conversation.
Levin looked closely at Wanka Parmenov and his wife.
They were poking a cop near him.
Ivan Parmenov stood on the road, taking, levelling and unlocking the huge navilins of the hay, which first with the husks and then with the wands of his handsome young mistress.
The young woman worked lightly, funny, and cleverly.
The big, tailed hay didn't go straight to the forks. She set it up first, she put it in the forks; then she put all the weight of her body on them in a steady and rapid motion, and immediately she pushed the red cube over her back, straightened out, and, putting the whole breast out of the white curtain, grabbed the hand of the fore with a sly grip, and hurled the navil up high on the vault.
Ivan rashly, apparently trying to save her from any moment of unnecessary labor, caught up in the wide opening of his hands, hand - handed cocktails, and set her on the road.
After the last hay had been burgled, the woman fell asleep behind her neck, rubbing a rubbish over her white, unburned forehead with a red handkerchief, and climbed under the cart to tie the ropes.
Ivan taught her how to hold on to a fox, and he laughed at something she said.
In the words of both faces, there was strong, young, newly awake love.
The vase was tied up.
Ivan jumped off and took a good, fat horse for a reason.
Baba scrambled on the pavilion and took a good step, waving her hands, and went to the women who had gathered together.
Ivan, on his way to the road, entered the road with the other horses.
Ladies with rags on their shoulders, glittering with bright flowers and groaning with buzzing, hilarious voices, went behind the hordes.
One brute, wild babie heard the song and sang it again, and, as a matter of urgency, they picked up the same song again from the beginning, half a hundred different, rough, and thin, healthy voices.
The women with the song were approaching Levin, and he felt that the cloud with the thunder of joy was coming at him.
The cloud swooped, grabbed him, and the cop he was lying on, and the other cops and the rugs and all the meadows with the far field -- everything went in and jammed under the size of this wild, fun song with screams, whistlings, and jockeys.
Levin was jealous of this healthy fun and wanted to take part in the expression of this joy of life. But there was nothing he could do, and he had to lie down and watch and listen.
When the people with the song disappeared from sight and hearing, Levin became sore for his loneliness, for his physical neglect, for his hostility toward this world.
Some of the same men who argued with him most about hay, those whom he had wronged, or those who wanted to deceive him, were the same men who bowed to him, and apparently did not have, nor could they have, any evil against him, nor just any repentance, but also memories that they wanted to deceive him.
It's all drowned in the sea of fun work together. God gave me a day, God gave me strength.
And the day and the strength are devoted to labor, and in it is the reward itself. Who's the job for?
What will be the fruits of labor? These are foreign and null and void considerations.
Levin often admired this life, often feeling jealous of people living this life, but for the first time today, especially under the impression that he had seen in Ivan Parmenov's relationship with his young wife, Levin made it clear for the first time that it was up to him to change the difficult, idle, artificial and personal life he had lived into this working, clean, and general lovely life.
The old man who sat with him went home a long time ago; the people took care of everything.
The Middle Ones have gone home, and the Far Ones have gone to dinner and sleep in a meadow.
Levin, undetected by the people, continued to lie on the cop and to look, listen, and think.
The people who stayed in the meadow didn't sleep most of the short summer night.
First, I heard a lot of fun talk and a laugh at dinner, and then again, songs and laughter.
The whole long day of work has left no trace of them except for fun.
It was quiet before dawn.
The only sound heard was the silent sound of frogs and horses sniffing through the meadows in the fog up in the morning.
When Levin woke up, he stood up and looked over the stars and realized that the night had passed.
"Well, what am I gonna do?
How am I gonna do that?" 'He said to himself, trying to express to himself all that he had changed his mind and felt on that short night.
Everything he had changed his mind and sensed was divided into three separate moves of thought.
One was a denial of his old life, of his useless knowledge, and of his needless education.
This denial gave him pleasure and was easy and easy for him.
Other thoughts and visions related to the life he wanted to live now.
He felt clearly the simplicity, purity, legitimacy of this life and was convinced that he would find in it the satisfaction, comfort and dignity that he felt so painfully lacking.
But the third set of thoughts turned to the question of how to make this transition from old to new.
And it didn't seem clear to him.
"Wife's name?
Have a job and need a job?
Leave Pokrovsky? Buy the land?
You want me to join the community? Marry a peasant woman?
How am I gonna do that? 'He asked himself again, and found no answer.' 'I haven't slept all night, though, and I can't make myself clear,' he said to himself. 'I'll figure it out later.
One thing is true, this night has decided my fate.
All my old dreams of family life are nonsense, not that,' he said to himself. 'It's all so much simpler and better...'
"How beautiful!" he thought, looking at a strange, like a pearmute shell of white cloud gloves, stopping over his head in the middle of the sky. 'How lovely it is on this lovely night!
And when did this sink get formed?
I recently looked at the sky, and there was nothing on it -- just two white stripes.
Yeah, that's how my outlook on life changed."
He came out of the meadow and walked on a big road to the village.
The breeze rose, and it became gray, dark.
The moment has come before the usual dawn, full of the victory of the light over the darkness.
Squeezing from the cold, Levin walked quickly, staring at the ground. "What's that? "Someone is on his way," he thought, after hearing the Burundians, and raised his head.
Forty feet away from him, facing him, on the big ant road he was walking, driving four carriages with screws.
Breathing horses craved from the stakes to the breath, but a crafty dungeon, sitting side by side on the goats, kept his breath on the track, so the wheels ran smoothly.
That was the only thing Levin noticed, and without thinking about who could go, he looked at the carriage in a scattered way.
In the carriage there was an old lady in the corner, and by the window, apparently just woke up, there was a young girl sitting by both hands by the white cap ribbons.
Light and thoughtful, full of graceful and complex inner life alien to Levin, she looked through him at the dawn of the sunrise.
At the very moment, as the sight disappeared, the true eyes looked at him.
She recognized him, and the surprise of joy highlighted her face.
He couldn't have made a mistake.
Only those eyes were there.
There was only one thing in the world that could concentrate the whole world and the meaning of life for him.
It was her.
It was Kitty. He realized she was on her way to Ergushovo from the railway station.
And all that was bothering Levin on that sleepless night, all the decisions he made, all of a sudden, were gone.
He repulsedly remembered his dreams of marrying a peasant woman.
It was only in this fast-distant carriage that moved to the other side of the road that there was the possibility of resolving such a painfully difficult mystery of his life.
She didn't look out anymore.
The sound of the ressor stopped being heard, and a little bit of bubbly became heard.
Lai dogs showed that the carriage had passed through and the village -- and there were empty fields, the village ahead, and he himself, lonely and alien, walking alone on an abandoned large road.
He looked up at the sky, hoping to find the sink he was admiring, which represented the entire course of his thoughts and feelings this night. There was nothing more like a sink in the sky.
There, in an unreachable height, a mysterious change has already taken place. There was no trace of the sink, and there was an even, spread over half the sky of the carpet all the crafty and crafty lambs.
The sky was blue and shining with the same tenderness, but with the same unreachableness answered his questioner's eyes.
'No,' he said to himself, 'as good as this life is, simple and hard to work, I cannot go back to it.
I love her."
No one, apart from the closest people to Alexei Alexandrovich, knew that the coldest and wisest man in sight had one, contradicting the general warehouse of his character, a weakness.
Alexey Alexandrovich could not stand to hear and see the tears of a child or woman.
The view of tears led him to a state of confusion, and he lost his complete ability to think.
The ruler of his office and the secretary knew that and warned the applicants not to cry unless they wanted to ruin their business.
"He will be angry and will not listen to you," they said. Indeed, in these cases, the mental disorder caused by the tears in Alexei Alexandrovich was expressed in a rush of anger.
"I can't, I can't do anything.
Let's get out of here!" &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;He used to scream in these cases. &gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;i&gt;&gt;&gt;He used to scream in these cases.
When, returning from the races, Anna announced to him her relationship with him and immediately thereafter, covered her face with her arms, cried, but in spite of his anger toward her, Alexandrovich felt at the same time the tide of a mental disorder that had always made him cry.
Knowing this, and knowing that the expression of his feelings at this moment would not be appropriate, he tried to contain every manifestation of life and therefore did not move or look at it.
That was the strange expression of deadness on his face that struck Anna so hard.
When they came to the house, he dropped her off from the carriage, and made an effort to forgive her with the usual courtesy, and said words that did not bind him at all; he said that he would inform her of his decision tomorrow.
His wife's words, which confirmed his worst doubts, caused severe pain in his heart.
The pain was reinforced by the strange sense of physical pity for her caused by her tears.
But remaining alone in the carriage, Alexis Alexandrovich, to his surprise and joy, he felt a perfect release from that pity and from the doubts and suffering of jealousy that he had recently experienced.
He felt the feeling of a man who pulled out a long toothache. After a terrible pain and a feeling of something huge, bigger than the head itself pulled out of his jaw, a sick man suddenly, not believing yet his happiness, feels that there is no more that has poisoned his life for so long, bound all his attention to himself, and that he can once again live, think, and be interested in more than one of his teeth.
That feeling was felt by Alexi Alexandrovich. The pain was weird and scary, but now it's gone; he felt that he could live again and think of more than one wife.
"With no honor, no heart, no religion, spoiled woman!
I've always known that, and I've always seen it, though I've tried to spare her, to deceive myself,' he said to himself.
And it really seemed to him that he had always seen it; he remembered the details of their past lives, which had not previously seemed to him to be anything bad -- these details now made it clear that it had always been spoiled.
"I was wrong to tie my life to her; but there is nothing wrong with my error, and therefore I cannot be unhappy.
'It's not my fault,' he said to himself, 'but it's her.
But I don't care about her.
She doesn't exist for me..."
Anything that affects her and her son, to whom, like her, his feelings have changed, has ceased to occupy him.
One thing that occupied him now was the question of how the best, most decent, most convenient for yourself, and therefore the most just way to get away from the dirt that she splashed in her fall, and to continue on her path of active, honest and beneficial life.
"I can't be unhappy because a contemptible woman has committed a crime; I just have to find the best way out of the difficult situation she puts me in.
And I will find him,' he said to himself, frowning more and more. 'I am not the first, I am not the last.' And, not to mention the historical examples, beginning with the refreshing memory of all the Beautiful Elena Menelaus, a number of cases of wives' modern infidelity to the husbands of the highest world have come to light in the imagination of Alexey Alexandrovich.
"Daryalov, Poltava, Prince of Karibanov, Count Pascudine, Drum...
Yeah, and Drama... such an honest, good man...
Semenov, Chagin, Sigonin, remembered Aleksey Alexandrovich. 'Let's say some unreasonable Ridicule falls on these people, but I've never seen anything but misery in it, and I've always sympathized with it,' said Alexandrovich to himself, though it wasn't true, and he never sympathized with this kind of misery, and the more he appreciated himself, the more often there were examples of wives cheating on his husbands.
"It's a disaster that can befall anyone. And that disaster struck me.
It is only a matter of how best to overcome this situation."
And he went over the details of how people were acting in the same position as him.
"Daryalov fought on a duel..."
When he was a young man, the duel was particularly attracted to the thoughts of Alexey Alexandrovich precisely because he was physically shy and knew it well.
Alexey Alexandrovich could not think without horror of a gun, a pointed gun, and had never used any weapon in his life.
This horror of the cold often forced him to think about the duel and to try himself on a situation in which he had to put his life in danger.
Having achieved success and a firm standing in life, he long forgot that feeling; but the habit of feeling took on its own, and fear for its cowardice, and now turned out to be so strong that he thought and caressed about the duel for a long time and from all sides, even though he knew that he would never fight in any way.
"There is no doubt that our society is still so wild (not that in England) that so many -- and among these many were those whose views were particularly dear to Alexi Alexandrovich -- will look at the duel from the good side; but what will be the result?
Let's just say I call the duel,' he went on and on and on and on, and now he's going to spend the night that he's gonna spend after the call, and the gun he's been pointed at, he shudders and realizes he's never gonna do it,' and I'm gonna call him to a duel.
Let's say I'm being trained,' he kept thinking, 'I'm gonna shake the gasht,' he said to himself, closing his eyes, 'and it turns out that I killed him,' he said to himself, and shook his head to drive away these stupid thoughts. 'What is the point of killing a man to determine his relationship with a criminal wife and son?'
Just like I have to decide what I have to do with her.
But what is more likely and certainly will be -- I will be killed or wounded.
I, an innocent man, a victim -- killed or wounded.
Even more pointless.
But it's not enough; the challenge to duel on my part will be unfair.
Don't I know first that my friends will never let me into a duel -- that they won't allow the life of a stateman, the right person in Russia, to be put in danger?
What's gonna happen?
It's gonna be that, knowing ahead that it's never gonna come to any danger, I just wanted to give myself this challenge some false glitter.
It's not fair, it's false, it's the deception of others and myself.
The duel is incredible, and no one expects it from me.
My goal is to ensure that I have the reputation I need for the smooth continuation of my activities."
His work, which had previously been of great importance to him in the eyes of Alexey Alexandrovich, now seemed to him to be particularly significant.
After discussing and rejecting the duel, he turned to divorce, another exit chosen by some of the husbands he remembered.
By recaptured all the known divorce cases (there were many in the highest, well - known society), he did not find any where the purpose of the divorce was the one he had in mind.
In all of these cases, the husband gave up or sold the wrong wife, and the party who was not entitled to marry was the one who entered into a false, supposedly legal relationship with the new spouse for the fault.
In his own case, Alexanderovich saw that it was impossible to achieve a legal divorce, that is, a divorce where the guilty wife would only be rejected.
He had seen that the difficult living conditions in which he was living had prevented the harsh evidence required by law to prove his wife &apos; s crime; he had seen that the known sophistication of that life had prevented the use of such evidence, had it been, that the use of such evidence would have dropped him in public opinion more than hers.
A divorce attempt could only lead to a scandalous process that would be a find for enemies, a slander, a humiliation of his high position in the light.
The main objective, which is to determine the situation of the least disorder, has not been achieved through divorce.
Moreover, in divorce, even in an attempt to divorce, it was obvious that the wife broke up with her husband and connected with her lover.
And in Alexey Alexandrovich &apos; s soul, despite what he now thought was a contemptible indifference to her wife, there was a feeling for her that she did not want to be able to associate freely with Vronski so that her crime would benefit her.
One thought that was so irritating to Alexey Alexandrovich that, only when he saw it, he bolted from the inside pain and climbed up and changed the space in the carriage, and long after that frowned upon, he wrapped his filthy and bony feet with a fluffy plaster.
"In addition to the formal divorce, it was possible to do the same thing as the Karibanov, Pasquadine and this good Drum, that is, to separate from his wife," he continued to think, calmed down; but this measure also represented the same inconvenience of shame as in the divorce, and most importantly, it was, just like a formal divorce, that his wife threw into the arms of Vronski.
"No, it's impossible, it's impossible! 'Then, once again, when he turned over his veil, he spoke out loudly.' 'I can't be unhappy, but neither can she and he be happy.'
The feeling of jealousy that tormented him at the time of the unknown went away the minute his wife's words drew his tooth out with pain.
But that feeling was replaced by a desire not only that she should not triumph but that she should be rewarded for her crime.
He did not acknowledge that feeling, but deep down, he wanted her to suffer for violating his peace and honour.
And by rediscovering the conditions of the duel, the divorce, the separation and the rejection of them, he found that the only way out was to keep it to himself, by keeping it hidden from the light and by using all the dependent measures to stop the communication and, above all -- in which he did not admit to himself -- to punish it.
"I must declare my decision that, after considering the difficult situation she has placed her family in, all the other exits will be worse for both sides than the external status quo, and that I agree to respect it, but under strict conditions of my will to do so, i.e. to end a relationship with a lover." In support of this decision, when it was finally made, Alexei Alexandrovich came up with another important consideration.
"It is only with this decision that I do and according to religion," he said to himself, "but with this decision that I do not deny myself to a criminal wife, but I give her the opportunity to correct, and even, as hard as it may be for me, I devote a part of my strength to correcting and saving her."
Although he knew that he could have no moral influence over his wife, that nothing would come out of this attempt at correction except a lie; although he did not think once about seeking guidance in religion, now that his decision was consistent with what he thought was religion, this religious sanction of his decision gave him complete satisfaction in part.
He was happy to think that, even in such a vital work, no one would be able to say that he had not acted according to the rules of the religion that he had always held high among the general coolness and indifference.
In considering further details, he did not even see why his relationship with his wife could not remain the same as before.
There is no doubt that he will never be able to restore his respect to her; but there was and could not be any reason for him to disappoint his life and suffer because she was a bad and faithless wife.
"Yes, all the time will pass, and the relationship will be restored," he said to himself, "that is to say, it will be restored to such an extent that I will not feel disorder in the course of my life.
She shouldn't be happy, but it's not my fault, so I can't be unhappy."
As he approached Petersburg, he had not only given up on the decision, but had also written a letter in his head, which he would write to his wife.
When he entered Switzerland, he looked at letters and papers from the Ministry and told him to bring them into the office.
'To postpone and not accept anyone,' he said to the doorman, with some pleasure, as a sign of his good spirit, striking the word 'not to accept'.
In Alexi Alexandrovich's office, he went on two occasions and stopped at a huge desk, on which six candles had already been lit in front of the valet, sliced his fingers and sat down, dealing with the writing supplies.
Put his elbows on the table, he leaned his head, thought from a moment to a moment, and began writing without stopping for a second.
He wrote without addressing her and in French, using the term "you", which does not have the character of coldness it has in Russian.
"In our last conversation, I expressed to you my intention to communicate my decision on the subject of this conversation.
Having considered everything carefully, I now write with a view to fulfilling that promise.
My decision is that whatever your actions may be, I do not consider myself entitled to sever the bonds that we are bound by from above.
The family cannot be destroyed by whimsy, arbitrary, or even by the crime of one of the spouses, and our lives must go as they did before.
It's necessary for me, for you, for our son.
I am quite sure that you have repented and repented of what is the basis of this letter, and that you will assist me in pulling out the root cause of our discord and forgetting what happened.
Otherwise, you can assume what is expected of you and your son.
I'm hoping to talk about all this in more detail on a personal date.
Since the season is over, I would ask you to move to Petersburg as soon as possible, not later than Tuesday.
All necessary orders for your move will be made.
Please note that I attach particular importance to the execution of this request.
A. Karenin
"S. At the same time, the letter contains money that may be needed for your expenses."
He read the letter and was pleased with it, especially the fact that he remembered the money; there was neither a cruel word nor reproach, nor condescending.
Most importantly, there was a golden bridge to return.
By putting the letter together and ironing it with a large, massive knife of ivory and putting it in an envelope with money, he had the pleasure, which was always aroused in it by the treatment of his well - designed writing supplies, to call.
'Tell the courier to deliver Anna Arkadievna to the road tomorrow,' he said, and stood up.
'Listen, Your Excellency; will you have tea in your office?'
Alexey Alexandrovich told me to put tea in the office and, playing with a massive knife, went to the chair, which had a lamp and a French book started on eugubic inscriptions.
There was an oval hanging over the chair, in a gold frame, beautifully painted by Anna's famous painter. Alexei Alexandrovich looked at him.
The impermeable eyes scoffed and looked down on him like that last night's explanation. Indescribably and intrigued by the view made by the artist of the black lace on his head, the black hair, and the white beautiful hand with the nameless finger covered with the rings.
When he looked at the portrait, he shuddered so that his lips shook and sounded "brre" and turned away.
As soon as he sat in the chair, he opened the book.
He tried to read, but he could not restore to himself a very living interest in eugubic inscriptions.
He looked into the book and thought about something else.
He was not thinking of his wife, but of one recent complication in his public activities, which at that time was the main interest of his service.
He felt that he was deeper than ever into this complication and that he was born in his head -- he could say without self-inflicted self-inflicted -- a fundamental thought that had to sort this whole thing out, raise him in his service career, drop his enemies and, therefore, bring the greatest benefit to the State.
As soon as the man set the tea, he left the room, he got up and went to the desk.
By moving the portfolio of current cases in the middle, he took the pencil out of the counter with a slight smile of smugness and dived into reading the complex case he had requested before the upcoming complication. It was a complication.
Alexey Alexandrovich's specialty, as a public man, was, to him alone, a characteristic characteristic of every protruding official, one who, along with his obstinate ambition, restraint, honesty and self-confidence, made his career, was neglect of paper officiality, reduction of correspondence, directness to a living cause and economy as far as possible.
It happened that on 2 June a case was brought before the famous commission concerning the irrigation of the Zaray Obernia fields, located at the Ministry of Alexei Alexandrovich, which provided a stark example of the infertility of expenses and the paper-based attitude to the case.
Alexei Alexandrovich knew it was fair.
The case of the irrigation of the Zaray Obernia fields was initiated by the predecessor of the predecessor, Alexei Alexandrovich.
Indeed, the case was spent and spent a great deal of money and completely ineffective, and the whole case obviously had nothing to do with it.
When he took office, he immediately realized it and wanted to put his hands on the case; but at first, when he felt unsatisfied, he knew that it affected too much interest and was unreasonable; and then, after doing other things, he simply forgot the case.
It, like all things, was on its own, by the power of inertia.
(A lot of people were feeding on this case, especially one very moral and musical family: all daughters were playing string instruments.
Alexei Alexandrovich knew the family and was the father of one of the older daughters.)
It was not fair, according to Alexey Alexandrovich, to raise this case by a hostile ministry, because there have been other cases in every ministry that no one has, according to known official decency, raised.
Now, if he had already been left with this glove, he bravely lifted it up and demanded the appointment of a special commission to study and verify the works of the Zaray Obernia irrigation commission; however, he had already given no further descent to those gentlemen.
He also requested the appointment of a special commission in the case concerning the organization of aliens.
The case of the alien device was accidentally raised in the committee on 2 June, and with energy was supported by Alexey Alexandrovich as an urgent matter due to the unfortunate condition of the alien.
In the committee, this led to a debate among several ministries.
The Ministry, hostile to Alexei Alexandrovich, had proved that the situation of foreigners had been very flowering and that the proposed restructuring could destroy their prosperity, and if anything was bad, it could only result from the Ministry &apos; s failure to comply with the legal measures prescribed by the law.
Now Alexei Alexandrovich intended to demand: first, that a new commission be set up to examine on the ground the condition of aliens; secondly, if it turns out that the situation of foreigners is indeed the same as that of the official data in the hands of the committee, that another, new scientific commission be appointed to study the reasons for this unhappiness of foreigners in terms of: (a) political, (b) administrative, (c) economic, (g) ethnography, (d) material and (e) religious; thirdly, that information be requested from the hostile ministry on the measures taken by that Ministry over the past decade to prevent the unfavourable conditions in which foreigners are currently present; and fourthly, that an explanation be requested from the Ministry as to why it, as can be seen from the information provided to the committee for NN 17015 and 18308, of 5 December 1863 and 7 June 1864, was directly contrary to the meaning of the indigenous and organic law, i.e., art. 18, and the note to article 36.
The paint of the recovery covered Alexei Alexandrovich's face when he quickly wrote his notes of these thoughts.
After writing a piece of paper, he got up, called and gave a note to the governor of the office to deliver him the necessary papers.
When he stood up and walked through the room, he looked at the portrait again, frowned and smiled in contempt.
After reading the book on eugubic inscriptions and resuming his interest in them, he went to bed at 11 o'clock, and when he was lying in bed and remembered what had happened to his wife, it was no longer so dark.
Although Anna was persistent and bitterly opposed when he told her that her situation was impossible and urged her to open up all things to her husband, deep down in her heart she thought her position was false, dishonest, and with all her soul she wanted to change it.
When she returned from a race with her husband, she expressed everything to him at a time of excitement; despite the pain she had experienced, she was pleased with it.
After her husband left her, she told herself that she was happy that everything would be decided now, and at least there would be no lies and deception.
She felt beyond any doubt that her situation would now be determined forever.
It may be bad, it's a new position, but it's definitely gonna be, it's not gonna be vague and it's not gonna lie.
The pain she had caused herself and her husband by saying those words would now be rewarded by the fact that everything would be determined, she thought.
On the same evening, she saw him, but did not tell him what had happened between her and her husband, although in order for the situation to be determined, she had to tell him.
When she woke up another morning, the first thing she saw was the words she said to her husband, and those words seemed so awful to her that she could not understand now how she could decide to say those strange rude words, and could not imagine what would come out of it.
But the words were spoken, and Alexis Alexandrovich left without saying anything.
"I saw Vronski and I didn't tell him.
Even the minute he left, I wanted to turn him back and tell him, but I did, because it was weird why I didn't tell him at the first minute.
Why didn't I want to tell him?"
And in response to that question, the hot paint of shame spilled over her face.
She understood what kept her from doing it; she realized that she was ashamed.
Her situation, which seemed clear last night, suddenly seemed to her now not only unexplained, but inexhaustible.
She was afraid of the shame she had never thought of before.
When she thought about what her husband would do, she had the worst thoughts.
It occurred to her that the manager was about to come to kick her out of the house, that her shame would be announced to the world.
She asked herself where she was going -- when she was out of the house, and she didn't find an answer.
When she thought of him, she felt that he didn't like her, that he was starting to feel bad about her, that she couldn't offer herself to him, and that she felt hostile to him for it.
She felt that the words she had said to her husband, which she constantly repeated in her imagination, that she had spoken to all of them, and that everyone had heard them.
She couldn't face the people she lived with.
She couldn't decide to call a girl and even less go downstairs and see her son and a governess.
A girl who had long listened to her door walked into her room herself.
Anna looked into her eyes and blushed in fear.
The girl apologized for coming in, saying she thought she had been called.
She brought a dress and a note.
The note was from Betsy. Betsy reminded her that Lisa Merkalov and Baroness Scholtz would be visiting her this morning with their fans, Kaluga and old Stromov, for a party of croquet.
"Come at least to see how you study morals. I'm waiting for you," she came.
Anna read the note and took a hard breath.
'Nothing, nothing is needed,' she said to Annushka, who had moved the flasks and brushes on the bathroom table. 'Come on, I'll get dressed and get out.'
It's okay, it's okay.
Annushka came out, but Anna didn't dress, but sat in the same position, lowering her head and hands, and sometimes shivered the whole body, wanting to do some gesture, say something, and die again.
She kept saying, "Oh, my God!
Oh, my God!"
But neither "god" nor "my" made any sense to her.
The thought of seeking help in religion was for her, despite the fact that she had never doubted the religion in which she had been raised, as strange as seeking help from Alexey Alexandrovich himself.
She knew ahead that the help of religion was possible only under the condition of abdicating the whole meaning of life to her.
Not only was it hard for her, but she began to develop fear in the face of a new, never-tested state of mind.
She felt that everything in her soul began to double, as objects sometimes doubled in tired eyes.
She sometimes didn't know what she was afraid of, what she wanted.
Whether she fears, or desires what is, or what is, and what she wants, she did not know.
"Oh, what am I doing?" 'She said to herself, suddenly feeling pain on both sides of her head.
When she came to her senses, she saw that she held her hair by both hands near the temples and squeezed them.
She jumped up and started walking.
'Coffee is ready, and mama and Serezia are waiting,' said Annushka, returning again and again to get Anna in the same position.
'Serges?
What is Serezha? 'When she came to life, she asked Anna, remembering her son's existence for the first time in the morning.
'He blamed, I think,' replied, smiling, Annushka.
'How did you do it?'
'The Peaches were lying in the coal room; so it seems they ate a little bit by themselves.'
The reminder of her son suddenly brought Anna out of the desperate situation she was in.
She remembered the partially sincere, though exaggerated, role of a mother living for her son, which she had taken over in recent years, and was happy to feel that in the state in which she had been, she had a power independent of the situation in which she would become husband and wife.
That power was a son.
Whatever her situation, she cannot leave her son.
Let her husband disgrace her and cast her out, let him cool her down, and continue to lead her independent life (again she thought of him with bile and reproach), she cannot leave her son. She has a purpose for life.
And she has to act, act to ensure that this is the situation with her son, so that they don't take him away from her.
Even sooner, we must act as soon as possible before he's taken away from her.
We should get our son and leave. Here's one thing she needs to do now.
She needed to calm down and get out of this painful situation. The thought of a direct case involving her son, of going away with him now, gave her that comfort.
She quickly dressed, went downstairs and walked into the living room, where, as usual, she was waiting for her coffee and Sereza with a governess.
Serezha, all white, stood by the table under the mirror and, bent his back and head, expressing the intense attention she knew in it and to whom he looked like his father, did something to the flowers he brought.
The governess was particularly strict.
Serezha piercingly, as it was often with him, cried out, "Ah, Mother!" &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; and &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; and &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; and &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt
The governess, when she said hello, long and certain, began to tell the misdeeds of Serezia, but Anna did not listen to her; she wondered if she would take her with her.
"No, I won't," she decided. 'I will leave alone with my son.'
'Yes, it is very bad,' said Anna, and when she took her son by the shoulder, not by the hard but by the shy look of the embarrassing and distraught boy, she looked at him and kissed him. 'Leave him with me,' she said to the surprised governess and sat down at the coffee table without letting out her son's hands.
'Mom!
I... I... didn't...' he said, trying to understand by her expression what he expected for a peach.
'Serezha,' she said, as soon as the governess left the room, 'it is bad, but you won't do it anymore?
Do you love me?
She felt tears in her eyes. "Can I not love him? 'She said to herself, looking at his frightened and happy look together. 'And will he be with his father to execute me?'
Will he not pity me?" Tears were already running through her face, and to cover them up, she stood up and almost ran out on the terrace.
After the stormy rains of recent days, the weather was cold, clear. With the bright sun squashing through the washed leaves, it was cold in the air.
She also shuddered from the cold and from the inner horror, with new power covering her in the clear air.
'Come, come to Mariette,' she said to Serezha, who had followed her, and started walking on the straw carpet of the terrace.
"Will they not forgive me, and see how this could not have been different?" 'She said to herself.
When she stopped and looked at the wind - swirling vertebrates of the wasp with their leaves washed clean, brightly shining in the cold sun, she realized that they would not forgive, that everyone and everyone to her would now be ruthless, like the sky, like this green. And again, she felt that her soul was beginning to double.
"Don't, don't think," she said to herself. 'We have to pack.'
Where?
When?
Who do you want me to bring?
Yeah, Moscow, on the evening train. Annushka and Serezha, and only the most basic things.
But first we have to write to both of them."
She quickly went into the house, into her office, sat down at the table and wrote to her husband:
"After what happened, I can't stay in your house anymore.
I'm leaving and taking my son with me.
I don't know the laws, so I don't know which parent my son should be with; but I take him with me, because I can't live without him.
Be generous and leave him to me."
So far, she has written quickly and naturally, but the appeal to his generosity, which she did not recognize in him, and the need to conclude a letter with something touching, has stopped her.
"I can't talk about my guilt and my remorse because..."
Again, she stopped without finding a connection in her mind.
'No,' she said to herself, 'nothing is necessary,' and by tearing up the letter, rewriting it, deleting the reference to generosity, and sealed it.
Another letter should've been written to Wronsky. "I declared my husband," she wrote and sat there for a long time, unable to write any further.
It was so rude, so unwed.
"And then, what can I write to him?" 'She said to herself.
Again, the paint of shame covered her face, remembered his calm, and a feeling of displeasure towards him caused her to rip into small pieces a piece of paper with a written phrase.
"Nothing is necessary," she said to herself, and she folded the bouvar, went upstairs, told the governess and the people that she was going to Moscow today, and immediately started packing.
There were gardeners, gardeners, and footmen all over the dormitories, carrying out their belongings.
The wardrobes and comedies were opened; twice they ran to a shop for bats; and there was paper on the floor.
Two chests, bags and tied patches were removed to the front.
The carriage and two drivers stood by the porch.
Anna, forgetting the work of putting an internal alarm, lay her travel bag in front of the desk in her office when Annushka drew her attention to the knock of the approaching crew.
Anna looked out the window and saw Alexey Alexandrovich at the porch, who called at the front door.
'Come find out what's going on,' she said, and with calm willingness to do all things, folding her hands on her knees, sat down on the chair.
Lakey brought a thick bag written by Alexei Alexandrovich's hand.
'The courier has been ordered to bring the answer,' he said.
'All right,' she said, and as soon as the man came out, she ripped the letter with her shaking fingers.
A pack of undeployed thugs fell out of him.
She released the letter and started reading from the end.
"I have made arrangements for the move, I attribute the importance of fulfilling my request," she read.
She ran further, back, read everything, and read the letter all over again.
When she came, she felt that she was cold and that she had been struck by such a terrible misfortune as she did not expect.
She repented this morning about what she had said to her husband, and she only wanted one thing to be said, as if it hadn't been said. This letter acknowledged the unsaid words and gave her what she wanted.
"Right! Right! 'She has spoken.' 'Of course, he's always right, he's a Christian, he's generous!
Yeah, low, nasty man!
And none but me will understand it, nor will he understand it; and I cannot interpret it.
They say: a religious, moral, honest, intelligent man; but they do not see what I have seen.
They don't know how he choked my life for eight years, strangled everything that was alive in me, that he never once thought that I was a living woman who needed love.
They don't know how every step of the way he insulted me and stayed happy with himself.
Haven't I tried my best to find an excuse for my life?
Did I not try to love him, to love my son when it was no longer possible to love my husband?
But it's time I realized that I can't fool myself anymore, that I'm alive, that it's not my fault, that God made me so that I need to love and live.
And now what?
He'd kill me, he'd kill him, I'd bear it, I'd forgive everything, but no, he...
"How did I not guess what he would do?
He will do what is inherent in his low character.
He's gonna be right, and I'm gonna get killed even worse... "You can imagine what's coming for you and your son," she remembered the words in the letter.
"It's a threat that he'll take his son, and it's probably possible by their stupid law.
But don't I know why he's saying this?
He also doesn't believe in my love for my son or despises (as he has always mocked), despises my feeling, but he knows that I will not abandon my son, can't abandon my son, that without a son there can be no life for me even with someone I love, but that by leaving my son and running away from him, I will act like the most disgraceful, filthy woman -- he knows and knows that I will not be able to do it."
"Our life must go as before," she remembered another phrase of the letter.
"This life has been painful before, it's been awful lately. What's it gonna be now?
He knows all this, knows that I can't regret that I breathe, that I love, that he knows that there will be nothing but lies and deception; but he must continue to torment me.
I know him, I know he's like a fish in the water, swimming and enjoying lying.
But no, I will not give him this pleasure. I will tear apart his web of lies in which he wants to confuse me. Let it be what it is.
It's better than lying and cheating."
"But how?
Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
Was a woman ever as unhappy as I am?"
'No, I will tear, I will tear!' she cried, jumping and holding her tears.
And she went to the desk to write him another letter. But she already felt in her heart that she would not be able to tear anything apart, nor would she be able to get out of this old position, no matter how false or dishonest it may be.
She sat down at the desk, but instead of writing, putting her hands on the table, she put her head on them, and she cried, sighing and shaking with all her breasts, as the children cry.
She cried that her dream of understanding, of defining her position, had been destroyed forever.
She knew ahead that everything would stay the same, and much worse than it was.
She felt that the situation in the light she had enjoyed, which she felt so insignificant this morning, that the situation was dear to her, that she would not be able to replace him with the disgraceful position of a woman who had abandoned her husband and son and had joined her lover; that no matter how hard she tried, she would not be stronger than herself.
She will never experience the freedom of love, but will forever remain a criminal wife, under the threat of a minute's reproof, deceiving her husband for a disgraceful bond with a stranger, independent, with whom she cannot live one's life alone.
She knew it would be, and yet it was so awful that she couldn't even imagine how it would end.
And she cried, and she wouldn't stop crying like the children who had been punished.
The footman's footsteps made her wake up, and by hiding her face from him, she pretended to write.
'The courier asks for an answer,' reported the footman.
'The answer?'
Yes,' said Anna, 'Let him wait. I'll call you.
"What can I write? 'I thought she did.' 'What can I decide alone?
What do I know?
What do I want?
What do I love?"
Again, she felt that she was beginning to feel two in the shower. She was scared of that feeling again and grasped the first excuse she had given her for an activity that could distract her from thinking about herself.
"I have to see Alexei (that's what she's been thinking about), he's the only one who can tell me what I have to do.
I will go to Betsy; perhaps I will see him there,' she said to herself, completely forgetting that yesterday, when she told him she wouldn't go to Princess Tverska, he said that that's why he wouldn't go either.
She came up to the table, wrote to her husband, "I got your letter. "A." --and when she called, she gave it to the footman.
'We are not going,' she said to Annushka who entered.
'Are we not going at all?'
'No, don't set it up until tomorrow, and leave the carriage.'
I'm going to the Princess's.
'What dress shall I make?'
The croquet party, to which Princess Tverskaya invited Anna, was to be composed of two ladies with their fans.
The two ladies were the main representatives of the elected new Peterburger mug, called impersonating a copy of something, les sept merveilles du monde.
These ladies belonged to a mug, though a higher one, but totally hostile to the one that Anna visited.
In addition, old Stremov, one of Petersburg's influential people, a fan of Lisa Merkalova, was an enemy of Alexei Alexandrovich.
For all these reasons, Anna did not want to go, and her refusal was covered by the hints of a note by Princess Tverska.
Now Anna wanted to go, in the hope of seeing Vronsky.
Anna came to see Princess Tverska before the other guests.
While she was walking in, Vronsky's footman with scrubbed binbardes, similar to the Juncker cameras, came in, too.
He stopped by the door and took off his hat and missed it.
Anna recognized him and all she remembered was that he said he wasn't coming yesterday.
He probably sent a note about it.
She heard taking off the upper dress in the front, like a footman who spoke even r, like a camera-junker, said "from the Count of the Princess" and delivered a note.
She wanted to know where his barn was. She wanted to go back and send him a letter to come to her, or go to him.
But neither of them could be done: calls had already been heard about her coming, and Princess Tversky's lashes were already in the middle of turning at the open door, waiting for her to enter the inner rooms.
'The Princess is in the garden to report.'
Would you like to come to the garden? 'Reported another footman in the other room.
The situation of indecision, lack of clarity was the same as at home; even worse, because nothing could be done, it could not have been seen, but had to remain here in a strange and so contrary mood of society; but she was in a toilet that she knew she was going to see her; she was not alone, there was this usual celebration of idleness around her, and she was easier than at home; she shouldn't have come up with what to do.
Everything was done on its own.
When she met Betsy in white, which struck her with her elegance, the toilet, Anna smiled at her as usual.
Princess Tversky went with Tushkevich and a relative of the young lady, to the great happiness of the provincial parents who spent the summer with the famous Princess.
Perhaps there was something special about Anna because Betsy immediately noticed it.
'I didn't sleep well,' said Anna, looking at the footman who was coming to meet them and, for her sake, carrying a note from Wronski.
'How glad I am that you have come,' said Betsy. 'I am tired and just wanted to have a cup of tea while they arrive. And you would go,' she turned to Tuskewich,' and Mary would have tried the croquet band where they cut it. We'd love to talk to you for tea, we'll have a cosy chat, wouldn't we? 'She turned to Anna with a smile, shaking her umbrella arm.
'All the more so since I can't stay long with you, I need to see the old Void.' I have promised for a hundred years,' said Anna, who has made lying, alien to her nature, not only simple and natural in society, but has even enjoyed it.
Why she said that, which she didn't think in a second, she couldn't explain.
She said it out of her mind that since Wronsky wouldn't be there, she had to keep her freedom and try to see him sometime.
But why did she say exactly about the old lady Vreda she needed, like many others, wouldn't be able to explain, and yet, as it turned out, she couldn't come up with anything better when she came up with the most ingenious means to date Wronski.
'No, I will not let you in for anything,' replied Betsy, looking carefully into Anna's face. 'Really, I would be offended if I didn't love you.
I'm sure you're afraid that my society might compromise you.
Please give us a cup of tea in the small living room,' she said, as always with eyes on the footman.
After taking a note from him, she read it. 'Alexei made a false jump for us,' she said in French, 'he writes that it can't be,' she added in such a natural, simple tone as she could never think of to have any other meaning for Anna as a croquet player.
Anna knew Betsy knew everything, but listening to her talk about Vronsk in front of her, she always made sure for a minute that she didn't know anything.
'Ah! 'How can your society compromise anyone?' said Anna with indifference, as little interest in it, and kept smiling: 'How can your society compromise anyone? 'This game, in words, is a cover-up, as it was for all women, had great beauty for Anna.
And not the need to hide, not the purpose for which it was hidden, but the very process of concealment attracted her. 'I can't be more Catholic than Dad,' she said. 'Stremov and Lisa Merkalov are the cream of society.
Then they were accepted everywhere, and I -- she particularly hit me -- was never hard and impatient. I just don't have time.
'No, you don't want to date Stremov, perhaps?
Let him and Alexei Alexandrovich break the spears on the committee, it's none of our business.
But in light of that, he's the kindest man I know, a passionate croquet player.
You'll see.
And despite his funny position as an old man in love with Lisa, you have to see him get out of this ridiculous position!
He's very nice.
You don't know Safo Stoltz?
It's a new, brand-new tone.
Betsy was saying all this, and yet, by the funny, smart look, her Anna felt that she understood part of her situation and was up to something.
They were in a small office.
'But you have to write to Alexei,' and Betsy sat down at the table, wrote some lines, put them in the envelope. 'I write for him to come to lunch.
I've got one lady left without a man by lunch.
See if it's convincing?
I'm sorry, I'll leave you to it for a minute.
Please seal and send,' she said from the door, 'and I have orders to make.
Never thinking for a minute, Anna sat down with Betsy's letter to the table, and without reading, she said, "I need to see you.
Come to the garden of Vreda.
I'll be there at 6:00."
She sealed it, and Betsy came back and gave her the letter.
Indeed, the tea that was brought to them on the tray table in the cool little living room between the two women became the cosy chat that Princess Tversky promised before the guests arrived.
They were overthinking those they expected, and the conversation stopped on Lisa Merkalova.
'She is very nice and I have always been pretty,' said Anna.
'You must love her. She's delusional.
Yesterday she came to me after the races and was desperate she didn't catch you.
She says you're the real hero of a novel and that if she were a man, she would have done a thousand stupid things for you.
Stremov tells her she's already making them.
'But please tell me, I could never understand,' said Anna, 'with a few words of silence and a tone that clearly showed that she was not doing a idle question, but that what she asked was more important to her than it should be. 'Please tell me, what is her attitude toward Prince Kaluga, the so-called Mischka?'
I haven't met them much.
What is this?
Betsy smiled with her eyes and looked closely at Anna.
'New manners,' she said. 'They all chose this manner.
They threw the caps at the mills.
But there's a way and a way to get rid of them.
'Yes, but what does she have to do with Kaluga?
Betsy was suddenly having fun and laughed, which rarely happened to her.
'You're the one who's taking over Princess Soft's area.
It's a question of a terrible child -- and Betty seemed to want to, but couldn't resist, and came up with the contagious laughter that rarely laughed. 'We have to ask them,' she said through the tears of laughter.
'No, you're laughing,' said Anna, who was also involuntarily infected with laughter, 'but I could never understand.
I don't understand the role of husband here.
'The husband?'
Lisa Merkalova's husband carries patches behind her and is always ready for service.
And what's next, really, no one wants to know.
You know, in a good society, they don't talk or even think about some of the details of the toilet.
So is this.
'Are you going to be at Rolandaki's party? 'I asked Anna to change the conversation.'
'I don't think so,' replied Betsy and, without looking at her friend, carefully poured small, transparent cups of sweet tea.
When she moved the cup to Anna, she took out the braid and put it in a silver pen, and she smoked it.
'You see, I am in a happy state,' she began without laughing, taking a cup into her hand. 'I understand you and I understand Lisa.
Lisa is one of those naive natures that, like children, doesn't understand what's good and what's wrong.
At least she didn't understand when she was very young.
And now she knows that this misunderstanding is coming to her.
Now maybe she doesn't understand on purpose,' said Betsy with a subtle smile. 'But it still suits her.
You see, you can look at the same thing in a tragic way and make it a torture and look simple and even fun.
Maybe you tend to look at things too tragic.
'How much I would like to know others as I know myself,' said Anna seriously and thoughtfully. 'I am worse than others, or better?' I think it's worse. 'A terrible child, a terrible child,' Betsy repeated. 'But here they are.
The steps and the male voice were heard, then the woman's voice and laughter, and then the expected guests came in: Safo Stoltz, and the radiant young man, the so - called Vaska.
He was apparently fed with blood beef, truffles, and bourgon.
She bowed to the ladies and looked at them, but only for one second.
He walked after Safo into the living room and followed her in the living room, as if he had been tied to her, and kept his eyes glittering, as if he wanted to eat her.
Safo Stoltz was a blonde with black eyes.
She walked in with little, bastards on the cool heels of shoes, steps, and she shook the ladies' hands like a man.
Anna has never met this new celebrity before and was struck by both her beauty and the extremeness to which her toilet was brought and the courage of her manners.
On her head, her hair and other people's tender-golden hair was made with a hairbrush such that her head equalled the size of a slender convex and was very open in front of the bra.
The sharpness ahead was such that each movement was marked from under the dress by the shape of the knees and the upper part of the leg, and the question of where the present, small and thin, so exposed from the top and so hidden from the rear and from the bottom of the body, really ended up at the bottom of that winding mountain.
Betsy rushed to introduce her to Anna.
'You can imagine we almost smashed two soldiers,' she immediately began to tell, winking, smiling and back, pulling away her tail, which she immediately pushed too far in one direction. 'I was on my way with Vashka...'
Oh, yeah, you don't know each other. 'And when she called his name, she introduced the young man and, blushing, laughed at her mistake, i.e. that she called him a stranger.
She bowed to Anna again, but she didn't say anything.
He turned to Safo: &lt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Pari is lost. &gt;&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; We've arrived before.
Pay up,' he said, smiling.
Sapho laughed even more fun.
'Not now,' she said.
'Never mind, I'll get it after.'
'All right, all right.
Oh, yes! 'And suddenly she turned to the mistress,' I was good...
I forgot...
I brought you a guest...
There he is...
The unexpected young guest Safo brought, whom she forgot, was, however, such an important guest that, despite his youth, both ladies stood up to meet him.
It was a new fan of Safo. He's like Vaska now, he's been chasing her.
Soon the Prince of Kaluga and Lisa Merkalov arrived with Stremov.
Lisa Merkalov was a skinny brunette with an eastern lazy face and adorable, unexplained, as everyone said.
The nature of her dark toilet (Anna immediately noticed and appreciated this) was perfectly consistent with her beauty.
As cool and picky as Safo was, Lisa was so soft and loose.
But Lisa, Anna's taste, was much more attractive. Betsy told Anna about her that she had taken on the tone of an unknown child, but when Anna saw her, she felt that it wasn't true.
She was definitely an ignorant, spoiled, but sweet, unrequited woman.
It's true that her tone was the same as Safo's tone, just like Safo's, she was followed like she was sewn up, her eyes were eaten by two fans, one young other old man; but there was something in it that was higher than what was around her -- there was a glitter of real diamond water in the glass. That glitter glowed out of her lovely, truly unexplained eyes.
Tired and together, the passionate view of these close - circleed eyes was striking by their perfect sincerity.
Looking into these eyes, it seemed to everyone that he recognized it all and that he could not help but love it. When Anna saw her, her whole face suddenly appeared with a happy smile.
'Ah, how glad I am to see you!' she said, approaching her. 'I just wanted to get to you yesterday at the races, and you left.' I really wanted to see you yesterday. Wasn't that awful? 'She said, looking at Anna with her eyes, which seemed to open her whole soul.'
'Yes, I never expected it to be so exciting,' said Anna, red.
Society rose up at that time to go to the garden.
'I will not go,' said Lisa, smiling and sitting with Anna. 'Aren't you going, too? I don't know what it's like to play croquet!
'No, I love you,' said Anna.
'This is how you do that you're not bored?
If you look at you, it's fun.
You live and I miss you.
'How do you miss me?
You are the most fun society in Petersburg,' said Anna.
'Maybe those who are not our society are even more bored; but we must not be having fun, but we are terribly, terribly bored.
Safo went to the garden with two young men.
Betsy and Stremov stayed for tea.
'Are you bored?' 'Betsy said. 'Safo says they were having a lot of fun at your place yesterday.
'Oh, that was so sad! 'Lisa Merkalov said.' 'We went all the way to me after the races.'
And they're all the same, and they're the same!
It's all the same.
We've been on the couch all night.
What's so funny?
No, how do you make sure you don't get bored? 'She turned to Anna again. 'It is worth looking at you, and you see -- here is a woman who may be happy, unhappy, but not bored.
Can you teach me how you do it? 'I'm not doing anything,' replied Anna, blushing at these obsessions.
'This is the best manner,' interfered with Stremov's conversation.
Stremov was a man in his 50s, half-sediment, still fresh, very ugly, but with a characteristic and intelligent face.
Lisa Merkalov was his wife's niece, and he spent all his spare hours with her.
When he met Anna Karenina, Alexey Alexandrovich's enemy, as a secular and intelligent man, tried to be with her, the wife of his enemy, especially kind. 'No way,' he picked up, smiling thinly -- that's the best tool.
I have told you a long time ago,' he turned to Lisa Merkalova, 'that, in order not to be bored, you must not think that you will be bored. It's like you don't have to be afraid you won't fall asleep if you're afraid of insomnia.
That's what Anna Arkadievna told you.
'I would be very happy to say it, because it is not only clever, it is true,' said Anna, smiling.
'No, you tell me, why can't you sleep and not be bored?
'To sleep, you have to work, and to have fun, you have to work too.
'Why would I work when no one wants my job?'
And I don't know how to pretend on purpose and I don't want to.
'You are incorrigible,' said Stremov, without looking at her, and turned again to Anna.
Rarely meeting Anna, he could not say anything to her other than pranks, but he spoke of these vile things, about when she moved to Petersburg, about the way Countess Lydia Ivanovna loved her -- an expression that showed that he truly wanted to be nice to her and show her respect and even more.
Tushkevich came in, announcing that the whole community was waiting for croquet players.
'No, don't go, please,' asked Lisa Merkalov, learning that Anna was leaving.
Stromov joined her.
'It is too much contrast,' he said, 'to go after this society to old lady Vreda.
And then it will be an occasion for her to be angry, and here you will only incite others, the very good and the opposite of feeling,' he said to her.
Anna was wondering for a minute.
The lazy speeches of this smart man, the naive, childish sympathy that Lisa Merkalov expressed to her, and all this familiar-light environment -- it was all so easy, and it was kind of hard to expect her to be indissoluble at a moment's notice, to stay, or to delay another minute's explanation.
But when she remembered that she was waiting for one house, if she did not make any decision, remembering this terrible gesture for her and remembering when she took both hands by the hair, she said goodbye and left.
In spite of his flimsy secular life there was a man who hated the mess.
While he was in the corps, he was humiliated when, confused, he asked for money and had never been in such a position since.
In order to conduct his business in an orderly manner at all times, he looked at the circumstances more often or less often, five times a year, and left alone and made all his affairs clear.
He called it counting, or faire la lissive.
After waking up late the day after the races, he took up his work without shaving or bathing, dressed in a den, and put money, bills, letters on the table.
Petritzka, knowing that he was angry when he woke up and saw a comrade at the desk, dressed quietly and went out without interrupting him.
Every person, knowing to the slightest detail the complexity of the conditions surrounding him, willingly assumes that the complexity of these conditions and the difficulty of understanding them is only his personal, accidental characteristic, and does not think that others are surrounded by the same complexity of their personal conditions as he himself.
That's what Wronsky seemed like.
And he thought, not without internal pride or justification, that anyone else would have long been confused and forced to do the wrong thing if he had been under the same difficult circumstances.
But he felt that it was now up to him to consider and understand his situation in order not to get confused.
The first thing to do, as the easiest thing to do, was do some money.
After writing his small handwriting on the letterbook all he had to do, he took stock and found that he owed 17,000 with the hundreds that he had thrown away for clarity.
After counting the money and the bank book, he found that he had a thousand and eight hundred rubles left, and no receipt was foreseen until New Year's.
After reading the list of debts, he rewritten it, dividing it into three classes.
The first category included debts that had to be paid now or, in any case, for which it was necessary to have ready-made money so that there could be no minutes of deceleration in the claim.
There were about 4,000 such debts: a thousand five hundred for a horse, and two thousand five hundred for a young comrade of Venevsky, who lost that money to a brother - in - law.
At that time he wanted to give the money (they were with him), but Venevsky and Yaszwin insisted that they would pay, not Wronsky, who wasn't playing.
All of this was fine, but he knew that in this filthy case, in which he only took part in what he had to say for Venevsky, he had to have those two thousand and five hundred in order to leave the fraudster and not talk to him any more.
So, in this first critical section, you should've had 4,000.
In Division Two, 8,000, there were less important debts. The debts were mainly from the horse stable, the oats and hay supplier, the Englishman, the shornician, etc.
These debts also had to be handed over to thousands of people in order to be perfectly calm.
The last debt department -- shops, hotels and tailors -- was one that had nothing to think about.
So it took at least six thousand for running expenses, and it was only a thousand eight hundred.
For a man with a hundred thousand incomes, as the whole state of Toronto determined, such debts would not seem to be difficult; but the fact is that he did not have those hundred thousand.
A huge father's fortune, one to two hundred thousand a year's income, was indistinguishable among the brothers.
While the older brother married, with many debts, Princess Vare Chirkova, the daughter of the decabrist, without any condition, Alexei gave up to the older brother all his income with his father's estate, only kicking himself out twenty-five thousand a year.
Alexei then told his brother that this money would be enough for him until he got married, which is probably never gonna happen.
And the brother, in command of one of the most expensive shelves and just married, couldn't help but accept this gift.
The mother, who had a separate fortune other than the twenty-five thousand who had been reprimanded, gave Alexei thousands more than twenty each year, and Alexei lived all of them.
Recently, his mother stopped sending him money after fighting with him for his connection and his departure from Moscow.
As a result, after having already made the habit of living on 45,5 thousand, and having received only 25,5 thousand this year, he was now in difficulty.
To get out of this trouble, he couldn't ask his mother for money.
The last letter she received the previous day was particularly annoying to him that it contained hints that she was willing to help him succeed in the light and in the service, rather than in the life that scandalized the whole good society.
His mother's desire to buy him insulted him to the depths of his soul and further cooled her down.
But he could not disavow the words of generosity, even though he now felt vaguely presumptuous about some chance of his association with Karenna, that the generous word had been made lightly, and that he, a single man, might need all 100,000 incomes.
But you couldn't deny it.
All he had to do was remember his wife's brother, remember how this lovely, glorious Varya reminded him, at all times, that she remembered his generosity and appreciated him in order to understand the impossibility of taking it back.
It was as impossible as killing a woman, stealing or lying.
One thing was possible and should have been done without a minute of hesitation: to borrow money from a loan shark, 10,000, which could not be difficult, to cut down its expenses at all, and to sell racehorses.
When he decided to do so, he immediately wrote a note to Rolandaka, who sent him several times with an offer to buy horses from him.
Then he sent for the Englishman and the loan shark and put the money he had into his accounts.
After completing these cases, he wrote a cold and harsh reply to his mother's letter.
Then, after delivering three notes from Anna's wallet, he read them, burned them, and remembered his conversation with her yesterday, thought about it.
His life was particularly happy that he had a set of rules that clearly defined everything that should and should not be done.
The set of these rules hugged a very small circle of conditions, but the rules were beyond doubt, and Wronsky never hesitated for a moment to do what he had to do.
These rules clearly determined -- that the brother-in-law had to be paid, and the tailor didn't have to -- that it was not necessary for men to lie, but it was possible for women to lie -- that no one could be lied to, but it was possible for a husband to -- that insults could not be forgiven and that others could be insulted.
All of these rules may have been unreasonable, ungood, but they were undeniable, and when they were fulfilled, he felt that he was calm and able to carry his head high.
Only in the most recent time, with regard to his relationship with Anna, did Wronsky begin to feel that his set of rules did not fully define all the conditions, and in the future there were difficulties and doubts in which he no longer found the guiding thread.
His current attitude toward Anna and her husband was simple and clear to him.
It was clearly and accurately defined in the set of rules that guided it.
She was a decent woman who gave him her love, and he loved her, so she was to him a woman worthy of the same and even more respect than a legitimate wife.
He would have let his hand be cut off before he could afford it with a hint not only to insult her, but not to show her the respect a woman can expect.
Relations with society were also clear.
Everyone could have known, suspected it, but no one should have dared to speak. Otherwise, he was prepared to silence those who spoke and to respect the non-existent honour of the woman he loved.
The relationship with her husband was most clear.
From the moment Anna fell in love with Wronski, he considered one of his rights to be inalienable.
The husband was only an unnecessary and inconvenient face.
No doubt he was in a pathetic position, but what was he supposed to do?
One thing the husband was entitled to was to demand satisfaction with the weapons in his hands, and it was ready to do so from the first minute.
In recent times, however, new, internal relations have emerged between him and her, which have been frighteningly uncertain.
Yesterday, she was the only one who told him she was pregnant. And he felt that this news and what she expected of him required something that was not fully defined by the code of the rules that guided him in life.
Indeed, he was taken by surprise, and the first minute she announced her position, his heart told him to leave his husband.
He said that, but now, thinking about it, he saw clearly that it would be better to do without it, and yet, speaking to himself, he was afraid -- isn't that a bad thing?
"If I told you to leave your husband, it means joining me.
Am I ready for this?
How am I gonna take her away now that I don't have any money?
Let's just say I could arrange this... but how am I gonna take her away when I'm on duty?
If I say it, you have to be prepared for it, that is, have the money and resign."
And he thought about it.
The question of whether or not to resign led him to another, secret, one known, almost central, though hidden, interest in his life.
Honesty was an old dream of his childhood and youth, a dream he didn't admit to himself, but which was so strong that now that passion was struggling with his love.
His first steps in light and in service were successful, but two years ago he made a grave mistake.
He wanted to prove his independence and move away from the position proposed to him, hoping that his refusal would give him a great price; but he turned out to have been too bold and left behind; and, willingly making himself independent, he carried it, being very subtle and clever in holding himself, as if he had not been angry at anyone, felt not wronged, and wished only that he should be left alone, because he was having fun.
In fact, since last year, when he left for Moscow, he hasn't had any fun.
He felt that it was an independent position of a man who could but didn't want to do anything, and that many were beginning to think that he could have done nothing but be honest and kind.
Having made so much noise and paid attention to his connection to Karenina, giving him a new glitter, calmed him for the time of his sharpened worm of ambition, but a week ago this worm woke up with new power.
His companion from childhood, a circle, one community and a fellow corpsman, Serpukhovsky, with whom he competed both in his class, in his gymnastics, in his pranks, and in his dreams of ambition, returned the other day from Central Asia, receiving two points and a distinction rarely given to such young generals.
As soon as he arrived in Petersburg, they spoke of him as a rising star of the first magnitude. He was a general and he was waiting for an appointment that could influence the conduct of public affairs, and he was independent and brilliant, and love-- a lovely woman, but only a company that was allowed to be independent as much as he wanted.
"I guess I'm not jealous and I can't be jealous of Serpukhovsky, but his highness shows me that it's worth waiting for time, and a man's career, like me, can be done very soon.
Three years ago, he was in the same position as me.
When I retire, I will burn my ships.
Staying on duty, I'm not losing anything.
She herself said she didn't want to change her position. And I can't be jealous of Serpukhovsky with her love."
And with the slow motion of the mustache, he stood up from the table and walked around the room, the eyes of his eyes glittering particularly brightly, and he felt the firm, calm and joyful state of spirit that always came upon him after understanding his position.
Everything was as clear and clear as it was after the previous accounts.
He shaved, dressed, took a cold bath and came out.
'I'll follow you. Your laundry has been going on for a long time now,' said Petritzka. 'Well, is it over?
'It is over,' he replied, smiling with one eye and twisting the tips of the mustache so carefully, as if after the order in which his business was brought, any too bold and fast movement could destroy it.
'You're always from the bathtub after that,' said Petritzka. I'm from Gritsky, who's called the regimental commander, waiting for you.
While he was not answering, he looked at his comrades, thinking of something else.
'Yes, is that music?' 'He said, listening to the familiar sounds of the trumpet bass, the waltz, and the waltz.' 'What holiday?'
'Serpukhovsky has arrived.
'Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 'Wronski said,' I did not know.
His smile brightened even more brightly.
Having decided with himself that he was happy with his love, he sacrificed his ambition to her, &quot; taking over at least this role &quot;, he could no longer feel jealous of Serpukhovsky, nor was he angry with him for coming to the regiment and not coming to him first.
Serpukhovsky was a good friend, and he was happy with him.
'Ah, I am very pleased.
Colonel Demin occupied a large settlement house. The whole society was on the spacious lower balcony.
In the yard, the first thing that popped into the eyes of Vronski was the songwriters in the bunks, standing by a barrel of vodka, and the healthy, funny figure of a regimental commander surrounded by officers; when he came out to the first stage of the balcony, he screamed loudly over the music played by the Offenbach frame, ordered something and waved to the soldiers standing aside.
A bunch of soldiers, a wachmist and several non-commissioned officers approached the balcony with Vronski.
On his return to the table, the regimental commander again went out with a glass on the porch and made a toast: "For the health of our former comrade and brave General Prince Serpukhovsky.
Yay!"
After the regimental commander, with a glass in his hand, smiling, Serpukhovsky went out.
'You are getting younger, Bondarenko,' he turned to a man standing in front of him, who served second service to a young red-eyed wahmyster.
Vronsky hasn't seen Serpukhovsky in three years.
He got married by letting the buckenbards go, but he was just as thin, not so beautiful as the tenderness and magnanimity of his face and addition.
One change noted in him was the quiet, constant radiance that is placed on the faces of those who are successful and confident of the recognition of this success by all.
He knew the radiance and immediately noticed it in Serpukhovsky.
On his way down the stairs, Serpukhovsky saw Vronski.
The smile of joy lit up Serpukhovsky's face.
He nodded to the top of his head, lifted up the glass, ripping up the Bronski and showing it with a gesture that he could not help but approach the Wachmist, who had reached out and had already folded his lips for a kiss.
'Well, there he is!' cried the regiment commander. 'And I was told by Yaszvin that you were in your darkest spirit.
Serpukhovsky kissed the wet and fresh lips of the young wahmister, and wiped his mouth with a handkerchief, and went up to him.
'Well, how glad I am! 'He said, shaking his hand and pulling him aside.'
'Take care of him! 'The regimental commander yelled at Yashwin, pointing to Vronski, and went downstairs to the soldiers.'
'Why weren't you at the races yesterday?
I thought I'd see you there,' he said, looking around Serpukhovsky.
'I have arrived, but late.
'It's my fault,' he added, and turned to the Adjutant, 'please order me to give out how much a person will get.
And he got three paperworks out of his wallet in a hurry, and he blushed.
'Vronsky! Eat something or drink? 'Yashvin asked.' 'Hey, let the count eat here!
Here, drink this.
The regimental commander's cottage lasted a long time.
We drank a lot.
Kicked and planted Serpukhovsky.
Then they rocked the regimental commander.
Then the regimental commander and Petritzki danced in front of the songs.
Then the regimental commander, already a bit weak, sat in the yard on a shop and began to prove to Yashwin Russia's advantage before Prussia, especially in the Cavalry attack, and the trench for a minute quiet.
Serpukhovsky went into the house, into the bathroom, to wash his hands; and he found him there: he was filled with water.
He took off the den, rubbing his hair with red hair under the rinsing of the washer, rubbing it and his head with his hands.
At the end of the washout, he sat down with Serpukhovsky. They both got on the couch right away, and they started a conversation that was very interesting for both of them.
'I knew everything about you through my wife,' said Serpukhovsky. 'I'm glad you've seen her a lot.
'She is friendly with Varia, and these are the only women in Petrenburg whom I am pleased to see,' replied Wronsky, smiling.
He smiled at what he saw coming, and it was good for him.
'The only ones?' 'Smile, asked Serpukhovsky again.'
'Yeah, and I knew about you, but not only through your wife,' said Vronsky with the strict expression of his face, prohibiting this hint. 'I was very pleased with your success, and not surprised at all.
I've been waiting for more...
Serpukhovsky smiled.
He apparently enjoyed this view of him, and he didn't find it necessary to hide it.
'I, on the other hand, have come to confess frankly, I have waited less.
But I'm glad, I'm so glad. I'm ambitious, it's my weakness, and I'll admit it.
'Maybe you wouldn't have confessed if you hadn't been successful,' he said.
'I don't think so,' said Serpukhovsky again smiling. 'I won't tell you not to live without it, but it would be boring.'
Of course, I may be mistaken, but it seems to me that I have some abilities in the sphere of activity that I have chosen, and that I have power in my hands, whatever it may be, it will be better than in the hands of many known to me, &quot; Serpukhovska said with a shining consciousness of success. 'And therefore, the closer I get to it, the more pleased I am.
'It may be so for you, but not for everyone.
I thought the same thing, but I'm living, and I find that I shouldn't live for it alone,' he said.
'This is it!
That's it! 'Laughing,' said Serpukhovsky. 'I started with what I heard about you, about your refusal...'
Of course I approved you.
But there's a manner to everything. And I think the best thing to do is you didn't do it right.
'What is done is done, and you know I never renounce what I have done.
And then I'm fine.
'Great -- for the time being.
But you're not satisfied with it. I'm not telling your brother.
It's a lovely child, just like our master.
There he is! 'He added, listening to the cry of hooray,' and he had fun, and that's not what pleases you.
'I do not say that it is satisfactory.
'That's not one thing.
People like you are needed.
'To whom?
'To whom?
To the community.
Russia needs people, it needs a party, otherwise everything goes and goes to the dogs.
Bertenev Party against Russian Communists?
'No,' said Serpukhovsky, wrinkled because he was suspected of being so stupid. --Tout ca est une blague.
It's always been and always will be.
There are no communists.
But always people of intrigue have to invent a harmful, dangerous party.
It's an old thing.
No, we need a party of independent people, like you and me.
'But why?' 'Vronsky has named several powerful men. 'But why aren't they independent people?'
'Only because they had no or no independence, no name, no proximity to the sun in which we were born.
You can buy them either with money or lazy. And to hold on, they have to come up with a direction.
And they're doing something that they don't believe in, that they're doing evil, and it's all about the means to have a house and so much pay.
Cela n'est pas plus fin que ca, when you look at their cards.
Maybe I'm worse, stupider than them, even though I can't see why I should be worse than them.
But I may already have one important advantage, something that's harder to buy.
And people like that are more needed than ever.
He listened carefully, but not so much as to the content of his words, but to the case of Serpukhovsky, who was already thinking of fighting power and having his sympathy and apathy in it, while for him only the interests of the squadron were in his service.
He also understood how strong Serpukhovsky could be with his unmistakable ability to think, understand things, his mind, and the gift of a word so rarely found in the environment in which he lived.
And as much as he was ashamed of it, he was jealous.
'I still lack one main thing for this,' he replied. 'The desire for power is lacking.
It was, but it passed.
'Excuse me, it is not true,' said Serpukhovsky, smiling.
'No, really, really! Now, &lt;br /&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Now, &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;br/&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;To be sincere, &lt;br/&gt;br/&gt;Vronsky added up.
'Yeah, really, now it's different; but it won't always be.
'Maybe,' he answered.
'You say maybe,' said Serpukhovsky, as if by guessing his thoughts, 'and I'm telling you, I think.
And that's why I wanted to see you. You did what you had to do.
I understand that, but you shouldn't be persevering.
I'm just asking you to cute blanche.
I don't patronise you...
Why should I not patronize you?
You've been patronizing me so many times!
I hope our friendship is better than this.
Yes,' he said gently, as a woman, smiling at him. 'Give me a carde blanche, get out of the shelf, and I'll drag you in.
'But you understand, I don't need anything,' he said, 'as soon as things were as they were.
Serpukhovsky stood up and opposed him.
'You said that things should be the way they were.'
I know what that means.
But listen, we are of equal age; perhaps you have more knowledge of women than I have. 'The smile and gestures of Serpukhovsky said that he should not be afraid that he would touch the sick place gently and carefully. 'But I am married, and believe that when you know one of your wives (as someone wrote), whom you love, you will know all the women better than if you knew thousands of them.
'We'll be right there!' cried out to the Pharaoh's officer who looked into the room and called them to the regimental commander.
Vronsky wanted to hear it now and see what he was gonna say to him.
'And here's my opinion.
Women are the main stumbling block in human activity.
It's hard to love a woman and do something.
To do so, there is one means of being comfortable without interference with love: marriage.
How can you say what I think,' said Serpukhovsky, who loved comparisons, 'Wait, wait!
Yeah, how to carry a fronteau and do something with your hands only when the front is tied to your back -- and that's marriage.
And that's what I felt when I got married.
All of a sudden, I had my hands crossed.
But without getting married, bringing this fardeau -- the hands will be so full that nothing can be done.
Look at Mazankov, Krupova.
They ruined their careers because of women.
'What women! 'Vronsky said, remembering the Frenchwoman and the actress with whom the two men had been associated.
'The worse, the stronger the position of the woman in light, the worse.
It's like pulling it out of someone else's hands isn't what it is.
'You have never loved,' he said quietly, looking in front of himself and thinking of Anna.
'Maybe.
But remember what I told you.
And women are more material than men. We do something huge out of love, and they're always terre-a-terre.
'Now, now!' he turned to the footman who entered.
But the footmen did not come to call them again, as he thought.
The footman brought the Vronski note.
'The man brought you from Princess Tverska.
Wronsky printed the letter and went off.
'I have a headache, I will go home,' he said.
'Well, goodbye.
You're giving me a carde blanche?
'After we talk, I will find you in Petersburg.
It was the sixth hour, and therefore, in order to be on time and not to ride his horses, whom everyone knew, he sat down in Yashwin's fine carriage and told him to go as quickly as possible.
The big old four-seat carriage was spacious. He sat in a corner, pulled his legs to the front and thought.
The vague awareness of the clarity of his affairs, the vague memory of the friendship and flattery of Serpukhovsky, who considered him to be the right person, and, above all, the waiting for a date -- all came together as a general impression of a joyful sense of life.
The feeling was so strong that he smiled involuntarily.
He brought down his feet, laid one on the other's knee, and took her into his hand, and felt the palpable caviar of his feet stunned in the fall yesterday, and reclining back, sighed several times with all his breasts.
"Okay, very good!" 'He said to himself.
He had often experienced a joyful mind of his body before, but he never loved himself as much as he did now.
It was good for him to feel this slight pain in his strong leg, and it was good for him to feel the movement of his chest while breathing.
The very clear and cold day of August, which acted so hopelessly on Anna, seemed to him to be exhilarating and refreshing his burning face and neck.
The smell of diamonds from his mustache seemed particularly pleasant in this fresh air.
Everything he saw in the window of the carriage, all in this cold clean air, in this pale light of the sunset was as fresh, funny and as much as he himself: the roofs of houses, shiny in the rays of the sun, and the sharp shapes of fences and corners of buildings, and the figures of rare pedestrians and crews, and the stationary greening of trees and grasses, and fields with properly cut potatoes, and the shadows falling from the houses and from the trees, and from the bushes, and from the very horrid of the potatoes. Everything was beautiful, like a beautiful landscape just finished and covered with varnish.
'Go, go!' he said to the coachman, sticking himself out the window, and delivering a three-bore paper from his pocket, he shoved it to a lookout.
The driver's hand felt something at the torch, heard the whip whistle, and the carriage quickly rolled along the smooth road.
"Nothing, I don't want anything but this happiness," he thought, looking at the bump of a bell between the windows and imagining Anna the way he saw her the last time he saw her. 'And the further away, the more I love her.'
Here's the garden of Vide's delivery.
Where is she?
Where?
How?
Why is she here on a date and writing in Betsy's letter?" 'He thought only now; but there was no time to think.'
He stopped the coachman without reaching the alley, and when he opened the door, he jumped out of the carriage and went into the alley leading to the house.
There was no one in the alley: but when he looked to the right, he saw her.
Her face was covered by a voilà, but he took a joyous look in a special way, with one characteristic movement of walking, a slope of her shoulders, and a position of her head, and immediately it was like an electric current running through his body. He felt with renewed strength himself, from the pulmonary movement of his legs to the movement of his lungs while breathing, and something tickled his lips.
When she joined him, she shook his hand.
'Aren't you angry that I called you?
I needed to see you,' she said; and the serious and hard lip depot he saw from under the veil immediately changed his mood.
'I am angry!
But how did you get here, where?
'It's all the same,' she said, putting her hand on him, 'come on, I need to have a word.
He realized something had happened and that it wouldn't be a happy date.
In her presence, he did not have his will: without knowing the cause of her anxiety, he already felt that the same alarm had been communicated to him involuntarily.
'What is it? What? 'He asked, squeezing her hand and trying to read her thoughts in her face.'
She passed several steps silently, gathering with the spirit, and suddenly stopped.
'I didn't tell you yesterday,' she began, breathing very hard, 'that when I returned home with Alexei Alexandrovich, I told him everything... said that I couldn't be his wife, that... that's all I said.
He listened to her, involuntarily bowing to the whole country, as if to alleviate her plight.
But as soon as she said it, he suddenly straightened out, his face took on a proud and strict expression. 'Yes, yes, it is better, a thousand times better! I understand how hard it was,' he said.
But she wouldn't listen to what he said, and she would read his thoughts on the face.
She could not have known that the expression of his face related to his first thought, namely, the inevitability of a duel.
She never thought of a duel, so she explained this fleeting expression of severity differently.
After receiving her husband's letter, she knew deep down that everything would remain the same, that she would not be able to neglect her position, abandon her son and join her lover.
The morning at Princess Tversky's, she was even more so.
But it was a very important date for her.
She was hoping this date would change their situation and save her.
If he gives the news with determination, passion, without a minute of hesitation, he'll say to her, "Throw it all down and run with me!" She'll leave her son and leave with him.
But the news didn't bring him what she expected: he was only insulted by something.
'It wasn't hard for me at all. 'It came out of itself,' she said, annoying, 'and here...' she took her husband's letter out of her glove.
'I understand, I understand,' he interrupted it by taking the letter, but by not reading it and trying to calm it, 'I wanted one thing, I asked one thing, 'to break it in order to dedicate my life to your happiness.
'Why are you telling me this? 'She said.' 'Can I doubt that?
If I hadn't doubted...
'Who is this coming?' 'Wronsky said suddenly, pointing to two ladies who were approaching.' 'Maybe they know us,' and he hastened to draw her behind him into the sidewalk.
'Oh, I don't care!' she said.
Her lips trembled. And it seemed to him that her eyes were staring at him from under the voilà. 'So I say it's not that, I can't doubt it; but here's what he's writing to me.
Read it. 'She stopped again.
Again, as at the first minute, when she was told that she had broken up with her husband, when he read the letter, he willingly gave up the natural impression that he had given to an insulted husband.
Now that he was holding his letter in his hand, he was suddenly imagining the challenge he would probably find today or tomorrow, and the duel, during which he would stand under the shot of an insulted husband with the cold and proud expression that he still had on his face when he shot in the air.
And immediately, in his head, the thought of what Serpukhovsky had just told him and that he himself had thought this morning -- that it was best not to bind himself -- and he knew that he could not convey that message to her.
When he read the letter, he looked at her, and his eyes were not firm.
She immediately realized that he had already thought about it with himself. She knew that whatever he told her, he wouldn't say everything he thought.
And she realized that her last hope had been deceived. It wasn't what she was waiting for.
'You see what kind of man he is,' she said with a trembling voice, 'he...
'Forgive me, but I rejoice in it,' interrupted Vronsky. 'For God's sake, let me finish,' he added, begging her with his eyes to give him time to explain his words. 'I'm happy because it can't, it can't stay the way he thinks.'
'Why can't he? 'In holding back her tears,' said Anna, evidently no longer attaching any meaning to what he would say.
She felt that her fate had been resolved.
Vronsky wanted to say that, after what he thought was inevitable, the duel could not continue, but said otherwise.
'Can't go on.
I hope you leave him now.
I hope -- he's embarrassed and blushing that you're gonna let me set up and think about our lives tomorrow... -- he started.
She didn't let him talk.
'And the son? 'She cried out.' 'Do you see what he's writing?' 'We have to leave him, and I can't and I don't want to do it.'
'But for God's sake, what is better?
Should I leave my son or continue this humiliating situation?
'Whose humiliation is it for?'
'For everyone and most of all for you.
'You say humiliating... don't say that. Those words make no sense to me,' she said with a trembling voice.
She didn't want him to lie now.
She had only one love left for him, and she wanted to love him. 'You understand that everything has changed for me since the day I fell in love with you.
To me, one and the other is your love.
If it's mine, I feel so high, so firm, nothing can be humiliating to me.
I'm proud of my position because... I'm proud of... I'm proud of... 'She didn't tell me what he was proud of.
The tears of shame and despair strangled her voice, Oma stopped and wept.
He also felt something coming up to his throat, pinching his nose, and for the first time in his life he felt ready to cry.
He couldn't say what touched him; he felt sorry for her, felt that he couldn't help her, yet knew that he was the wine of her misfortune, that he had done something bad.
'Isn't a divorce impossible? 'He said weakly.'
She didn't answer, she shook her head. 'Can't you take your son and leave him?
'Yes; but it all depends on him.
Now I have to go to him,' she said, dry.
Her feeling that everything would stay the same didn't deceive her.
'On Tuesday I will be in Petersburg, and it will be settled.'
'Yes,' she said. 'But let's not talk about it again.
Anna's carriage, which she sent and told her to come to the bars of the garden of Vreda, arrived.
Anna said goodbye to him and went home.
Monday was the usual meeting of the commission on 2 June.
Alexey Alexandrovich entered the meeting room, said hello to the members and the chairman, as usual, and sat in his seat, putting his hand on the papers he had prepared before him.
These documents included unnecessary references to him and a sketch of the statement he intended to make.
He didn't need a background check, though.
He remembered everything and didn't think it was necessary to say what he would say in his memory.
He knew that when the time came, and when he saw the face of the enemy, in vain, trying to express himself indifferently, his speech would come out better than he could now prepare.
He felt that the content of his speech was so great that every word would matter.
Meanwhile, in his regular report, he had the most innocent, harmless look.
No one thought, looking at his white ones with their hands swollen, so softly long that they felt both sides of the white paper lying in front of him, and at him with the expression of fatigue on the side of his bent head, that he was about to make such speeches out of his mouth that would make a terrible storm, make the members scream, interrupting each other, and the chairman demand order.
When the report ended, he announced in a quiet, subtle voice that he had some of his views on the alien scheme case. Attention turned to him.
Alexey Alexandrovich coughed up and, without looking at his opponent, chose, as he had always done in his speeches, the first person sitting in front of him, a humble little old man who had never had any opinion in the commission, began to express his views.
When it came to indigenous and organic law, the enemy jumped up and began to object.
Stremov, also a member of the commission and also hurt for the living, began to make excuses, &quot; and there was a tempestuous meeting in general &quot; ; but Aleksey Alexandrovich prevailed and his proposal was accepted; three new commissions were appointed; and on the other day, in a well-known peterburg circle, there was only talk of this meeting.
Alexey Alexandrovich's success was even greater than he expected.
On Tuesday morning, when he woke up, he was happy to remember yesterday's victory, and he could not help but smile, even though he wanted to seem indifferent when the president of the office, in order to flatter him, reported the rumours that had occurred before him at the commission.
In dealing with the ruler of the office, he completely forgot that it was now Tuesday, the day he had appointed to visit Anna Arkadievna, and was surprised and disheartened when a man came to report her.
Anna arrived in Petersburg early in the morning; she was followed by a carriage by means of her telegram, and she could have been informed of her arrival.
But when she arrived, he didn't meet her.
She was told he wasn't out yet, and he's working with the president of the office.
She told her husband that she had come and gone to her office and had taken care of her things, waiting for him to come to her.
But it's been an hour, he didn't come.
She went out to the dining room under the pretext of an order and spoke on purpose, expecting him to come here; but he did not come out, even though she heard that he had gone out to the door of the office to see the governor of the office.
She knew that, as usual, he was about to leave the service, and she wanted to see him before that, so that their relationship would be defined.
She walked through the hall and went to him with determination.
When she entered his office, he was in a Vismundir, apparently ready to leave, sitting at the little table on which he had turned his hands and looked down in front of him.
She saw him before he saw her, and she realized what he was thinking about her.
When he saw her, he wanted to get up, thought, and then his face flashed, which Anna had never seen before, and he quickly stood up and met her, looking not into her eyes, but above her forehead and hair.
He went up to her, took her hand and asked her to sit down.
'I am very glad that you have come,' he said, sitting beside her, and apparently wanting to say something, he stumbled.
He wanted to start talking a few times, but he stopped...
Although preparing for this date, she taught herself to despise and blame him, she did not know what to say to him and felt sorry for him.
And so the silence went on for quite some time. 'Serezha is well? 'He said, and he added, without waiting for an answer, 'I will not eat at home today, and now I have to go.'
'I wanted to go to Moscow,' she said.
'No, you did very, very well to come,' he said, and again you were silent.
Seeing that he couldn't start talking on his own, she started on her own.
'Alexei Alexandrovich,' she said, looking at him and keeping an eye on him with his eye on her hair, 'I am a criminal woman, I am a bad woman, but I am what I said to you then, and I came to tell you that I can't change anything.
'I didn't ask you about it,' he said, suddenly looking her straight in the eye with determination and hatred, 'I thought so. 'It seems that, under the influence of anger, he once again mastered all his abilities. 'But, as I told you then,' he said in a sharp, thin voice, 'I now repeat that I do not have to know.
I'm ignoring it. Not all wives are as kind as you are to be in such a hurry to give such pleasant news to their husbands. 'He hit the word "charming" in particular.' 'I ignore it until the light knows it, until my name is disgraced.
And so I'm just warning you that our relationship has to be what it's always been, and that only if you compromise yourself will I have to take steps to protect my honor.
'But our relationship cannot be as it always is,' said Anna with a shy voice, looking at him with fear.
When she saw these calm gestures again, she heard this piercing, childish and mocking voice, aversion to him destroyed her previous pity, and she was only afraid, but in no way wanted to understand her situation.
'I cannot be your wife when I...' she began.
He laughed at evil and cold laughter.
'The kind of life you chose must have affected your notions.
I respect or despise both... I respect your past and despise the present... that I was far from the interpretation you gave me.
Anna sighed and dropped her head.
'I don't understand, however, how, having as much independence as you,' he continued, frantically, 'by declaring to his husband his infidelity and not finding anything reprehensible in it, do you seem to find it reprehensible to the husband of his wife's duties?
'Alexei Alexandrovich! What do you want from me?
'I need that I do not meet this man here and that you behave in such a way that neither the light nor the servants can blame you... lest you see him.'
I don't think that's much.
And for that, you will enjoy the rights of an honest wife without fulfilling her duties.
That's all I have to say to you.
Now it's time for me to go.
I don't eat at home.
He stood up and headed towards the door.
Anna stood up, too. He bowed silently and missed her.
The night that Levin spent on a cop did not pass for him a gift: the farm that he was leading was opposed to him, and he lost all interest in him. Despite an excellent harvest, it has never been, or at least never seemed, to him that there were so many failures and as many hostile relations between him and the men as this year, and the reasons for the failures and this hostility were now fully understood by him.
The beauty that he had experienced in the work itself, as a result of the convergence he had with the men, the envy he felt for them, the envy he felt for them, the desire to move into this life, which on that night was no longer a dream for him, but the intention that he had thought about, all of which changed his view of his own household, that he could no longer find any previous interest in him, nor could he fail to see the unpleasant attitude he had towards his workers, which was the basis of the whole case. A herd of improved cows like Pava, all fertilized land ploughed with plows, nine equal fields planted with vines, ninety tithes of deep-smelled manure, private seedlings, etc. 'All this was fine if it were done only by him, or by him, with his comrades, with people who sympathize with him.'
But he saw clearly now (his work on a book on agriculture, in which the main element of the farm should have been an employee, much helped him in doing so) -- he now clearly saw that the farm he was running was only a violent and persistent struggle between him and the workers, in which on one side, on his side, there was a constant intense desire to transform everything into the considered best model, on the other hand, the natural order of things. And in this struggle, he saw that, with the greatest strain on his part and without any effort or even intention on the other side, the only thing that had been achieved was that the economy had been in no one &apos; s hands and that beautiful weapons, beautiful animals and land had been destroyed in vain.
The important thing is that not only did the energy for the cause go completely to waste, but he couldn't help but feel now that his farm was exposed to him, that the purpose of his energy was the most unworthy. In fact, what was the struggle?
He stood for every penny of his own (and couldn't help but stand, because he had to loosen up his energy, and he wouldn't have enough money to pay the workers) and they just stood up for working in peace and pleasure, which is how they used to be. It was in his interest that every worker should work as much as possible, not forgetting to try not to break the wands, horse burglaries, hammers, to think about what he was doing; the employee wanted to work as pleasantly as possible, with rest, and most importantly, carelessly and forgetting without thinking.
This summer Levin saw it every step of the way. He sent the clover to the hay, choosing the bad tithes, which grew out of grass and mud, which were bad for the seeds -- he was reaped the best seed tithes in a row, justified by what the orderman had ordered, and comforted him by the fact that the hay would be great; but he knew that it was because these tithes were easier to mow.
He sent a hay shaker to shake the hay,' it was broken in the front row, 'cause it was boring for a man to sit on goats under his waving wings. And it was said to him, "Don't worry, the women are freaking out."
The ponds proved to be distasteful, because the worker did not think to put down the incisor that had been raised up; and when he groaned, he tormented the horses and ruined the ground; and he was asked to be dead. The horses were launched into wheat because no worker wanted to be a night watchman, and despite orders not to do so, the workers alternated to guard the night, and Wanka, after working all day, fell asleep and repented of his sin, saying, "Your will."
Three of the best chicks were fed because without water, they let them into the clover, and they didn't want to believe they were blown up by a clover, but told in comfort as a neighbor had a hundred and twelve heads in three days.
All of this was done not because someone wanted to harm Levin or his household; on the contrary, he knew that he had been loved, was regarded as a mere barin (which is the highest praise); but it was done only because he wanted to work fun and carelessly, and his interests were not only alien and incomprehensible, but fatally opposed to their most just interests.
Levin had long been displeased with his attitude toward the household. He saw his boat running, but he didn't find or look for leaks, maybe deliberately deceiving himself.
But now he couldn't fool himself anymore. Not only did he not care about the farm, but it was disgusting, and he could no longer do it.
The presence of Kitty Scherbatsky in his 30s, which he wanted and could not see, added to this.
Daria Alexandrovna Oblonsky, when he was with her, asked him to come, to come to renew the offer to her sister, who, as she had let her feel, would now accept him.
Levin himself, seeing Kitty Shcherbatsky, realized that he had not stopped loving her; but he could not go to Oblonsky, knowing that she was there.
That he proposed to her, and she refused him, put an irresistible barrier between him and her.
"I can't ask her to be my wife because she can't be the wife of whoever she wanted," he said to himself.
The thought of it made him cold and hostile to her.
"I will not be able to speak to her without a feeling of reproach, to look at her without anger, and she will only hate me even more as she should be.
And then, how can I now, after what Daria Alexandrovna told me to do, go to them?
Can I not show you that I know what she told me?
And I will come with generosity -- to forgive her, to pardon her.
I am in front of her as a forgiving and loving man!
Why did Daria Alexandrovna say that to me?
I wish I could have seen her, and then everything would have turned out to be, but now it's impossible, it's impossible!"
Daria Alexandrovna sent him a note asking him for a lady's saddle for Kitty.
"I was told you had a saddle," she wrote to him. 'I hope you bring him yourself.'
He couldn't bear it anymore.
How a smart, delicate woman could so humiliate her sister!
He wrote ten notes and tore it up and sent a saddle without any answer.
Write that he's coming -- you can't, because he can't come; you can't say he can't come because he can't, because he can't, or he's leaving -- that's even worse.
He sent the saddle without answer and conscious that he had done something embarrassing, but on the other day, after handing over the rest of the land to the orderman, he went to a far-fetched village to his friend Sviyazhsky, who was surrounded by beautiful buffalo marshes and had recently written to him asking him to fulfil his long-standing intention to visit him.
Dupelin marshes in Surov County had long seduced Levin, but he kept his business busy and postponed the trip.
Now, however, he was happy to leave Scherbatsky's neighborhood and, above all, the farm, to hunt, which in all his sorrows served him as the best comfort.
There was neither a railway nor a postage road in the county of Surovsk, and Levin was riding in his tarantas.
On half the road, he stopped feeding a rich man.
A bald, fresh old man with a big red beard, gray by his cheeks, opened the gate, clinging to the faith to miss the three.
After pointing out a place under the curtain on a large, clean, and cleaned new court with burnt owls, the old man asked Levin to go upstairs.
A clean-dressed young woman, wearing cuffs on her bare feet, bent down, wiped the floor with new hay.
She was afraid of the dog running after Levin and cried out, but immediately laughed at her fear when she learned that the dog would not touch.
When she showed Levin her hand on the door to the chamber, she hid her beautiful face again, bent down, and kept washing.
'Samvar, is it?' 'She asked.'
'Yes, please.
The garage was big, with a Dutch oven and a partition.
Under the images there was a pattern-painted table, a shop, and two chairs.
There was a dish locker outside.
The stakes were closed, the flies were few, and it was so clear that Levin made sure that Laska, who was running on the road and swimming in the puddles, would not smash the floor, and indicated to her a place in the corner by the door.
When Levin looked around the tower, he went out into the backyard.
Pleasant young woman in the cuffs, swinging empty buckets on the coroms, ran in front of him for water to the well.
'Now I have!' the old man yelled at her funnyly and approached Levin. 'What, sir, are you going to Nikolai Ivanovichski?'
They're coming to see us, too,-- he started to say a word, turning his back on the porch railing.
In the middle of the old man's story of his acquaintance with the Sviyazh gate, the squeaks were again squeaked, and the workers from the field with the mooses and the borons entered the yard.
The horse's hounds and borons were full and large.
The workers were apparently family: two were young, two were wearing white shirts and cards, and the other two were hired, and one was old, and the other was young. As he walked away from the porch, the old man went up to the horses and began to freak out.
'What was that?' 'I asked Levin.'
'The potatoes were smelling.'
We're holding the ground, too.
You, Fedot, don't let the meringue in, but put something else on the well.
'What, Father, did I order the kittens to take, did I bring them?' 'Asked a great height, a big boy, apparently the son of an old man.
'In... in the sled,' answered the old man, scrambling around the loosed ones and throwing them on the ground. 'Fix it, they'll have lunch.'
A benevolent young woman, full of shoulders, pulled out of her shoulders with buckets, passed through the hay.
There are women from somewhere else -- young, beautiful, medium and old, ugly, with and without children.
The samurai chewed in the trumpet; the workers and the family went out with the horses and went to lunch.
Levin brought his provisions out of the wheelchair, and invited the old man with him to drink tea.
'Yes, we have already been drinking,' said the old man, apparently with pleasure accepting the offer. 'It's not for the company.
After tea, Levin learned the whole story of an old man's farm.
The old man filmed a hundred and twenty ten from the lodger ten years ago, and last year he bought them and filmed another 300 from the next landowner.
A small portion of the earth, the worst part of it, he gave out the hires, and a tithe of forty in the field smelled of his own family and two hired workers.
The old man complained it wasn't going well.
Levin realized, however, that he had complained only out of decency and that his household had flourished.
Had it been bad, he wouldn't have bought a hundred and five rubles of land, married three sons and a nephew, built twice after the fires, and everything was better and better.
Despite the old man &apos; s complaints, it appeared that he was justly proud of his wealth, proud of his sons, nephew, daughters-in-law, horses, cows and, in particular, of holding on to the whole household.
In a conversation with an old man, Levin learned that he was not averse to innovation.
He sowed a lot of potatoes, and his potatoes, which Levin saw when he drove up, had already blossomed and became sober, whereas Levin had only blossomed.
He smelled like plough potatoes, as he called a plow taken from a landowner.
He was spreading wheat.
A little detail about the fact that when the old man was missing, he was feeding the horses with his peanuts, and he was particularly struck by Levin.
How many times Levin, seeing this lost fine food, wanted to gather it; but it always proved impossible.
The man did it, and he couldn't brag about it.
'What shall the women do?'
They're gonna take the piles to the road, and the cart's gonna come.
'Oh, here we are, the landlords, and we are not doing well with the workers,' said Levin, giving him a cup of tea.
'Thank you,' answered the old man, taking a glass, but refusing sugar, pointing to the rest of the lump he had chewed. 'Where do you deal with the workers?' 'He said.' 'Great one.
I wish I had Sviyazhskov.
We know the land, the poppy, and we don't brag too much about crops.
It's all an oversight!
'You're the boss of the workers, aren't you?'
'Our business is manly.'
We're on our own.
It's bad, we're out, and we're gonna do ours.
'Father, Finogen told me to get the money,' said the woman in the cuffs.
'That's right, sir!' said the old man, standing up, crossed over for a long time, thanked Levin and came out.
When Levin entered the blackout to summon his coachman, he saw the whole family of men at the table.
The women were standing up.
A young, big son, with a mouth full of porridge, said something funny, and everyone laughed, and in particular a funny woman in claps who put her neck in a cup.
It may well be that the good-looking face of the woman in the caps contributed greatly to the impression of the improvement that the peasant house had made on Levin, but the impression was so strong that Levin could never get away from him.
And all the way from the old man to Sviyazhsky, no, and I thought about this farm again, as if something in that impression required his special attention.
Sviyazhsky was the leader in his village.
He was five years older than Levin and long married.
His young sister-in-law, a very pretty girl, lived in his house.
Levin knew that Sviyazhsky and his wife were very eager to marry him to this girl.
He knew that without a doubt, as the young men, the so-called grooms, have always known, even though he never would have said it to anyone, and he also knew that, despite the fact that he wanted to get married, despite all the information that this very attractive girl was supposed to be a beautiful wife, he could not marry her, even if he was not in love with Kitty Scherbatsky, how to fly to heaven.
And that knowledge poisoned him with the pleasure he hoped to have from the journey to Sviyazhsky.
After receiving a letter from Sviyazhsky inviting him to the hunt, Levin immediately thought about it, but in spite of that, he decided that such views on him were only his unfounded assumption, and therefore he would go.
Also, deep down, he wanted to test himself, try again on this girl.
Sviyazhsky's home life was extremely pleasant, and Sviyazhsky himself, the best type of earthly figure Levin ever knew, was always extremely interesting to Levin.
Sviyazhsky was one of those who was always amazing to Levin, whose reasoning, which is very consistent, though never independent, goes on in itself, and life, which is extremely certain and firm in its direction, goes on in itself, completely independent and almost always at odds with reasoning.
Sviyazhsky was an extremely liba-- real.
He despised the nobles and considered the majority of the nobles to be secret, only unspoken and fortified.
He considered Russia to be a dead country, like Turkey, and Russia's government to be so bad that it never allowed itself to even seriously criticize the government's actions, yet he served and was a model noble leader, and he always wore a cocard and a red necklace to the road.
He believed that human life was possible only abroad, where he went to live at the earliest opportunity, but also led a very complex and improved economy in Russia and followed with extreme interest everything and knew everything that had been done in Russia.
He thought the Russian man was in the transition from a monkey to a man, but in the land elections he was more likely to shake hands with the men and listen to their opinions...
He did not believe in chocolate or death, but was very concerned about the improvement of the clergy and the reduction of parishes, especially to keep the church in his village.
On the women &apos; s issue, he was on the side of the extreme supporters of women &apos; s full freedom, especially their right to work, but lived with the woman in such a way that everyone admired their friendly, childless family life, and arranged her wife &apos; s life in such a way that she did nothing but do nothing but share a common concern with her husband, how to have a better and more fun time.
If Levin did not have the ability to explain to himself on the best side, Sviyazhsky's character would not have presented him with any difficulty or question; he would have said to himself, Stupid or lousy, and everything would have been clear.
But he couldn't say a fool, because Sviyazhsky was certainly not only a very smart, but a very educated and extraordinaryly educated person.
There was no thing he did not know, but he showed his knowledge only when we forced him to do so.
Even less could Levin have said that he was a piece of shit, because Sviyazhsky was undoubtedly an honest, kind, intelligent man who had fun, lively, constantly doing a work that everyone around him appreciated, and probably had never consciously done or could have done anything wrong.
Levin tried to understand and did not understand and always looked at him and his life as a living mystery.
They were friends with Levin, so Levin allowed himself to test Sviyazhsky, to get to the very foundation of his view of life; but it was always futile.
Every time Levin tried to enter beyond the doors open to all the reception rooms of Sviyazhsky's mind, he noticed that Sviyazhsky was a little confused; a slight fear expressed in his eyes, as if he feared that Levin would understand him, and he gave a kind and fun fight.
Now, after his disappointment in the household, Levin was particularly pleased to visit Sviyazhsky.
Not to mention that he was having fun looking at these happy, happy, and all the doves, their well-established nest, he wanted now, feeling so unhappy with his life, to get in Sviyazhsky to the secret that gave him such clarity, certainty and fun in life.
In addition, Levin knew what he would see from the Sviyazh roommates, and he was now particularly interested in talking, hearing about the farm, talking about crops, hiring workers, etc., which Levin knew was considered to be very low, but which now seemed very important to Levin.
"It may not have mattered under serf law or in England.
In both cases, the most basic conditions have been defined; but now that all of this has been reversed and is settled, the question of how these conditions will be met is only one important question in Russia," Levin thought.
The hunt was worse than Levin expected.
The swamp's dry, and there weren't any dope at all.
He spent the whole day and brought only three grand, but at the same time he brought, as always from hunting, a great appetite, a great spirit attitude, and a hot mental state, which was always accompanied by a strong physical movement.
And on the hunt, at a time when he didn't seem to think of anything, no, no, and again he was reminded of an old man with his family, and it seemed like it required not only attention, but also permission to do something about him.
In the evening, for tea, in the presence of two raiders who had come on some sort of custody business, the very interesting conversation that Levin expected began.
Levin sat beside the hostess at the tea table, and was to have a conversation with her and her sister-in-law, sitting against him.
The hostess was a round-faced, blonde, and small woman, all shiny with pits and smiles.
Levin tried through her to find a solution to the important mystery that her husband represented for him; but he did not have complete freedom of thought, because he was incredibly uncomfortable.
It was painfully embarrassing to him that his sister-in-law was sitting against him in a special dress for him, which seemed to him to be special in the form of a trapeze of a cut on a white breast; this quadriang cut, despite the fact that the breast was very white, or especially because it was very white, deprived Levin of his freedom of thought.
He imagined, perhaps mistakenly, that the cut was made on his account, and felt that he had no right to look at him and tried not to look at him; but he felt guilty for one thing that had been done.
Levin felt that he was lying to someone, that he should explain something, but that there was no way to explain it, and therefore he was blushing, troubled, and embarrassed.
The awkwardness of him was communicated to his pretty sister-in-law. But the hostess didn't seem to notice it and deliberately dragged her into the conversation.
'You say,' continued the mistress of the conversation, 'that the husband cannot be interested in all Russians.
On the contrary, he's fun abroad, but never the way he is here.
This is where he feels in his field.
He has so much to do, and he has the gift to be interested in everyone.
Oh, you weren't at our school?
'I have seen...
It's an ivy cottage, isn't it?
'Yes, it is Nastino's business,' she said, pointing to her sister.
'Do you teach yourself? 'I asked Levin, trying to look past the cut, but feeling that wherever he looked in that direction, he would see the cut.'
'Yes, I taught and taught myself, but we have a wonderful teacher.
And we introduced gymnastics.
'No, I thank you, I don't want any more tea,' said Levin, and feeling that he was making a lack of respect, but that he could no longer continue this conversation, blushing, stood up. 'I hear a very interesting conversation,' he added, and came to the other end of the table, where the owner was sitting with the two invaders.
Sviyazhsky sat side by side to the table, turning his hand around the cup, giving out each other like a sniff.
He looked right at a hot dungeon with a gray mustache and apparently found fun in his speeches.
The landowner complained about the people.
It was clear to Levin that Sviyazhsky knew such a response to the complaints of the landowner, who would immediately destroy the whole meaning of his speech, but that by his position he could not say that answer and did not listen without the pleasure of the comic speech of the landowner.
The landowner with the gray mustache was apparently a long - lived forerunner and a village elder, a passionate rural master.
Levin also saw these signs in his clothes -- an old-fashioned, worn-out jacket, apparently an unusual dumpster, and in his smart, frowny eyes, and in his folded Russian speech, and in his military, apparently long experience of a great tone, and in the decisive movements of large, beautiful, tanned hands with one old wedding ring in a nameless place.
'Only if it hadn't been a pity to give up that a lot of work had been done...' said the landowner with his clever old face with a pleasant smile.
'Well, don't give up,' said Nikolai Ivanovich Sviyazhsky, 'it turns out there are calculations.
'The only calculation is that I live at home, unpurchased, unhired.'
Still, you're hoping the people will come to their senses.
'Cause you believe it -- it's drunk, it's debauchery!
Everyone's changed, no horses, no cows.
You're gonna starve to death, and you're gonna have to hire him -- he's gonna screw you up, and he's gonna go to the justice of the peace.
'But you will also complain to the justice of the peace,' said Sviyazhsky.
'Shall I complain?'
No way in the world!
Talking's gonna be like this, and I'm not happy to complain!
At the factory, they took the deposit, left.
What about the justice of the peace?
Well, that's all he's got to do, and that's all he's got to do.
This one's gonna kick him out the old-fashioned way.
Don't be like that -- drop everything! Run to the end of the world!
Apparently, the landowner was teasing Sviyazhsky, but Sviyazhsky wasn't only not angry, but apparently amused by it.
'Well, we are pursuing our economy without these measures,' he said, smiling, 'I, Levin, are they. He pointed out another landowner.
'Yes, Michael Petrovich is coming, and ask him how?
Is this a rational economy? 'The landowner said, obviously wearing the word `rational'.
'I have a simple economy,' said Mikhail Petrovich. 'Thank God.
All I have to do is make the money for the fall gifts ready.
The men come: Father, Father, let's go!
Well, all the guys in the neighborhood are pathetic. Well, if you give me a third, just say, remember, guys, I've helped you, and you'll help when you need to -- planted oatmeal, cleaning hay, reaping, and you're gonna tell me how much you've done.
I mean, they're useless, too, it's true.
Levin, aware of these patriarchal practices long ago, looked at Sviyazhsky and interrupted Mikhail Petrovich, turning again to a dungeon with a gray mustache.
'So what do you think?' 'He asked,' he said, 'how should we run the farm now?
'It's as good as Michael Petrovich: either give the sausage or hire the men; it's possible, but it's the only thing that destroys the common wealth of the state.
Where I have land under serf labour and good farming for nine of myself, it will bring samurai.
Destroyed Russia's emancipation!
Sviyazhsky looked at Levin with smiling eyes, and even made him a slight mocking sign; but Levin did not find the words of the landlord to be funny,' he understood them more than he understood Sviyazhsky.
Much of what the landowner said next, proving why Russia was destroyed by emancipation, seemed very faithful to him, new and incontrovertible to him.
The landlord apparently said his own thought, that it was so rare, and the thought he had been given was not a desire to take on something idle, but a thought that grew out of his living conditions, which he sat out in his village seclusion and thought about from all sides.
'In fact, let us see that all progress is made only by power,' he said, evidently wanting to show that he is not a stranger to education. 'Take the reforms of Peter, Catherine, Alexandra.
Take European history.
All the more so, progress in farming.
Even if it was a potato, it was introduced to us by force.
'Cause you didn't always smell the juice, either.
And they brought her in, perhaps with good fortune, but they must have injected her by force.
Now, in our time, we landlords, under the serf's law, conducted our farm with improvements; and the dryers, the twigs, the dung, and all the tools -- all of us put in our power, and the men first resisted, and then they imitated us.
Now, in the destruction of serf law, we have been taken away from power, and our economy, where it is raised to a high level, must go down to the wildest, most primal state.
So I understand...
'Why not?'
If it is rational, you can hire it,' said Sviyazhsky.
'There is no authority.'
Who am I going to lead him? Let me ask you something.
"This is the labour force, the main element of the economy," Levin thought.
&lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; Workers &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; Workers &gt;. &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt;
'The workers do not want to work well and to work with good tools.
There's only one thing our worker knows -- getting drunk like a pig, drunk, and ruining everything you give him.
Horses are gonna drown, they're gonna rip off good, they're gonna change the tire wheel, they're gonna drink it, they're gonna put a box in the hammer to break it.
He's sick to see anything that's not his.
That's what brought down the whole level of the farm.
The earth is abandoned, sunflowered or distributed to men, and where millions were produced, it produces hundreds of thousands of quarters; the overall wealth has declined.
If they'd done the same thing, and even if they'd done it...
And he began to develop his liberation plan, which would remove these inconveniences.
Levin was not interested in this, but when he finished, Levin returned to his first position and said, turning to Sviyazhsky and trying to summon him to express his serious opinion:
'The fact that the level of the farm is falling and that, in our relations with the workers, it is not possible to lead a profitable sustainable economy is quite right,' he said.
'I don't find it,' said Sviyazhsky very seriously, 'I can only see that we don't know how to run a farm and, on the contrary, that the farm we ran under serf law is not too high, but too low.
We don't have cars, we don't have good livestock, we don't have real control, we don't know how to count.
Ask the owner -- he doesn't know what's good for him, what's bad for him.
'Italian accounting,' said the ironic landowner. 'Whatever you think you're gonna get messed up, there's not gonna be a mistress.'
'Why would they do that?'
The shitty hammer, the Russian top is yours, it's gonna break, and my steam isn't gonna break.
It's a racehorse, what's that? You're gonna get fucked up, and you're gonna get persherons or bitches, and they're not gonna get messed up.
That's it. We need to raise the farm upstairs.
'Would be of what, Nikolai Ivanovich!
You're okay, and I'm a son at the university, so I can't buy any persherons.
'And these are the banks.'
'To sell the last of the hammer?'
No, thank you!
'I do not agree that it is necessary and possible to raise the level of the farm even higher,' said Levin. 'I'm doing it, and I have the means, and I couldn't do anything.
Banks don't know who they're good for.
I've spent at least nothing on the farm, all with the loss: the bastard -- the loss, the car -- the loss.
'That is true,' even laughed at with pleasure, confirmed by the landowner with the gray mustache.
'And I am not alone,' Levin continued, 'I will refer to all the owners who are rationally involved; all, with few exceptions, are doing business for loss.
Well, will you tell me that your farm is profitable? 'O Levin said, and immediately in the sight of Sviyazhsky Levin noticed that fleeting expression of fear that he had noticed when he wanted to go beyond the reception rooms of Sviyazhsky's mind.
Moreover, Levin's question was not entirely helpful.
The owner of tea just told him that they had invited from Moscow this summer a German expert in accounting who, for 500 rubles of remuneration, took their farm into account and found it to be a loss of three thousand rubles.
She didn't remember exactly how much, but I think the German counted to a quarter of a penny.
The landlord, when referring to the benefits of Sviyazhsky's farm, smiled, apparently, knowing what a lady neighbor and chief might have been.
'Maybe it's not good,' replied Sviyazhsky. 'It only proves that I'm a bad owner, or that I'm spending capital on increasing rent.'
'Ah, rent! 'Scaredly cried Levin.' 'Maybe there's a rent in Europe, where the land is better off from its labor, but we're getting worse from our labor, that is, what it will suffer,' so there's no rent.
'How come there's no rent?
It's the law.
'Then we are illegal: the rent will not explain anything to us, but, on the contrary, it will confuse us.
No, you tell me how the teaching of rent can be...
'Would you like sparrows?'
Masha, send us squatters or raspberries here,' he turned to his wife. 'Today the raspberry hangs out wonderfully late.
And in the most pleasant position of the spirit, Sviyazhsky stood up and retreated, apparently assuming that the conversation was over in the very place where Levin felt that he was just beginning.
Without an interviewer, Levin continued his conversation with the landowner, trying to prove to him that all the difficulty was caused by the fact that we did not want to know the characteristics, habits of our worker; but the lander was, like all people, self-identified and isolated, a lack of understanding of another's thoughts, and was particularly partial to his own.
He insisted that a Russian man is a pig and loves swine, and to get him out of pork, it takes power, and it doesn't, it needs a stick, and we've become so liberal that we've replaced a thousand-year-old stick with all sorts of lawyers and opinions where bad-ass stinking men are fed good soup and counted them cube feet of air.
'Why do you think,' said Levin, trying to get back to the question, 'that there can be no attitude towards the workforce in which the work is productive?
'Never will it happen to the Russian people!
There is no authority,' answered the landowner.
'How can new conditions be found? 'Sviyazhsky said, singing squatters, stabbing the papyros, and coming back to the quarrelers.' 'All possible attitudes to the workforce have been defined and explored,' he said. &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &
Batrac, daily, farmer -- and you're not coming out of this.
'But Europe is displeased with these forms.
'I'm not happy and I'm looking for new ones.
And he'll probably find it.
'All I'm saying is,' answered Levin. 'Why don't we look for our side?'
'Cause it's like imagining new techniques for building railways.
They're ready, they're made up.
'But if we don't have them, if they're stupid?' 'Said Levin.'
Again, he saw the expression of fear in the eyes of Sviyazhsky.
'Yes, this is: We throw hats, we find what Europe is looking for!
All this I know, but if you'll excuse me, do you know everything that has been done in Europe on the issue of workers?
'No, it's bad.
'This question is now occupied by the best minds in Europe.
Schultze-Delichevian direction...
Then all this huge literature on the working question, the most liberal Lassalian direction...
The Milgausen device is a fact, you know.
'I have a concept, but very vague.
'No, you're just saying; you certainly know it as well as I do.
I'm not a social professor, of course, but I was interested, and, right, if you're interested, you'll take care of it.
'But what did they come to?'
'It's my fault...'
The lodgers stood up, and Sviyazhsky, again stopping Levin in his unpleasant habit of looking into the behind-rooms of his mind, went out to see his guests.
Levin was insufferably bored this evening with the ladies: he was more concerned than ever about the idea that the displeasure he now had was not his exclusive position, but the general condition of the case in Russia, that the setting up of some kind of worker relationship where they worked, like a man on half the road, was not a dream, but a task that needed to be resolved.
He felt that the task could and should be addressed.
After saying goodbye to the ladies and promising to spend the rest of the day tomorrow in order to ride together to see an interesting failure in the casin forest, Levin entered the master's office before bed to take the books on the working issue that Sviyazhsky had offered him.
Sviyazhsky's office was a huge room with bookcases and two tables, one massive written in the middle of the room, and another round, folded, stared around the lamp, in different languages by the last numerals of newspapers and magazines.
At the desk, there was a counter with gold-lined boxes of various kinds of business.
Sviyazhsky got the books and sat in a rocking chair.
'What are you watching? 'He said to Levin, who stopped at the round table and looked at the magazines.
'Yes, it is a very interesting article,' said Sviyazhsky, about the magazine Levin was holding. 'It turns out,' he added with joy, 'that the main culprit of Poland's division was not Friedrich at all.
Turns out...
And he was very clear about these new, very important and interesting discoveries.
Even though Levin was now the most concerned with the idea of the farm, he listened to the owner and asked himself, "What's in it?
And why, why is he interested in the division of Poland?"
When Sviyazhsky finished, Levin inadvertently asked, "Well, what?" But nothing happened.
It was just interesting what it was.
But Sviyazhsky did not explain and did not find it necessary to explain why he was interested.
'Yes, but I was very interested in the angry landowner,' said Levin, sighing. 'He's smart and he's been telling a lot of truth.
'Oh, come on!
A deep-seated secret serf like all of them! 'Sviyazhsky said.'
'Whose are you the leader...'
'Yes, only I lead them the other way,' said Sviyazhsky, laughing.
'I am very busy with this,' said Levin. 'He's right that it's our business, i.e. rational economy, to think that there's only a mediocre farm like this quiet one, or the simplest one.'
Whose fault is that?
'Of course we do. And then it's not true it's gonna go down.
Vasilčikov's got it.
'The plant...
'But I still don't know what surprises you.
The people are suffering from such a low degree of material and moral development that it is obvious that they must resist anything that is alien to them.
In Europe, the rational economy comes because the people are educated; then we must form a people -- that's all.
'But how can we form a people?'
'It takes three things to form a people: schools, schools, and schools.
'But you yourself said that the people are at a low level of material development. What can schools do?
'You know, you remind me of a joke about a patient's advice: 'You'd like to try a laxative.' &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt -- "Try leech." &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; & &lt; &lt;i&gt;Well, pray to God. &gt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &
So are we.
I say political economy, you say it's worse.
I say socialism -- worse.
Education is worse.
'What will schools do?'
'They will give him other needs.'
'This is something I have never understood,' said Levin with hotness. 'How will schools help the people to improve their wealth?
You say, schools, education will give him new needs.
All the worse, because he won't be able to satisfy them.
And how knowing the addition and subtraction and catechism would help him to improve his material condition, I could never understand.
I met a woman with a baby three nights later and asked her where she was going.
She says, "I went to my grandma's house, the crixus boy was attacked, the way I treated him."
I asked how a grandma treats a cricket.
"The baby sits on chickens and sentences something."
'Well, you say it yourself!
So that she wouldn't wear a cricket to eat, it would take...' said Sviyazhsky with a laughing smile.
'Oh, no! 'Evilly said Levin,' said he, 'it is only a treatment for me like the treatment of the people by schools.
The people are poor and uneducated -- we see it as right as a woman sees a scream because a child screams.
But why this scourge -- poverty and lack of education -- will help schools, just as it is not clear why screaming will help chickens to spread.
We need to help what he's poor from.
'Well, at least you agree with Spencer, whom you don't like so much; he also says that education can be the result of greater well-being and convenience of life, frequent washing, as he says, but not the ability to read and count...'
'Well, I'm very happy or, on the contrary, very not happy that I got involved with Spencer; that's what I've known for a long time.
Schools will not help, but they will benefit from an economic arrangement in which the people are richer, more leisure, and then there will be schools.
'But all over Europe, schools are now compulsory.
'What about you, do you agree with Spencer? 'I asked Levin.'
But in the eyes of Sviyazh, the expression of fear came to light, and he smiled and said,
'No, this crixus is excellent!
Did you hear it?
Levin saw that he would never find a connection between this man's life and his thoughts.
Apparently, he didn't care what his reasoning would do; all he wanted was a process of reasoning. And he was uncomfortable when the reasoning process turned him into a stupid alley.
He was the only one who didn't like it and avoided it by turning the conversation into something nice and fun.
All the impressions of this day, starting with the impression of a man on half the road, which served as the basic basis of all the current experiences and thoughts, were very exciting to Levin.
This sweet Sviyazhsky, who keeps his thoughts to himself only for public consumption and apparently has some other secret for Levin, the foundations of life, and yet he is with a crowd whose name is the legion who directs public opinion to his foreign thoughts; this angry digger, who is absolutely right in his reasoning, tortured by his life, but wronged by his anger towards the whole class and the best class of Russia; his own displeasure with his activities and his vague hope of finding an amendment to all of this has all merged into a sense of internal anxiety and expectation of close resolution.
While remaining in the reserved room, lying on a spring turf, which was suddenly thrown at every movement of his arm and leg, Levin remained awake for a long time.
No conversation with Sviyazhsky, even though many clever things had been said to him, was interested in Levin; but the landowner's arguments required discussion.
Levin involuntarily remembered all his words and corrected his imagination that he had answered him.
"Yeah, I should have told him: you're saying that our farm is going off because the man hates all the improvements and that they have to be driven by power; but if the economy wasn't going at all without these improvements, you'd be right; but it's going, and it only goes where the worker works according to his habits, like an old man's half way.
Yours and our common displeasure proves that we or the workers are to blame.
We've been crumbling in our own way for a long time, in European terms, without asking about the characteristics of the workforce.
Let's try to recognize the labor force not as an ideal labour force, but as a Russian man with his instincts, and we'll do the same.
Imagine -- I should have told him -- that you have a farm like an old man, that you have found a way to interest the workers in the success of the work and that you have found the same middle in the improvements that they recognize -- and you, without exhausting the soil, will get double, triple against the previous one.
Split in half, give half the labor force; the difference you will have will be greater, and the labour will be greater.
And to do that, you have to lower the level of the farm and interest the workers in the success of the farm.
How to do that is a matter of detail, but it is certainly possible.
This thought led Levin to great excitement.
He didn't sleep half the night thinking about details for execution.
He wasn't going to leave the other day, but now he thinks he's going home early in the morning.
In addition, the sister - in - law gave him a sense of shame and remorse in her dress.
Above all, he had to go without delay: he had to offer the men a new project before the winter was planted in order to sow it on new grounds.
He's decided to turn over the old farm.
The execution of Levin's plan presented many challenges; however, he fought as hard as he could and achieved what he did not want, but that he could, without deceiving himself, believe that it was worth the work.
One of the main difficulties was that the farm was already going, that you couldn't stop everything and start over, and you had to get the car back on track.
When he told the orderer his plans the same night he came home, the orderman was pleased to agree with that part of the speech that showed that everything that had been done so far was nonsense and unprofitable.
The orderman said he said it a long time ago, but they didn't want to hear it.
What happened before Levin &apos; s offer -- to take part, as a farmer, along with the workers in the whole business, only expressed great sadness and no definite opinion, and immediately spoke of the need to bring the rest of the rusts tomorrow and send two, so Levin felt that it was now not before.
Talking to men about the same and offering them land under new conditions, he also faced the main difficulty of being so busy with the day's work that they had no time to reflect on the benefits and disadvantages of the enterprise.
The naive man Ivan the snatcher seemed to understand Levin &apos; s offer -- to share the benefits of the cattleyard with his family -- and was quite sympathetic to this enterprise. But when Levin revealed to him future benefits, Ivan's face expressed anxiety and regret that he could not hear the whole thing, and he rushed to find some urgent work: either to pick up the forks by pouring hay out of the daylight, or to pour water, or to purify the manure.
Another difficulty was the invincible mistrust of the peasants so that the goal of the landowner could be something other than to dislodge them as much as possible.
They firmly believed that the real purpose of his (what he told them) would always be what he would not tell them.
And they themselves spoke much, but never said what their real purpose was.
In addition (Levin felt that the galloper was right), the peasants were the first and permanent condition of any agreement to ensure that they were not forced into any new practices and use of new tools.
They agreed that the plow was better, that the quarry worked better, but they found thousands of reasons why they could not use either, and although he was convinced that he needed to lower the level of the farm, he felt sorry for the improvements, the benefits of which were so obvious.
But despite all these difficulties, he got his way, and by the fall it went, or at least it seemed to him.
At first Levin thought of giving up the whole farm, as it was, to men, workers, and orderors under new comrades' conditions, but very soon he became convinced that it was impossible, and decided to divide the farm.
The cattle yard, gardens, gardens, mowers, fields divided into several divisions were to produce separate articles.
Naïve Ivan, best of all, seemed to Levin, who understood the case by picking up an artifact, mostly from his family, became a member of the cattleyard.
An eight-year-old field was taken with the help of a smart carpenter, Fedor Rezunov, by six men's families on new social grounds, and Shuraev's man removed all the gardens under the same conditions.
The rest was still the same, but these three articles were the beginning of the new device and were well occupied by Levin.
It is true that the cattleyard was still no better off than it was before, and Ivan was strongly opposed to the warm management of cows and cream oil, arguing that the cow would need less food in the cold and that buttered oil would be more sparring, and he demanded wages, as in the old days, and was not interested in the fact that the money he received was not a wage, but to give him a share of the junk ahead.
It is true that Fedor Resunov's company did not move under the ploughs, as was agreed, to justify the short time.
It is true that the men of this company, although they agreed to conduct this case on new grounds, called this land not common, but common, and more than once both the men of this art and Resunov themselves said to Levin: "You would get money for the land, and you would be dead and we would be set free."
In addition, these men put aside, under various pretexts, the construction of cattleyards and rigas on this land and dragged them back to winter.
It's true that Shuraev's gardens were taken from him and he wanted to give them to the men. He clearly misread the conditions under which the land had been given to him, and he seemed to have deliberately misunderstanded it.
True, often speaking to men and explaining to them all the benefits of the business, Levin felt that men listened only to his voice and knew firmly that whatever he said, they would not deceive him.
In particular, he felt it when he spoke. With the smartest of men, Resunov, and noticed that game in Resunov's eyes, which clearly showed the ridicule of Levin and the firm belief that if anyone was cheated, it wasn't him, Resunov.
Yet, despite all this, Levin thought that the matter was going on and that, by strictly keeping score and insisting on his own, he would prove to them in the future the benefits of such a device and that the matter would then proceed on its own.
These things, along with the rest of the household left in his hands, along with the work of the office on his book, occupied Levin's summer so much that he hardly ever went hunting.
He learned at the end of August that the Oblons had left for Moscow, from the man who had brought the saddle back.
He felt that, by failing to respond to the letter of Daria Alexandrovna, his rudeness, about which he could not remember without the paint of shame, he had burned his ships and would never go to them.
He did the same to Sviyazhsky when he left without saying goodbye.
But he's never gonna go to them either.
He didn't care anymore.
The work of the new structure of his household has occupied him in a way that has never been the case in his life.
He reread the books given to him by Sviyazhsky and, after writing what he did not have, reread the political, economic and socialist books on the subject and, as he expected, found nothing to do with what he had done.
In political and economic books, in Mille, for example, which he studied first with great heat, hoping to find a solution to his questions, he found laws that had been removed from the European economy; but he did not see why those laws, which were not applicable to Russia, should be common.
He also saw the same in socialist books: either these were great fantasies, but the unapplicable ones he was attracted to while he was still a student -- or amendments to fix the situation in which Europe was set up and with which the farming business in Russia had nothing to do with it.
Political economy said that the laws that developed and developed Europe's wealth were universal and unmistakable.
Socialist teaching has said that development under these laws leads to destruction.
Neither gave only an answer, but did not give the slightest hint of what he, Levin, and all Russian men and landowners, would do with their millions of hands and tithes to make them the most productive for the general welfare.
Once he had taken up the case, he had read in good faith everything relating to his subject and intended to travel abroad in the autumn to examine the case on the ground so that it would no longer happen to him on the subject of what had so often happened to him on various issues.
As soon as he began to understand the person's thoughts and express himself, suddenly he was told, "And Kaufman and John and Dubois and Micheli?
You didn't read them.
Read it; they have elaborated it."
He now saw clearly that Kaufman and Micheli had nothing to say to him.
He knew what he wanted.
He saw that Russia has beautiful lands, beautiful workers, and that in some cases, like a man on half the road, workers and land produce many, but in most cases, when European capital is invested, they produce little, and that it is only an excuse, that workers want to work and work well by themselves, and that this opposition is not accidental, but permanent, founded in the spirit of the people.
He thought that the Russian people, who had been called upon to plant and process vast unoccupied areas, consciously, until all the lands were occupied, held on to the necessary techniques to do so, and that those techniques were not as bad as they normally thought.
And he wanted to prove it theoretically in a book and in practice in his own household.
At the end of September, the woods for the construction of the yard were removed on the ground and the oil from the carpets was sold and the young lady was separated.
In practice, the farm was doing well, or at least that's what Levin thought.
In order to explain the whole case in theory and finish the essay, which, according to Levin &apos; s dreams, would not only have to make a coup in political economy, but would completely destroy that science and begin a new science -- people &apos; s relationship to the ground -- it would only have to go abroad and explore on the ground everything that had been done in that direction, and find convincing proof that all that was done there was not what was needed.
Levin was only waiting for wheat supplies to get money and travel abroad.
But the rains did not allow the remaining bread and potatoes to be removed and stopped all the work and even the supply of wheat.
There was mud on the roads; two mills were flooded, and the weather was getting worse and worse.
On 30 September, the sun appeared early in the morning, and in hope of the weather, Levin became determined to prepare for his departure.
He told me to fill the wheat, sent an orderman to the merchant. To get the money, and I went to the house to make the last orders before I left.
After reworking, however, all the cases that were wet from the creeks, which were covered by the skin behind his neck and behind his tibia, but in the brightest and most arousing state of spirit, Levin returned to his home by the evening.
It was even worse by the evening, and the croup was so painful that all the wet, shaking ears and head of the horse that it was walking side by side; but Levin was well under the bastard, and he had fun looking around him at the murky creeks running on the wheels, on the drops hanging on every skinny bitch, on the white spot of the unbroken croup on the boards of the bridge, and on the juicy, still fleshy leaf of the vase that fell on the thick layer around the undressed tree.
Despite the gloom of nature, he felt particularly excited.
Talking to men in a remote village showed that they were beginning to get used to their relationships.
He apparently approved of Levin's plan and offered to join the animal-buying partnership.
"All I have to do is work hard, and I am going to do my job," Levin thought, "and working and working is what's going on.
It's not a personal matter, it's a question of the common good.
The whole economy, above all, the situation of the entire people, must change completely. Instead of poverty, shared wealth, satisfaction; rather than hostility, harmony and the bond of interests.
In short, the revolution is bloodless, but the greatest revolution, first in the small circle of our county, then the province, Russia, the whole world. Because the thought of fairness cannot but be fruitful.
Yeah, it's a goal that's worth working for.
And that it's me, Kostya Levin, the one... who came to the ball with a black tie and who was denied by Scherbatsky and who's so pathetic and pathetic to himself, that doesn't prove anything.
I'm sure Franklin felt just as worthless and didn't trust himself, remembering everything.
It doesn't mean anything.
And he had his own Agatha Michailovna, whom he believed in his plans."
In such thoughts Levin had already come to his house in the dark.
The orderman, who was on his way to the merchant, came and brought some of the money for wheat.
The condition with the janitor was made, and on the way the orderman learned that the bread was in the field everywhere, so that the unscathed ones of their hundred and sixty copens were nothing compared to what others had.
After having lunch, Levin sat down, as usual, with a book in his chair and, while reading, kept thinking about his coming trip in connection with the book.
Today, he became particularly aware of the importance of his work, and he himself developed entire periods of his mind that express the essence of his thoughts.
"It has to be written down," he thought. 'This should be a brief introduction, which I had previously considered unnecessary.'
He stood up to go to the desk, and Laska, lying at his feet, pulled up, too, and looked back at him, as if asking where to go.
But there was no time to write down, because the chiefs came together, and Levin went out to them in the front.
After the outfit, that is, the instructions for tomorrow's work, and the reception of all the men before him, Levin went into the office and sat down to work.
Laska lay under the table; Agatha Mikhaylovna, with a stocking, sat in her seat.
After writing a few times, Levin suddenly remembered Kitty with extraordinary life, her refusal, and her last meeting.
He got up and started walking around the room.
'There is nothing to miss,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna. 'Well, why are you sitting at home?
We'd go for warm water, we'd all be happy.
'I'm on my way the day after tomorrow, Agatha Mikhaylovna. Let's get this over with.
'Well, what's your business!
How few men have you rewarded?
And they say, "Your lord will receive mercy from the king."
What do you care about men?
'I don't care about them, I do for myself.
Agatha Mikhaylovna knew all the details of Levin's business plans.
Levin often expressed his thoughts with all the fine things and often argued with her and disagreed with her explanations.
But now she's totally different about what he said to her.
'The most important thing to think about is her soul, a well-known case,' she said with a sigh. 'Won Parmen Denisch, a gift that the illiterate had been, and so died that God gave to everyone,' she said about the recently-dead courthouse. 'We were, we were, we were.'
'I'm not talking about that,' he said. 'I say what I do for my own good.
It's better for me if men work better.
'Oh, no matter what you do, he's lazy, so it's gonna be through the stabbing of the deck.
If there's a conscience, it's working, and it's not -- there's nothing you can do.
'Yeah, because you say it yourself, Ivan is better to go after the cattle.'
'I say one thing,' replied Agatha Mikhaylovna, apparently not by accident, but with strict consistency of thought, 'you need to get married, that's what!
Agatha Michailovna's reference to the very thing he was just thinking about upset him and insulted him.
Levin frowned and, without answering her, sat down again for his work, repeating to himself all that he had thought of the importance of this work.
Sometimes he listened quietly to the sound of Agatha Mikhaylovna's beeps, and when he remembered something he didn't want to remember, he wrinkled again.
At nine o'clock, there was a bell and a deaf swing of the body in the mud.
'Well, here come the guests, and it won't be boring,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna, standing up and heading for the door.
But Levin ran her over.
His work wasn't going on now, and he was happy with any guest...
When Levin ran to half the stairs, he heard the sound of the stroke before him; but he heard it unclear because of the sound of his steps and hoped that he had made a mistake; then he saw all the long, bony, familiar figure, and it seemed no longer possible to be deceived, but he was still hoping that he was wrong and that this long man, who took off his coat and coughed off, was not Nikolai's brother.
Levin loved his brother, but being with him was always a torment.
Now that Levin, under the influence of Agatha Mikhaylovna's thoughts and reminders, was in an unclear, confused state, his upcoming date with his brother seemed particularly difficult.
Instead of the guest of a happy, healthy, foreign man who he hoped would entertain him in his mental confusion, he had to see a brother who understood him through, who would bring him all the soulful thoughts, and would make him speak well.
That's not what he wanted.
Being angry at himself for this nasty feeling, Levin fled to the front. As soon as he saw his brother nearby, this sense of personal frustration immediately disappeared and was replaced by pity.
Fearless as it may have been, Nikolai's brother had lost his skin and his pain before, and now he's lost weight, and he's worn out.
It was a skeleton covered with skin.
He stood in the front, wriggling with his long, thin neck and tearing off the scarf, and smiled in a strange way.
When Levin saw that smile, humble and obedient, he felt that the convulsions were squeezing his throat.
'Here, I have come to you,' said Nikolai with a deaf voice, not looking down on his brother's face for a second. 'I wanted it a long time ago, but it wasn't well.
Now I am very well,' he said, rubbing his beard with large thin palms.
'Yes, yes! 'Saying to Levin.'
And he was even more afraid when he felt with his lips the dryness of his brother's body and saw his large, strangely glowing eyes near him.
A few weeks before that, Levin wrote to his brother that at the time of the sale of the little piece that remained in their house for the week, the brother now had his share, about 2,000 rubles.
Nikolai said that he had now come to get that money and, above all, to go to his nest, touch the ground to gain the strength, like rich men, for the work to be done.
Despite the increased stools, despite its amazing growth, its movements, as usual, were fast and prodigious.
Levin took him to the office.
The brother dressed especially carefully, as he had never done before, brushed his rare straight hair and smiled and entered upstairs.
He was in the sweetest and most funny spirit that Levin often remembered when he was a child. He even mentioned Sergei Ivanovich without anger.
When he saw Agatha Mikhaylovna, he joked with her and asked about the old servants. The news of Parmen Denisic's death has had a distasteful effect on him.
He was apprehensive on his face; but immediately he recovered.
'He was old enough,' he said, and changed the conversation. 'Yes, I'll stay with you for a month, two, and then to Moscow.'
You know, I've been promised a seat, and I'm on duty.
Now I will build my life in a very different way,' he continued. 'You know, I deleted this woman.
'Mary Nikolaevna?'
What for?
'Ah, she's a nasty woman!
I've been in a lot of trouble. 'But he did not tell me what the troubles were.'
He couldn't say that he chased Maria Nikolaevna because the tea was weak, most important of all because she cared for him like she was sick. 'Then, in general, now I want to change my life completely.'
I've done stupid things, of course, like everyone else, but it's the last thing I do, and I don't feel sorry for him.
There would be health, and health, thank God, has recovered.
Levin listened and made up, and couldn't figure out what to say.
Nikolai probably felt the same way; he began to question his brother about his works; and Levin was happy to speak of himself, because he could speak without pretending. He told his brother his plans and actions.
My brother listened, but apparently he wasn't interested.
The two men were so close and close to each other that the slightest movement, the tone of the voice, spoke for all of us more than anything that could be said in words.
Now they both had one thought -- the disease and the nearness of Nikolai's death, which was overwhelming everything else.
But neither dared to speak of it, so whatever they said without saying that one occupied them, it was all a lie.
Levin was never so happy that the evening was over and had to go to sleep.
Never with any outsider, nor on any official visit, was he as impersonal and false as he was today.
And consciousness and remorse for this unnaturality made him even more unnatural.
He wanted to cry over his dying beloved brother, and he had to listen and talk about how he would live.
Since the house was damp and the room alone was drowned, Levin put his brother to sleep in his own bedroom behind the partition.
My brother went to bed and -- he slept or didn't, but as a sick man, he turned, coughed, and when he couldn't cough, he groaned.
Sometimes when he sighed hard, he said, "Oh, my God!"
Sometimes when his wetness strangled him, he said, "Oh! Shit!"
Levin stayed up for a long time listening to him.
Levin's thoughts were diverse, but the end of all thoughts was one: death.
Death, the inevitable end of all things, for the first time with irresistible force, appeared to him.
And this death, which here, in this beloved brother, is a groaning and indifferent to the habit of calling that god, the devil, was not as far away as he thought it would be.
She was in him, too -- he felt it.
Not now, so tomorrow, not tomorrow, so in thirty years, doesn't it?
And what was this inevitable death -- not only did he not know, not only did he never think about it, but he did not know or dare think about it.
"I'm working, I want to do something, and I forgot it's gonna end up dead."
He sat on the bed in the dark, trembling and hugging his knees, and, by holding his breath from the stress of his mind, he thought.
But the more he made his point, the more it became clear to him that it was certainly so that he really forgot, he looked at one little thing in his life -- that death would come and it would end, that nothing should have started and that there was no way to help it. Yeah, it was terrible, but it was.
"I'm still alive.
Now what shall we do, what shall we do?" 'He spoke with despair.'
He lit the candle and carefully stood up and went to the mirror and began to look at his face and hair.
Yeah, there was gray hair in the temples. He opened his mouth.
The back teeth began to deform.
He exposed his muscley hands.
Yeah, a lot of strength.
But Nicolenka, who was breathing the rest of her lungs, also had a healthy body. And suddenly he remembered when they went to bed together with their children and waited only for Fedor Bogdanich to come out of the door to throw pillows at each other and laugh at each other, to laugh unstoppablely, so that even fear of Fedor Bogdanich could not stop it from over the edge, smashing and smug consciousness of the happiness of life.
"And now this curled-up empty breast... and I, who doesn't know why or what's gonna happen to me..."
'Hah!
Mha!
Shit!
What do you care if you're awake? 'He cried out his brother's voice.
'Okay, I don't know, insomnia.
'And I slept well, and now I have no sweat.'
Look, feel your shirt. No sweat?
Levin felt, went behind the partition, put out the candle, but remained awake for a long time.
He just learned a little bit about how to live, how a new, insoluble question -- death -- appeared.
"Well, he dies, well, he dies by spring, well, how do you help him?
What can I tell him?
What do I know about this?
I forgot it was there."
Levin has long commented that when people are embarrassed by their excessive yield, obedience, it will very soon become intolerable for them to be overly demanding and picky.
He felt it would happen to his brother.
Indeed, Brother Nikolai's mildness did not last long.
From the other morning, he became annoying and rashly picked on his brother, touching him for the sickest places.
Levin felt guilty and could not correct it.
He felt that if they hadn't both been pretending to say what they liked to say, which is just what they think and feel, they'd just look into each other's eyes, and Constantin would have said, "You're gonna die, you're gonna die, you're gonna die!" 'And Nikolai would only say, 'I know I'm going to die, but I'm afraid, I'm afraid, I'm afraid, I'm afraid!'
And they wouldn't have said anything else if they only liked to talk.
But it was impossible to live, and that's why Konstantin tried to do what he's been trying to do all his life, and he didn't know how to do, and what he was watching. Many people were so good at doing what they couldn't live without: he tried to say things that weren't what he thought, and he always felt that it was fake, that his brother caught up in it and was annoyed by it.
On the third day, Nikolai called his brother to tell him his plan again and started not only condemning him but deliberately mixing him with communism.
'You just took someone else's thought, but you disfigured it, and you want to attach it to the unappreciated.'
'I'm telling you, it has nothing to do with anything.
They reject the fairness of property, capital, inheritance, and I, without denying this main incentive (Levin was disgusted by the fact that he used such words, but since he became interested in his work, he has willingly used more and more non-Russian words), I only want to regulate work.
'That is, you took someone else's thought, cut off everything that formed her strength, and you want to make sure it's something new,' said Nikolai, pissed off in his tie.
'My thought has nothing to do with...'
&lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &
Maybe it's utopia. But let's say you can do it from the past tabula rasa: no property, no family, work is done, but you have nothing...
'Why are you mixing?' I was never a communist.
'And I have been, and I find that it is premature, but reasonable and has a future like Christianity in the first centuries.
'I only believe that labour must be seen from a natural test point of view, i.e. to study it, to recognize its properties, and...
'This is totally in vain.
This force finds itself, by its degree of development, a well-known way of doing things.
There were slaves everywhere, then metheyers; and we've got work to do, we've got rent, we've got tramp work -- what are you looking for?
Levin suddenly became hot with these words, because deep down he was afraid that it was true -- the truth is that he wanted to balance communism with certain forms and that it was hardly possible.
'I seek the means to work productively for myself and for the worker.
I want to arrange...' he answered hotly.
'You don't want to do anything; it's just, as you've lived your whole life, you want to be original, to show that you're not just exploiting men, but with an idea.'
'Well, you think so,' and leave it! 'He answered Levin, feeling that the muscle of his left cheek was inexorably jumping.'
'You had no conviction, and you had no conviction, but only to comfort yourself with your ego.'
'Well, that's fine, and leave me alone!
'And I will!
It's about time, and get the hell out of here!
And I'm so sorry I came!
No matter how much Levin tried to calm his brother, Nikolai didn't want to hear anything, said that it was much better to separate, and Konstantin saw that his brother had simply become insufferable.
Nikolai was about to leave when Konstantin came back to him and insanely apologized if he had insulted him.
'Ah, generosity! 'Cause Nikolai said, and smiled. 'If you want to be right, I can give you pleasure.'
You're right, but I'm gonna leave!
Just before he left, Nikolai kissed him and said, suddenly taking a weird look at his brother seriously:
'Don't remember me, Kostya! 'And his voice shuddered.
Those were the only words that were spoken truthfully.
Levin realized that these words meant, "You see and you know I'm bad, and maybe we won't see each other again."
Levin understood this, and tears burst out of his eyes.
He kissed his brother again, but he couldn't and could not tell him.
On the third day after his brother left, Levin went abroad.
When Levin met the railway with Shcherbatsky, Kitty's cousin, he was very surprised by his grimness.
'What is wrong with you?' asked Shcherbatsky.
'Nothing, so there's not much fun in the world.
'How little?' Let's go to Paris with me instead of some Mulouse.
Look how fun it is!
'No, I'm done. I have to die.
'That's the thing!' said Scherbatsky, laughing. 'I was just about to begin.
'And that's what I thought recently, but now I know I'm about to die.
Levin said what he had really thought about lately.
He saw nothing but death or nearness to it. But what he did was all the more so for him.
You should have lived your life sometime before death.
The darkness covered everything for him; but it was because of that darkness that he felt that the only leading thread in the darkness was his work, and he grasped and held on to it.
PART FOUR
Karenina, husband and wife, continued to live in the same house, met every day, but were completely alien to each other.
Alexei Alexandrovich made it a rule to see his wife every day so that the servants would not have the right to make assumptions but to avoid eating at home.
Vronsky never visited the house of Alexei Alexandrovich, but Anna saw him outside the house, and the husband knew it.
The situation was painful for all three, and none of them would have been able to live a day without the expectation that it would change and that it would only be a temporary hardship that would pass.
Alexey Alexandrovich expected this passion to pass away, just like everything goes away, that everything about it will be forgotten and his name will remain undignified.
Anna, on whom the situation depended and for whom it was the most painful of all, carried it because she not only waited but was firmly convinced that all of it would soon be released and understood.
She was determined not to know that she would untie the situation, but she was sure it would come very soon.
He was also waiting for something independent of him to explain all the difficulties.
In the middle of winter, Wronsky spent a very boring week.
He was assigned to a foreign prince who had come to Petersburg and had to show him the sights of Petersburg.
He himself was represented, and he also had the art of maintaining himself with dignity and respect and had a habit of dealing with such persons; that was why he was attached to the prince.
But his duty seemed very heavy to him.
The prince wanted nothing to be missed that he would be asked at home if he had seen it in Russia; and he himself wanted to enjoy as much Russian pleasure as possible. He was obliged to lead him both ways.
In the mornings, they visited sightseeings, and in the evenings, they enjoyed national pleasures.
The prince enjoyed extraordinary health even between the princes; and gymnastics and good care for his body he made himself so strong that, despite the excesses he enjoyed, he was fresh as a large green, glossy Dutch cucumber.
The prince traveled extensively and found that one of the main benefits of the current ease of communication was the accessibility of national pleasures.
He was in Spain, where he gave serenades and drew close to a Spanish woman playing mandolin.
Hemez was killed in Switzerland. In England, he rode a red fracco across fences and killed 200 pheasants on a bet.
In Turkey he was in a harem, in India he rode an elephant, and now in Russia he wanted to taste all Russian pleasures.
It was worth a lot of effort to distribute all the Russian pleasures offered to the prince by various individuals. There were rats, pancakes, bear hunts, threes, gypsies, and chutes with Russian dishes.
And the prince took the Russian spirit with extreme ease, beat the trays with the dishes, put the gypsy on her knees, and seemed to ask, ‘ What else, or is that the whole Russian spirit? '
In fact, of all the Russian pleasures, the prince liked the French actresses, the ballet dancer and the white seal champagne most.
He had a habit of princes, but because he had changed himself lately, or because he was too close to that prince, this week seemed to him to be a terrible one. He's been feeling this whole week, like a person who'd be attached to a dangerous lunatic, afraid of a lunatic and, together, close to him, he'd be afraid of his mind as well.
He constantly felt the need, not for a second, to weaken the tone of strict official respect in order not to be insulted.
The Prince's way of dealing with the very people who, to the surprise of Wronski, had gone out of their way to give him Russian pleasures was contemptible.
His judgment about Russian women, which he wanted to study, has often led him to blush in anger.
The main reason why the prince was especially hard was to see himself in him. And what he saw in that mirror didn't flatter his ego.
He was very stupid, and he was very confident, and he was very healthy, and he was very clean, and nothing else.
He was a gentleman -- it was true, and Wronsky couldn't deny it.
He was a roven and unsatisfied with superiors, free and easy to deal with equals, and contemptiblely kind to the lower ones.
He himself was such and considered it to be a great dignity; but with regard to the prince, he was inferior, and that contempt for him was an outrage to him.
"Stupid beef! Am I like this?" 'He thought.'
Anyway, when he said goodbye to him on the seventh day, before he left for Moscow, and received his thanks, he was happy to get rid of this awkward position and unpleasant mirror.
He said goodbye to him at the station, coming back from a bear hunt, where they had a show of Russian youth all night.
When he returned home, he found a note from Anna.
She wrote, "I'm sick and unhappy.
I can't leave, but I can't miss you.
Come tonight. "Alexei Alexandrovich goes to the council at seven o'clock and stays until ten o'clock."
After thinking for a moment about the strangeness of her calling him directly to her, despite her husband's request not to accept him, he decided that he would go.
He was made colonel in this winter, came out of the regiment and lived alone.
After having breakfast, he immediately lay on the couch, and at five minutes' notice of the ugly scenes he had seen in recent days, he was confused and connected with the image of Anna and the man who had played an important role in the bear hunt; and he fell asleep.
He woke up in the dark, trembling with fear, and lighted the candle in haste.
"What is it? What?
What's the scary thing I saw in my sleep?
Yeah, yeah. Man on the back, I think he's a little, dirty, with a fucked-up beard, doing something upside down and all of a sudden talking some weird words in French.
Yes, there was nothing else in his dream,' he said to himself. 'But why was it so terrible?'
He vividly remembered the man again and the incomprehensible French words that the man had spoken, and the horror ran through his back cold.
"What nonsense!" 'I thought and looked at my watch.'
It was half past nine.
He called a man, got dressed in a hurry, and went out on the porch, completely forgot about the dream, and all he had to do was be late.
As he drove up to Karen's porch, he looked at the watch and saw what was ten minutes past nine.
A tall, small carriage, loaded with a couple of grays, stood at the door.
He recognized Anna's carriage. "She's coming to me," he thought, "and it would have been better.
I hate to come into this house.
Still, I can't hide,' he said to himself, and with the techniques he had learned since childhood, the man who had nothing to be ashamed of came out of the sleigh and came to the door.
The door opened, and the doorman with a stick on his hand called the carriage.
Although he was not used to the details, he noticed now a surprising expression with which the doorman looked at him.
At the very door, he almost ran into Alexey Alexandrovich.
The gas horn lit a bloodless, shoved face under a black hat and a white tie shiny because of the coat beaver.
Karen's immobile, dull eyes leapt toward the face of Vronski.
He bowed down, and Alexey Alexandrovich, chewing his mouth, raised his hand to the hat and passed.
He saw him not looking back, sitting in a carriage, taking a blanket and binoculars out the window and running away.
Vronsky entered the front.
His eyebrows were frowned upon, and his eyes glittered with evil and proud glitter.
"Here's the situation!" he thought. 'If he fought, stood up for his honor, I could act, express my feelings; but this weakness or depravity...'
He puts me in the position of a liar, and I do not want to be, nor do I want to be."
Since his explanation with Anna, there has been a great deal of change in the garden of Wrath.
He involuntarily submitted to the weakness of Anna, who had given up everything to him and expected only him to decide her fate, and went on to submit to everything for a long time to stop thinking that this connection might end, as he thought at the time.
His honest plans turned back on him again, and he felt that he had come out of the circle of activity in which everything had been defined and had given up all his senses, and that feeling had made him more and more attached to her.
Even in the front, he heard her moving steps. He realized she was waiting for him, listening, and now she's back in the living room.
'No! 'She cried when she saw him, and at the first sound of her voice tears came into her eyes,' no, if this continues, it will be much more, much earlier!
'What, my friend?
'What?
I'm waiting, I'm suffering, an hour, two...
No, I won't!
I can't fight with you.
Right, you couldn't.
No, I won't!
She put both hands on his shoulders, and for a long time she looked at him with a deep, enthralled, and together with a test glance.
She studied his face in a time she hadn't seen him.
She, like every date, had one imaginary idea of him (unmatched, impossible in reality) with him as he was.
'Did you meet him? 'She asked when they sat by the table under the lamp.' 'This is your punishment for being late.
'Yes, but how?
Was he supposed to be on the board?
'He was and came back and went out again.
But that's okay. Don't talk about it.
Where have you been?
All with the prince?
She knew all the details of his life.
He wanted to say that he stayed up all night and fell asleep, but when he looked at her excited and happy face, he felt ashamed.
And he said he had to go and report the Prince's departure.
'But now it's over?
Did he leave?
'Thank God it's over.
You wouldn't believe how much I couldn't bear it.
'Why?'
'Cause it's the eternal life of all of you young men,' she said, with her eyebrows full, and following the knitting that was on the table, she started, without looking at him, to pull a hook out of him.
'I have long left this life,' he said, wondering at the change in her face and trying to understand its meaning. 'And I confess,' he said, with a smile of his dense white teeth, 'I looked like a mirror this week looking at this life, and I hated it.
She was knitting, not knitting, but looking at him with a strange, shiny, unfriendly look.
'Lisa came to see me this morning -- they are not afraid to come to me despite Countess Lydia Ivanovna --' she said, 'and told me about your Finnish evening.
That's disgusting!
'I just wanted to say that...
She interrupted him.
'Therese was the one you knew before?
'I mean...
'How awful you are, men!
How you can't imagine that a woman can't forget it,' she said, getting hotter and more and thus revealing to him the cause of her irritation. 'In particular a woman who cannot know your life.'
What do I know? What did I know? 'She said,' what you will tell me.
And how do I know if you were telling me the truth...
'Anna! You insult me.
Don't you believe me?
Didn't I tell you I didn't have a thought I didn't tell you?
'Yes, yes,' she said, apparently trying to drive away jealous thoughts. 'But if you knew how hard it is for me!
I believe you, I believe you...
So what did you say?
But he couldn't remember right away what he wanted to say.
These attacks of jealousy, which have been more and more frequent in recent times, have horrified him and, as he tried to hide it, have cooled him for her, even though he knew that the cause of jealousy was his love for him.
How many times did he tell himself that her love was happy; and she loved him, as a woman could love, for whom love outweighed all the good things in life -- and he was far further away from happiness than when he followed her from Moscow.
At that time, he thought he was unhappy, but happiness was ahead; now he felt that the best happiness was already back.
She wasn't at all the way he saw her the first time.
And morally and physically she's changed to the worst.
She expanded, and in her face, while she was talking about an actress, there was an evil expression that distorted her face.
He looked at her as a man looked at a broken and shrivelled flower in which he could hardly recognize the beauty for which he had ripped and destroyed him.
And even though he felt that when his love was stronger, he could, if he wanted to, rip that love out of his heart, but now that, as at that moment, he felt that he did not feel love for her, he knew that his connection with her could not be broken.
'Well, well, what did you want to tell me about the prince?
I banished the devil,' she added.
It was called jealousy between them. 'Yes, so what did you start talking about the prince?
Why was it so hard for you?
'Oh, it is unbearable!' he said, seeking to catch the thread of lost thought. 'He does not benefit from a close acquaintance.
If he were to be identified, he was a well-fed animal who received the first medals at the exhibition, and nothing more,' he said with a displeasure, interested in her.
'No, how?' 'She objected.' 'Cause he's seen a lot of things, wasn't he educated?
&lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;This is a completely different education -- their education.
It can be seen that it is designed only to have the right to despise education, as they all despise, except animals of pleasure.
'You all love these animals pleasures,' she said, and again he noticed a dark look that avoided them.
'Why are you so protective of him? 'He said, smiling.'
'I don't defend, I don't care at all; but I think if you didn't like these pleasures yourself, you could have refused.'
And it gives you pleasure to look at Theresa in Eve's suit...
'Once again, again, the devil!' took the hand that she had put on the table, and kissed her, said Vronsky.
'Yes, but I can't!
You don't know how hard I've been waiting for you!
I don't think I'm jealous.
I'm not jealous; I believe you when you're here with me, but when you're on your own leading a life I don't understand...
She swerved away from him, finally pulled the hook out of the knitting, and quickly, with her index finger, she began to curl up one by one loop of white, shining under the light of the wool lamp, and quickly, nervously turned the thin brush into a stitched sleeve.
'What do you mean?' Where did you meet Alexei Alexandrovich? &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; suddenly, suddenly, her voice was not naturalally ringing.&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &
'We bumped into each other at the door.
'And he bowed to you like that?
She drew out her face and, with her eyes closed, quickly changed her face, folded her hands, and in her beautiful face he suddenly saw the very look on his face with which he was bowed to.
He smiled, and she laughed funnyly at that cute chest laugh, which was one of her greatest charms.
'I do not understand him with determination,' he said. 'If, after your explanation, he had broken up with you, if he had called me to a duel... but this I do not understand, how can he bear such a situation?' He's suffering, I can tell.
'He? 'She said with laughter.' 'He is perfectly pleased.
'Why do we all suffer when everything could be so good?'
'Not him.
Don't I know him, the lie he's fed up with?
Can you feel anything, live like he lives with me?
He doesn't understand anything, he doesn't feel anything.
Can a man who feels anything live with his criminal wife in the same house?
Can you talk to her? You tell her?
And again, she introduced him involuntarily. "You, ma chore, you, Anna!"
'It is not a man, it is not a man, it is a doll!
No one knows, but I do.
Oh, if I were in his shoes, I'd kill him a long time ago, I'd tear this wife like me apart, not say, you, ma shere, Anna.
It's not a man, it's a ministerial car.
He doesn't understand that I'm your wife, that he's a stranger, that he's a stranger...
'You are wrong and wrong, my friend,' he said, trying to calm her down. 'But still, let's not talk about him.
Tell me, what were you doing?
What's wrong with you?
What is this disease, and what did the doctor say?
She looked at him with ridiculous joy.
Apparently, she found other funny and ugly sides in her husband and waited for time to express them.
'I know it's not a disease, it's your situation.
When will it be?
The funny glitter out in her eyes, but the other smile -- the knowledge of something unknown to him and the quiet sadness -- replaced her former expression.
'Soon, soon.'
You said our situation was painful, that we had to untie it.
If you knew how hard it is for me, what I would give to love you freely and with courage!
I wouldn't be tormented and you wouldn't be jealous...
And it's gonna be soon, but it's not what we think.
And when she thought about how it would be, she felt so sorry for herself that tears came to her eyes, and she couldn't continue.
She put a shiny ring under the lamp and a white hand on his sleeve.
'It won't be what we think it will be.'
I didn't want to tell you that, but you made me.
Soon, it's all gonna break up, and we're all gonna calm down, and we're not gonna be tormented anymore.
'I do not understand,' he said, understanding.
'Did you ask when?
Soon. And I can't take it.
Don't interrupt! 'And she hastened to speak.' 'I know that, and I know it right. I'm gonna die, and I'm really glad I'm gonna die and get rid of myself and you.
Tears flowed out of her eyes; he leaned toward her hand, and began kissing, seeking to hide his excitement, which he knew had no basis, but he could not overcome it.
'That's it, that's better,' she said, shaking his hand with a strong movement. 'Here's one thing, one thing we have left.
He remembered and raised his head.
'What nonsense! What pointless nonsense are you talking about?
'No, it's true.
'What, what's true?
'That I would die.' I had a dream.
'Sleep? 'Wronsky repeated, and instantly remembered his man in his sleep.
'Yes, dream,' she said. 'I've had this dream a long time ago.
I saw that I ran into my bedroom, that I had to take something there, learn something; you know how it is in a dream,' she said with horror, opening her eyes wide; and there was something in the bedroom, in the corner.
'Oh, what nonsense!
How can you believe...
But she wouldn't let me kill her.
What she said was too important to her.
'And it turned, and I see it is a man with a fried beard, small and scary.'
I wanted to run, but he leaned over the bag and his hands were sniffing around...
She pictured him digging in a bag. The horror was on her face.
And when he remembered his dream, he felt the same horror that filled his soul.
'He digs and sentences in French, soon and soon, and, you know, graces: 'Il fat le battre le fer, le broyer, le peter...'
And I wanted to wake up, wake up... but I woke up in my sleep.
And I started asking myself what that meant. And Corney says to me, "You're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die, you're going to die."
And I woke up...
'What nonsense, what nonsense!' he said, but he himself felt that there was no credibility in his voice.
'But let's not talk.
Call me and I'll give you some tea.
Wait, I'm not gonna...
But suddenly she stopped.
The expression of her face changed instantly.
Terror and excitement were suddenly replaced by an expression of quiet, serious, and blissful attention.
He couldn't understand the significance of that change.
She heard the movement of her new life.
Alexey Alexandrovich went to the Italian opera on his porch with Wronski, as he intended.
He sat there two acts and saw everyone he needed.
When he returned home, he carefully examined the hanger and, noting that there was no military coat, he usually went to his place. But, disgustingly, he didn't go to bed and walked back and forth in his office until three o'clock in the morning.
A feeling of anger at a wife who did not want to respect decency and fulfil her only condition of not accepting her lover did not rest him.
She failed to comply with his demands, and he must punish her and execute his threat -- to demand a divorce and take away his son.
He knew all the difficulties involved in this case, but he said he would, and now he has to execute the threat.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna suggested to him that this was the best way out of his situation, and in recent times the practice of divorce has led to such an improvement that he saw the possibility of overcoming formal difficulties.
In addition, trouble does not go alone, and the affairs of the organization of foreigners and the irrigation of the fields of Zarai Obernia have caused him such trouble in his service that he has been in a state of extreme irritation lately.
He stayed up all night, and his anger, growing in some great progress, reached the extremes by morning.
And he put on his clothes in haste, as if he were carrying a cup of anger, and feared to shed it, and feared to lose the energy he needed to explain it to his wife, and came to her as soon as he knew she was up.
Anna, who thought she knew her husband so well, was struck by his appearance when he entered her.
His forehead was frowned, and his eyes looked darkly ahead of themselves, avoiding her eyes; his mouth was firm and contemptible.
In his walk, in his movements, in the sound of his voice, he had the determination and firmness that his wife had never seen in him.
He entered the room and, without saying hello to her, went straight to her desk and took the keys and opened the drawer.
'What do you want?- she screamed.
'The letters of your lover,' he said.
'They are not here,' she said, closing the box; but by this move he realized that he had guessed right, and by bluntly pushing her hand, he quickly grabbed a briefcase in which he knew that she had planted the most appropriate papers.
She wanted to rip out the briefcase, but he pushed her away.
'Sit down! I need to talk to you,' he said, putting the briefcase under the mouse and pressing it so hard with his elbow that his shoulder rose.
She stared at him with surprise and humility.
'I told you I wouldn't let you take your lover with me.
'I needed to see him so that...'
She stopped without finding any fiction.
'I do not go into the details of what a woman needs to see a lover for.
'I wanted to, I just...' she said, when she flashed.
That rudeness of him annoyed her and gave her the courage. 'Do you not feel that it is easy for you to insult me? 'She said.'
'It is possible to insult an honest man and an honest woman, but to tell a thief that he is a thief, there is only la constatation d'un fat.
'This is a new feature -- violence I haven't known in you yet.
'You call it cruelty that a husband gives his wife freedom by giving her an honest name only under the condition of decency.'
Is that cruel?
'It's worse than cruelty, it's mean, if you want to know already! -- with an explosion of anger, Anna cried out and, standing up, wanted to leave.
'No! 'He cried out with his penetrating voice, which now rose with a note above the ordinary, and grabbed her hand with his thumbs so hard that the red marks were left on her by the bracelet he had pressed, forced her to lie down.'
Dirty?
If you want to use that word, the meanness is to abandon the husband, the son of the lover, and eat the bread of the husband!
She overstepped her head.
Not only did she not say what she said to her lover yesterday, that he was her husband and that he was redundant; she didn't think so.
She felt the justice of his words and only said quietly:
'You can't describe my situation worse than I understand it myself, but why are you saying all this?
'Why am I saying this? Why? 'He continued with the same anger.' 'To let you know that since you have not fulfilled my will to respect decency, I will accept men to end this situation.'
'It will soon be over, and so it will be,' she said, and again tears at the thought of the near, now the desired death came to her eyes.
'It will end sooner than you and your lover come up with!
You need the satisfaction of animal passion...
'Alexei Alexandrovich!
I'm not saying it's small-minded, but it's not decent to hit a lying man.
'Yes, you only remember yourself, but the suffering of the man who was your husband is not of interest to you. You don't care that his whole life was ruined, that he sang... that pede... that he was suffering.
Alexei Alexandrovich spoke so soon that he was confused and could not speak that word.
He shoved him out at the end of the melody. She got funny and now she's ashamed that she might be laughing at something like this.
And the first time she felt for him for a moment, she moved into him, and she felt sorry for him.
But what could she say or do?
She dropped her head and kept quiet.
He also kept quiet for some time and then spoke with a less penetrating, cold voice, stressing the words chosen at random, without any particular importance,
'I have come to tell you...' he said...
She looked at him.
"No, it seemed to me," she thought, remembering the look on his face when he got mixed up in his words, "no, can a man with these murky eyes feel anything with this smug calm?"
'I can't change anything,' she whispered.
'I have come to tell you that I am leaving for Moscow tomorrow and will not return to this house again, and you will be informed of my decision through a lawyer to whom I will entrust the divorce case.
But my son will move in with his sister,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, remembering with effort what he wanted to say about his son.
'You need Serezha to hurt me,' she said, looking down at him. 'You don't love him...'
Leave Serezha!
'Yes, I have lost even my love for my son because my aversion to you is related to him. But I will take him.
Goodbye!
And he wanted to leave, but now she's holding him.
'Alexei Alexandrovich, leave Serezha! 'She whispered again.' 'I have nothing more to say.
Leave Serezha to my...
I'm about to give birth, leave him alone!
Alexei Alexandrovich burst into flames and, after ripping out her hand, went out of the room silently.
The reception room of the famous Peterburg lawyer was full when Aleksey Alexandrovich entered it.
Three ladies: an old lady, a young woman and a merchant, three masters: one German banker with a finger ring, the other a trader with a beard, and the third, an angry vice-mundir official with a cross around his neck, were apparently waiting for a long time.
Two assistants wrote on the tables, squeaking feathers.
The writing supplies before which Alexey Alexandrovich was a hunter were incredibly good, but he couldn't help but notice it.
One of the helpers, not getting up, sniffing around, angryly turned to Alexei Alexandrovich:
'What do you want?
'I'm dealing with a lawyer.
'The lawyer is busy,' replied the assistant strictly, pointing his finger at the waiters, and kept writing.
'Can't he find time? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said.'
'He has no free time, he is always busy...'
You're welcome to wait.
'Would you mind giving me my card,' said Alexis Alexandrovich with dignity, seeing the need to open your incognito?
The assistant took the card and apparently, without approving its contents, walked through the door.
Aleksey Alexandrovich sympathized with the public court in principle, but we did not have some details of its application, according to his superior service relationship, and condemned them to the extent that he could condemn anything above what he had approved.
His entire life was spent in administrative activities, so when he wasn't sympathetic to anything, his lack of sympathy was mitigated by the recognition of the need for mistakes and the possibility of correction in every case.
In the new judicial institutions, he did not approve of the conditions under which the lawyer had been placed.
But he still had no case before the bar and therefore did not approve of her only in theory; now his disapproval was further exacerbated by the unpleasant impression he had received from the admitted lawyer.
'They will now come out,' said the assistant; and indeed, two minutes later, a long figure of an old jurist meeting with a lawyer and the lawyer himself appeared in the door.
The lawyer was a small, corny, slutty man with a black and red beard, a bright, long eyebrow, and a hanging forehead. He was dressed like a groom, from a tie and a chain of doubles to lacquer boots.
The face was smart, manly, and the outfit was frantic and bad taste.
'I think so,' said the lawyer, turning to Alexei Alexandrovich. And, darkly missing Karenina by himself, he locked the door.
'Would you like that?' 'He pointed to the chair at the paper-based desk and sat down himself in the chair, rubbing small hands with short, white-haired fingers and bowing his head.
But he just calmed down in his position, as moth flew over the table.
A lawyer with a speed that could not be expected of him, torn his hands, caught a moth, and again accepted his position.
'Before I begin to talk about my case,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, surprised to keep an eye on the lawyer's movement, 'I must note that the case I have to talk about with you must be a secret.
A slight smile spread out a little redheaded, hung-up lawyer's moustache.
'I would not be a lawyer if I could not keep the secrets entrusted to me.
But if you want confirmation...
Alexey Alexandrovich looked at his face and saw that the gray, intelligent eyes laughed and everyone knew.
'Do you know my last name?' 'Alexei Alexandrovich continued.
'I know you and your useful ones,' said the lawyer, leaning down.
Alexei Alexandrovich sighed with spirit. But once he made up his mind, he continued with his pompous voice, not his robe, not by sticking in and emphasizing some words.
'I am unhappy,' he began, 'to be deceived by my husband, and I wish to legally break off my relationship with my wife, i.e. divorce, but in such a way that the son does not remain with his mother.
The lawyer &apos; s gray eyes tried not to laugh, but they jumped with unbridled joy, and Aleksey Alexandrovich saw that there was more than one ray--the reach of a man receiving a favourable order -- there was celebration and delight, there was a glitter that looked like the sinister glitter he saw in his wife &apos; s eyes.
'Would you like me to help you get a divorce?'
'Yes, indeed, but I must warn you that I risk abusing your attention.
I've only come to consult you in advance.
I want a divorce, but it's important to me the forms that make it possible.
It's possible that if the forms don't match my demands, I'll drop the legal action.
'Oh, it is always so,' said the lawyer, 'and it is always in your will.
The lawyer turned his eyes on Alexei Alexandrovich's feet, feeling that he could insult the client by looking at his unbridled joy.
He looked at the moth in front of his nose and pulled his hand, but did not catch it out of respect for the position of Alexei Alexandrovich.
&quot; Although I am aware of our general legal provisions on this subject, &quot; he continued, &quot; I would like to know at all the forms in which such cases are being carried out in practice.
'You wish,' answered the lawyer without raising his eyes, not without pleasure entering the tone of his client &apos; s speech; &quot; so that I may set out to you the ways in which your wish may be fulfilled.
And to the confirmational inclination of Alexey Alexandrovich's head, he continued, occasionally only looking a little at the stained face of Alexei Alexandrovich.
'The divorce according to our laws,' he said, with a slight insignificance to our laws, 'is possible, as you know, in the following cases....
Wait!-- he turned to the assistant who had snuck out the door, but he got up and said a few words and sat down again. 'In the following cases: the spouses &apos; physical defects, then the unknown five-year absence, &apos; he said, with a hairy short finger, &quot; then adultery &quot; (the word he said with visible pleasure).
The following units (he continued to bend his fat fingers, although cases and units obviously could not be classified together): the husband's or wife's physical disability, and then the husband's or wife's adultery. 'As all the fingers came out, he dispersed them all and continued: 'It is a theoretical look, but I believe you have honored me to address me in order to learn a practical application.
And so, in line with ancestorism, I have to report to you that divorce cases all come to the following: no physical defects, how can I understand? And also the unknown absence?...
Alexei Alexandrovich had his head bowed in the affirmative.
'Comes to the following: the adultery of one of the spouses and the finding of the criminal party by mutual agreement and, in addition to such agreement, the evidence is involuntary.'
I must say that the latter case is rarely found in practice,' said the lawyer and, looking briefly at Alexei Alexandrovich, shut up as a gun dealer, describing the benefits of both weapons and awaiting the choice of his buyer.
But Aleksey Alexandrovich was silent, so counsel continued: 'The most common and simple, reasonable, I believe, is adultery by mutual agreement.
I wouldn't allow myself to say that if I spoke to someone who wasn't developed,' said the lawyer, 'but I think that's understandable to us.
Aleksey Alexandrovich was, however, so upset that he did not immediately understand the reasonableness of adultery by mutual agreement and expressed this perplexity in his view; but the lawyer immediately helped him:
'People can no longer live together -- this is the fact, and if both agree, details and formalities become irrelevant. At the same time, it is the simplest and surest means.
Alexei Alexandrovich is quite clear now.
But he had religious requirements that prevented him from accepting this measure.
'This is beyond question in the present case,' he said. 'There is only one possible case: the evidence is involuntary, confirmed by the letters I have.
When the letters were mentioned, the lawyer slammed his lips and made a thin, condescending and contemptuous sound.
'Let me see,' he began. 'The affairs of this kind are resolved, as you know, by a spiritual agency; the protopopians in this kind of business are great hunters to the slightest detail,' he said with a smile showing sympathy for the taste of the protopops. &quot; Letters can no doubt confirm in part; but evidence must be obtained by direct means, i.e. by witnesses.
In fact, if you would honor me with your trust, give me a choice of measures to be taken.
Whoever wants the result is allowed the means.
'If so...' began the brilliance, but in that time, the lawyer stood up and went back to the door to the assistant who had interrupted him.
'Tell her we're not on cheap goods! 'He said, and went back to Alexei Alexandrovich.'
Going back to the spot, he caught another moth unseen.
"It'll be good to have my reps by summer!" 'He thought, frowning.'
'So you dared to speak...' he said.
'I will inform you in writing of my decision,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, standing up, and he came to the table.
Having remained a little silent, he said: 'I can conclude from your words that divorce is possible.
I'd like you to tell me what your terms are.
'It is possible that everyone, if you give me full freedom of action,' said the lawyer, without answering the question. 'When can I expect to hear from you?' 'The lawyer asked, moving toward the door and the glitter and the eyes and the lacquer boots.'
'In a week.
Your answer, then, is whether you accept the motion in this case and under what conditions you will be so kind as to inform me.
'Very good.'
The lawyer humbly bowed, let the client out of the door and, remaining alone, gave up his joyous feeling.
He had so much fun that, contrary to his rules, he had made a concession to a shopkeeper and stopped catching moths, finally deciding that by the winter to come, the furniture had to be filled with velvet like Sigonin's.
Alexey Alexandrovich won a brilliant victory in the meeting of the commission on August 17th, but the consequences of that victory cut him off.
A new commission for research on all aspects of foreign life was drawn up and sent to a place with the extraordinary speed and energy created by Alexey Alexandrovich.
Three months later, the report was submitted.
Aliens were studied in political, administrative, economic, ethnographic, material and religious relations.
The answers to all the questions were well set out, and the answers were beyond question, because they were not the work of an ever-disguised human mind, but they were all the work of service.
The answers were all the results of official reports, reports from governors and archivists based on reports from county chiefs and good people based, for their part, on reports from county governments and parish priests; therefore, all the answers were beyond doubt.
All those questions about, for example, why there are crop failures, why residents hold on to their beliefs, etc., issues that without the convenience of the service machine are not resolved and cannot be resolved for centuries, have received clear, unequivocal resolution.
And the decision was in favor of Alexey Alexandrovich's opinion.
But Stremov, feeling hurt by his life at the last meeting, used a stunt of surprise by Alexei Alexandrovich when he received the commission's reports.
Stremov, after engaging some other members, suddenly moved to the side of Alexey Alexandrovich and, with heat, not only defended the imposition of Karen's proposed measures, but also proposed other extremes in the same spirit.
These measures, which were reinforced against the basic idea of Alexey Alexandrovich, were taken, and Stremov's tactics were exposed.
These measures, taken to extremes, suddenly turned out to be so stupid that, at the same time, both public and public opinion, and smart ladies and newspapers, all fell on those measures, expressing their outrage and against the measures themselves and against their recognized father, Alexei Alexandrovich.
Stremov, on the other hand, withdrew, pretending that he had only blindly followed Karen's plan, and now he himself is surprised and outraged by what has been done. It was Alexei Alexandrovich's.
But despite declining health, despite family sorrows, Alexis Alexandrovich did not give up.
There's been a rift in the commission.
Some members with Stremov at the head justified their error by believing that the audit committee, led by Alexey Alexandrovich, presented the report, and said that reporting to the commission was nonsense and only written paper.
Aleksey Alexandrovich, with a party of people who saw the danger of such a revolutionary attitude towards the papers, continued to support the data produced by the audit commission.
As a result, everything was confused in higher spheres and even in society, and although it was of great interest to all, no one could understand whether foreign people were really suffering and dying or flourishing.
As a result, and partly as a result of his contempt for his wife's infidelity, his situation became very precarious.
And in this situation, Alexei Alexandrovich made an important decision.
He, to the surprise of the commission, announced that he would ask permission to go to the site to investigate the case himself. And when he asked for permission, he went to the far externia.
Alexey Alexandrovich's departure made a lot of noise, especially since when he left, he officially returned on paper the running money given to him for twelve horses to travel to his destination.
'I find it very noble,' said Betsy to Princess Soft. 'Why deliver to the postal horses when everyone knows that there are railroads everywhere now?'
But Princess Softy was opposed, and the opinion of Princess Tversky was even annoying to her.
'It is good for you to say,' she said, 'when you have millions I don't know which ones, and I love it very much when a husband goes to see each other in the summer.
He's very nice and happy to drive, and I've got so much to do, I've got a crew and a cart for that money.
On his way to the far extremities, Alexi Alexandrovich stopped for three days in Moscow.
The next day he arrived, he went to visit the Governor General.
At the intersection of the newspaper alley, where there was always a crowd of crews and drivers, Alexis Alexandrovich suddenly heard his name screaming out with such a loud and funny voice that he couldn't help but look back.
On the corner of the sidewalk, in a short fashion coat, with a short fashioned hat, a radiant smile of white tooth between red lips, a merry, young, shiny, stood Stepan Arkadić, determined and strong, screaming and demanding stoppage.
He held one hand behind the window, stopped at the corner of the carriage, from which the woman &apos; s head was pointed out in a velvet hat and two children &apos; s heads, and smiled and manipulated with his son-in-law &apos; s hand.
The lady smiled with a good smile and waved her hand to Alexei Alexandrovich.
It was Dolly and the kids.
Alexei Alexandrovich did not want to see anyone in Moscow, but least of all his wife's brother.
He picked up his hat and wanted to drive, but Stepan Arkadić told his coach to stop and ran to him through the snow.
'Well, it is no sin not to send a message!
It's been a while, and I was at Dusso's last night, and I see it on the board of "Karenin," and it never occurred to me that it was you! 'Stepan Arkadić said, sneaking in with his head through the window of the carriage.' 'Or I would have come.'
It's so good to see you! 'He said, patting his foot against his foot to wipe the snow from them.' 'It is no sin not to let me know! 'He repeated it.
'I've been busy before, I'm very busy,' answered Alexis Alexandrovich dryly.
'Come on, let's go to your wife, she wants to see you so much.'
Alexey Alexandrovich opened the blanket under which his filthy legs were wrapped, and when he came out of the carriage, he snuck through the snow to Daria Alexandrovna.
'What is this, Alexis Alexandrovich, why are you going around us like this?' 'Yes,' said Dolly, smiling.
'I've been very busy.
It is a great pleasure to see you,' he said in a tone that made it clear that he was upset by it. 'How are you doing?
'Well, what is my lovely Anna?
Alexei Alexandrovich washed something and wanted to leave. But Stepan Arkadić stopped him.
'This is what we'll do tomorrow.
Dolly, call him for lunch!
Let's get Koznyshev and Pessov to buy him some Moscow intellectuals.
'Well, please come,' said Dolly, 'we'll be waiting for you at five, six, if you like.
Well, what's my lovely Anna?
How long ago...
'She is well,' groaning, sniffing. 'It's a pleasure! 'And he went to his carriage.'
'Will you? 'Screaming at Dolly.
Alexey Alexandrovich said something that Dolly couldn't hear in the noise of the moving crews.
'I will come by tomorrow!' yelled at him, Stepan Arkadić.
Alexey Alexandrovich sat down in the carriage and shoved into it so that he could neither see nor be seen.
'Oh, weirdo! 'Stepan Arkadych said to his wife, and when he looked at the watch, he made a movement in front of his face, meaning a tenderness to his wife and children, and the good women went on the sidewalk.
'Steve!
Steve!-- screamed Dolly red.
He turned around.
'Cause I need to buy Grisha's coat and Tanya's.
Give me the money!
'Nothing, you tell me what I will give,' and he fled with a funny nod to a traveler's head.
The other day was Sunday.
Stepan Arkadić stopped by the Grand Theatre for a ballet rehearsal and gave Masha Chibisova a pretty, re-entry dancer promised on his behalf on the eve of the crown, and behind the scenes, in the dark of the theater, kissed her pretty, radiant face.
Apart from the gift of the corrals, he had to make a date with her after the ballet.
After explaining to her that he could not be at the start of the ballet, he promised that he would come to the last act and take her to dinner.
From the theater, Stepan Arkadić drove to the Hunting Squad, chose his own fish and asparagus for lunch, and at 12 o'clock he was at Dusso's, where he had to be with three people, like he had been in one hotel: Levin, who had stopped here and had recently come from abroad, had his new boss, who had just arrived at that high place and reviewed Moscow, and his brother-in-law Karenin, who had to bring him to have lunch.
Stepan Arkadić liked to have lunch, but he was even more fond of giving lunch, a small but sophisticated meal, a drink, and a guest's choice.
He liked the current dinner program very much: the bunks are living, asparagus and la piece de resistance -- wonderful, but simple roast beef and fine guilt: it's food and drink.
And the guests will be Kitty and Levin, and to be discreet, there will be a cousin and Shcherbatsky young, and la piece de resistance of guests -- Koznyshev Sergei and Alexei Alexandrovich.
Sergei Ivanovich -- Moscow and philosopher, Aleksey Alexandrovich -- peterburger and practicalist; may the famous enthusiast Pessov, liberalist, talker, musician, historian and cutest 50-year-old boy, who will be a sauce or garrison to Koznyshev and Karenin. He's gonna blow 'em up and throw 'em out.
The money from the merchant for the forest in the second term was received and not yet spent, and Dolly has been very nice lately, and the idea of this meal has in all respects been pleasing to Stepan Arkadić.
He was in the happiest position of spirit.
There were two circumstances that were a little unpleasant, but both of them drowned in the sea of good-willed fun, which was troubled in the soul of Stepan Arkadyich.
These two circumstances were: the first thing he saw yesterday, on the street of Alexei Alexandrovich, was that he was dry and hard on him, and by making that look on the face of Alexei Alexandrovich and that he had not come to them and had not known himself, with the moves he had heard about Anna and Vronski, Stepan Arkadić had guessed that something was wrong between his husband and his wife.
It was one nasty thing. Another unpleasant thing was that the new boss, like all the new bosses, had the reputation of a scary man standing up at six o'clock in the morning, working like a horse, demanding the same job from his subordinates.
In addition, the new boss still had a reputation as a bear in his address and was said to be in the opposite direction to that of the former commander, who still belonged to Stepan Arkadić himself.
Yesterday, Stepan Arkadić served in the uniform, and the new boss was very kind and spoke to Oblonski as a friend; therefore, Stepan Arkadić considered it his duty to pay him a surprise visit.
The idea that the new boss might not well accept him was another unpleasant circumstance. But Stepan Arkadić instinctively felt that everything would be fine.
"All men, all men, just as we are sinners, what is there to be angry with and quarrel with?" 'He thought when he entered the hotel.'
'Hello, Vasily,' he said, in his hat, walking down the hall and turning to a familiar footman, 'you let the buckenbards go? Levin is the seventh number, huh?
Please escort me.
Let's see, Count Anichkin (this was the new boss) will accept?
'I'm listening,' answered Vasily with a smile. 'It has been a long time since anyone complained to us.
'I was yesterday, only from another entrance.'
Is that the seventh?
Levin stood with a Tver man in the middle of the room and archin measured the fresh bear's skin when Stepan Arkadić entered.
'Oh, they were killed?' Screamed Stepan Arkadych. 'That's a good thing!
A bear?
Hello, Archipe!
He shook a man's hand and sat on a chair without taking off his coat and hats.
'Take it off, sit down! 'Take off his hat,' said Levin.
'No, I don't have time, only for one second,' answered Stepan Arkadić.
He opened his coat, but then he took it off and sat there for an hour, talking to Levin about hunting and the most soulful objects.
'Well, please tell me, what were you doing abroad? Where have you been? 'Stepan Arkadić said, when the man came out.'
'I was in Germany, in Prussia, in France, in England, but not in capitals, but in factory cities, and I saw a lot of new things.
And I'm glad I was.
'Yes, I know your idea of a workman's device.
'Not at all: there can be no worker's question in Russia.
In Russia, it's about the relationship of the working people to the ground; it's there, but it's about fixing the spoiled, and we have...
Stepan Arkadič listened carefully to Levin.
'Yes, yes! 'He said. 'It may well be that you are right,' he said. 'But I am glad that you are in a good spirit; and you follow the bears, and you work, and you get carried away.' 'Cause Scherbatsky told me -- he met you -- that you're in some kind of sadness, all talking about death...
'Well, I don't stop thinking about death,' said Levin. 'It is true that it is time to die.
And that it's all nonsense.
I'll tell you the truth: I think of my work and my work very dear, but in fact -- you think about it, because this whole world is a small mold that has sprung up on a tiny planet.
And we think we might have something great -- thought, action!
They're all grains of sand.
'This, brother, is old as the world!
'Oldly, but you know, when you understand it clearly, it's all done in a small way.
When you realize you're gonna die tomorrow and there's nothing left, it's nothing!
And I think it's very important that I think of it, and it turns out to be just as insignificant if I could even do it, like go around that bear.
So you spend your life having fun hunting, working, not thinking about death.
Stepan Arkadić smiled in a subtle and sweet manner, listening to Levin.
'Of course!
So you came to me.
Remember when you attacked me for what I was looking for in a life of pleasure?
Don't be a moralist, it's so hard!
'No, there's a good thing in life...' Levin got confused. 'I don't know.
All I know is we're gonna die soon.
'Why soon?'
'And you know, the beauty of life is less when you think about death,' but calmer.
'On the contrary, it is even more fun in the wake.'
Well, I have to go, though,' said Stepan Arkadić, rising for the tenth time.
'No, sit!' said Levin, holding him. 'Now when will I see you?'
I'm going tomorrow.
'I am good!
Then I came...
Come and have lunch with me today.
Your brother will be, Karenin, my son-in-law.
'Is he here? ' said Levin, and wanted to ask about Kitty.
He heard that she was at the beginning of the winter in Petersburg with her sister, the diplomat's wife, and he didn't know if she was back or not, but thought about asking questions. "It will, it won't, it won't."
'Are you coming?'
'Of course, of course.
'That's five o'clock and in a suture.
And Stepan Arkadić stood up and went down to the new boss.
Instinct did not deceive Stepan Arkadyić. The new scary boss turned out to be a very considerate man, and Stepan Arkadić had breakfast with him and sat down so that only at the fourth hour was he in contact with Alexei Alexandrovich.
When he returned from his poverty, he spent the whole morning at home.
This morning, he had two things to do: first, to accept and send to Petersburg, and now in Moscow, a delegation of foreigners; and secondly, to write the promised letter to the lawyer.
The delegation, though initiated by Alexey Alexandrovich, represented a great deal of inconvenience and even danger, and he was very pleased to have caught her in Moscow.
Members of this delegation had no idea of their roles and responsibilities.
They were naively convinced that it was up to them to express their needs and the true state of affairs by seeking the help of the Government, and were determined not to understand that some statements and demands had supported the hostile party and had therefore ruined the whole case.
Alexei Alexandrovich worked with them for a long time, wrote them a program from which they should not have left, and by letting them go, he wrote letters to Petersburg to direct the delegation.
The chief assistant in this case was Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
She was a specialist in deputization, and no one like her knew how to muss and give real direction to deputations.
After finishing this, Alexei Alexandrovich wrote a letter to the lawyer.
He did not hesitate to allow him to act in his favor. In the letter, he added three notes to Anna, which were found in a stolen briefcase.
Since he left the house with the intention of not returning to his family, and since he was with a lawyer and told one person of his intention, especially since he turned this case into a paper file, he has become more and more accustomed to his intention and has now seen clearly the possibility of doing it.
He sealed the envelope to his lawyer when he heard the loud sounds of Stepan Arkadjić's voice.
Stepan Arkadič argued with Alexei Alexandrovich's servant and insisted that he be reported.
"It's all the same," he thought, "the better thing is, I'm going to announce my position with regard to his sister and explain why I can't have lunch with him."
'Please! 'He spoke loudly, picking up the papers and putting them in the boulevard.'
'But you see that you are lying, and he is at home!' answered the voice of Stepan Arkadyich, who would not let him go, and while taking off his coat, Oblonsky entered the room. 'Well, I'm very glad I caught you!
So I hope...'" Stepan Arkadić started out fun.
'I can't be,' said Alexandrovich, cold, standing and not planting a guest.
Now he thought he was going to be in a cold relationship with his wife's brother, against whom he started the divorce; but he did not count on the sea of good - kindness that had spilled out of Stepan Arkadjić's soul.
Stepan Arkadič opened his shiny, bright eyes wide.
'Why can't you?
What are you saying? Surprisingly, he spoke French. 'No, it's a promise.
And we're all counting on you.
'I mean, I can't have you, because the relationship between us has to end.
What do you mean?
Why? 'Stepan Arkadić said with a smile.'
'Cause I'm starting a divorce with your sister, my wife.
I should have...
But Aleksey Alexandrovich had not yet finished his speech, just as Stepan Arkadić had not done at all as he had expected.
Stepan Arkadić flipped and sat in the chair.
'No, Alexis Alexandrovich, what are you saying!' cried Oblonsky, and the suffering was on his face.
'That's right.
'Excuse me, I can't and can't believe it...'
Alexey Alexandrovich sat down feeling that his words did not have the action he expected and that he would need to be explained, and that whatever his explanations were, his attitude towards his brother - in - law would remain the same.
'Yes, I am in dire need of divorce,' he said.
'I'll tell you one thing, Alexis Alexandrovich.
I know you for a great, fair man, I know Anna -- I'm sorry, I can't change my mind about her -- for a beautiful, wonderful woman, so forgive me, I can't believe it.
There was a misunderstanding,' he said.
'Yes, if it were just a misunderstanding...'
'Let me understand,' interrupted Stepan Arkadić. 'But of course... one thing: don't rush. Don't, don't hurry!
'I was not in a hurry,' said Alexis Alexandrovich coldly, 'and no one can be consulted in such a case.
I've made up my mind.
'It's awful!' said Stepan Arkadić, sighing hard. 'I would have done one thing, Alexis Alexandrovich.
I beg you, do it!' he said. 'The case has not yet begun, I understand.
Before you start the case, see my wife, talk to her.
She loves Anna like a sister, loves you, and she's an amazing woman.
For God's sake, talk to her!
Make me this friendship, I beg you!
Aleksey Alexandrovich thought, and Stepan Arkadić looked at him with participation, without interrupting his silence.
'Are you going to see her?'
'I don't know.
That's why I wasn't at your place. I believe that our relationship must change.
'Why?
I don't see it.
Let me think that, in addition to our relationship, you have for me some of the friendships that I have always had for you... and true respect," said Stepan Arkadić, shaking his hand. 'If even your worst assumptions were true, I will not, and will never, judge either side and see no reason why our relationship should change.'
But now, do it, come to your wife's.
'Well, we look at this case differently,' said Alexis Alexandrovich coldly. 'But let's not talk about it.
'No, why don't you come?
Anything to eat these days? Your wife's waiting for you.
Please come.
And most importantly, talk to her.
She's an amazing woman.
For God's sake, I beg you on my knees!
'If that is what you want -- I will come,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, sighing. And in order to change the conversation, he asked what was of interest to them in common -- the new commander of Stepan Arkadiyić, an old man who had suddenly received such a high appointment.
Alexey Alexandrovich has never loved Count Anichkin before and has always disagreed with him, but he has now been unable to resist a man who has been defeated in the service and who has been promoted to hate workers.
'Well, have you seen him? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said with a poisonous laugh,
'Oh, he was in our presence yesterday.
He seems to know the case well and very well.
'Yes, but what is his purpose? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said.' 'Is it to do the work, or to redo what is done?'
The misfortune of our State is a paper administration to which it is worthy of representation.
'Really, I don't know what can be condemned in it. I don't know his directions, but one thing -- he's a great guy -- said Stepan Arkadić. 'I've just been to him, and, indeed, a great fellow.
We had breakfast, and I taught him how to make, you know, drink, orange wine.
It's very chilly. And it's amazing that he didn't know that.
He really liked it.
No, really, he's a nice guy.
Stepan Arkadych took a look at the watch.
'Oh, Fathers, there's a fifth, and I still have to go to Longhound!
So please come and have lunch.
You can't imagine how upset you would be with my wife.
Alexei Alexandrovich did not conduct his brother-in-law the same way he met him.
'I promised, and I will come,' he replied.
'Believe me, and I hope you won't repent,' replied, smiling, Stepan Arkadić.
And when he was walking on his coat, he hit the footman's head with his hand, laughed and came out.
'At five o'clock, and in a suture, please!' he cried again, returning to the door.
It was the sixth hour, and some guests arrived when the master arrived.
He entered with Sergei Ivanovich Koznyshev and Pessov, who were at the same time at the entrance.
They were the two main representatives of Moscow's intellectuals, as Oslo called them.
Both people were respected by nature and mind.
They respected each other, but in almost everything they were completely and hopelessly disagreeing with each other -- not because they belonged to opposite directions, but precisely because there were one camp (the enemy mixed them in one), but in this camp they had each of their own shades.
And since there is nothing more incapable of agreement than dissension in semi-disturbation, not only have they never come to terms, but they have long been accustomed, without anger, to laughing at the incorruptible error of one another.
They walked through the door talking about the weather when Stepan Arkadić caught up with them.
Prince Alexander Dmitrievich, father-in-law of Oblon, young Shcherbatsky, Tourovtsyn, Kitty and Karenin were sitting in the living room.
Stepan Arkadič immediately saw that things were going badly in the living room without him.
Daria Alexandrovna, in her parade gray silk dress, apparently concerned and having children to eat in the children's room alone, and because her husband is not yet there, she has not been able to make a good mix of this society without him.
Everyone sat like a guest (as the old prince put it), apparently wondering why they came here, pressing their words to keep quiet.
The good-natured Turovtsyn obviously felt out of place, and the smile of the fat lips with which he met Stepan Arkadyich, as she said, "Well, brother, you put me with the smart ones!
Here's a drink in Chateau de fleurs -- that's my thing."
The old prince sat silently on the side, staring at Karenin with his shiny eyes, and Stepan Arkadych realized that he had already invented a word to print that state-owned husband, who was called to visit as a bitch.
Kitty looked at the door, gathering her strength to avoid blushing at the entrance of Constantin Levin.
Young Shcherbatsky, who had not been introduced to Karenin, tried to show that he wasn't embarrassed at all.
Karenin himself was, in Peterburg's habit, at a dinner with ladies in a fracco and a white tie, and Stepan Arkadić, on his face, realized that he had just come to fulfill that word, and that he was doing a great job in that society.
He was the main culprit of the cold that froze all the guests before Stepan Arkadyić arrived.
When he entered the living room, Stepan Arkadić apologized, explained that he had been detained by the prince, who had always been the scavenger of all his belated and outbursts, and at one minute introduced them to Alexey Alexandrovich and Sergei Koznyshev, and gave them the theme of Poland, which they were immediately clinging to with Pestsov.
After rubbing on Turovtsyn's shoulder, he whispered something funny to him and put him in front of his wife and the prince.
Then he told Kitty that she was very good today, and introduced Scherbatsky to Karenin.
One minute he was so mixed up with all this social dough, he became a living room at least, and the voices were loud.
There wasn't one Constantin Levine.
But it was for the best, because when Stepan Arkadych went out to the dining room, to his horror, he saw that the port and sherry had been taken from Depre, not from Levi, and he had ordered that the coachman be sent to Leva as soon as possible, and went back to the living room.
Konstantin Levin met him in the dining room.
'I'm not late?
'Would you not be late!' said Stepan Arkadych, taking him under his arm.
'Do you have a lot of people?'
Who's who? 'Involuntarily red,' asked Levin, wearing a glove of snow from the hat.
'All yours.
Kitty's here.
Come on, I'll introduce you to Karenin.
Stepan Arkadić, despite his liberality, knew that knowing Karenin couldn't help but be flattering, so he gave it to his best mates.
But at this moment Konstantin Levin was unable to feel all the pleasure of this meeting.
He didn't see Kitty after his commemorative evening at which he met Vronsky, except for the minute he saw her on the big road.
He knew deep down that he would see her here today. But while maintaining his freedom of thought, he tried to assure himself that he did not know it.
Now that he heard that she was here, he suddenly felt so happy and so scared together that he had breathed, and he couldn't say what he wanted to say.
"What, what's she like?
Is it the one that used to be, or the one that was in the carriage?
What if the truth was told by Daria Alexandrovna?
Why isn't it true?" 'He thought.'
'Oh, please introduce me to Karenin,' he spoke with difficulty and went into the living room with a desperate and decisive move and saw her.
She was neither as she was before nor as she was in the carriage; she was very different.
She was scared, shy, ashamed, and thus even more adorable.
She saw him the moment he entered the room.
She was waiting for him. She was happy and embarrassed from her joy to the point where there was a minute, the exact moment when he approached the mistress and looked at her again, which was both for her and for him and for Dolly, who saw everything, it seemed like she wouldn't hold and cry.
She blushed, paled, blushed again, and froze a little bit with her lips, waiting for him.
He went up to her, bowed down, and stretched out his hand silently.
If it weren't for the light shaking of her lips and the humidity that covered her eyes and increased her glitter, her smile was almost calm when she said,
'How we haven't seen each other in a long time!' And she shook her hand with desperate determination with her cold hand.
'You did not see me, but I saw you,' said Levin, smiling with a smile of happiness. 'I saw you on your way from the railway to Jergushovo.
'When? 'She asked with surprise.'
'You were going to Jergushovo,' said Levin, feeling that he was drowned by the happiness that filled his soul.
"And how dare I connect the thought of something not innocent with this moving creature!
And yes, it seems true what Daria Alexandrovna said," he thought.
Stepan Arkadić took his hand and led him to Karenin.
'Let me introduce you. 'He has named them.
'It is very nice to meet you again,' said Alexi Alexandrovich coldly, shaking his hand to Levin.
'Do you know each other? 'Suddenly asked Stepan Arkadić.
'We spent three hours together in the car,' said Levin smiling, 'but we went out like a masquerade intrigued, at least I did.
'Please,' said Stepan Arkadić, pointing in direction to the dining room.
The men entered the cafeteria and approached the table with six types of vodka and so many types of cheese with silver scapulas and no scapulas, caviars, herrings, canteens of different varieties and plates with slices of French bread.
The men stood by the smelly vodka and appetizers, and the conversation about Poland's irritation between Sergei Ivanych Koznyshev, Karenin and Pestsov quieted in anticipation of dinner.
Koznyshev, who was able, more than anyone, to end the most distracted and serious dispute by suddenly pouring attic salt and thus changing the mood of the interlocutors, did so now.
Aleksey Alexandrovich argued that the energizing of Poland could only take place because of the higher principles to be introduced by the Russian administration.
Peskov insisted that one people assimilate another only when it is thicker.
Koznyshev acknowledged both, but with limitations.
But when they came out of the living room to make a conversation, Koznyshev said, smiling,
'There is therefore one way to energize foreigners -- to bring as many children out as possible.
My brother and I are the worst. And you, gentlemen, are married people, especially you, Stepan Arkadych, are quite patriotic; how much do you have? 'He turned, smiling gently at the master, and giving him a tiny drink.'
Everyone laughed, and it was particularly fun for Stepan Arkadych.
'Yes, this is the best remedy!' he said, chewing cheese and pouring some special kind of vodka into a folded glass.
The conversation really stopped at a joke.
'This cheese is not stupid. Will you order me? 'The master said.' 'Have you ever been to gymnastics again? 'He turned to Levin, touching his muscle with his left hand, and Levin smiled, drowned his hand, and rose under the fingers of Stepan Arkadyić, like round cheese, a steel booger from under the thin skunk of a smurf.
'Here's a bicep!
-Sason! -Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
'I think it is necessary to have more power to hunt bears,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, who had the most vague notions of hunting, rubbing cheese and breaking a thin one like a web of bread.
Levin smiled.
'Nothing.
On the contrary, a child can kill a bear,' he said, avoiding a light bow in front of the ladies who were approaching the appetizer table with the hostess.
'And you killed the bear, did you say?' 'Kiti said, trying in vain to catch with a fork an unruly, slipping mushroom and shaking laces through which her hand whitened. 'Do you have any bears?' 'She added, turning her pretty head to him and smiling.'
Nothing seemed unusual about what she said, but what an indescribable meaning for him with words was in every sound, every movement of her lips, eyes, hands when she said it!
There was a request for forgiveness, and trust in him, and tenderness, and tenderness, and a promise, and hope, and love for him, in which he could not disbelieve, and which choked him with happiness.
'No, we went to the Tver Province.
When I returned from there, I met your brother-in-law or your brother-in-law in a car," he said with a smile. 'It was a funny meeting.
And he's funny and funny about how he broke into Alexei Alexandrovich's section without sleeping all night.
'The conductor, repulsively saying, wanted to walk me out of my dress; but I began to express myself with a high syllable, and... you too,' he said, forgetting his name and turning to Karenin, 'at first they wanted to banish me, too, but then stood up, for which I am very grateful.
'In general, the very uncertain rights of passengers to choose their seats,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, rubbing a scarf on the ends of his fingers.
'I have seen that you were indecisive about me,' said Levin with a good smile, 'but I hastened to start a smart conversation to make up for my half-finger.
Koznyshev, continuing his conversation with the mistress and one ear listening to his brother, touched him. "What's wrong with him today?
Such a winner,' he thought.
He did not know that Levin felt that his wings had grown.
Levin knew that she heard his words and that she was pleased to hear him. And that's the only thing that took him.
Not in this room alone, but all around the world, he was the only one of great importance and importance to himself, and she.
He felt at the height from which his head was spinning, and somewhere down there, far away, there were all these good, glorious Kareninas, the Oblons, and the whole world.
Not to be seen without looking at them, but as if there was nowhere else to plant, Stepan Arkadić put Levin and Kitty next to him.
'Well, sit here at least,' he said to Levin.
Lunch was as good as the dishes that Stepan Arkadych's hunter was before.
Marie-Louise's soup was fine; the cakes were tiny, melted in their mouths, and they were impeccable.
Two footmen and Matway, wearing white ties, did their work with food and wine discreetly, quietly and spore.
Lunch from the material side was successful; no less was it from the intangible side.
The conversation, the general conversation, the private one, didn't stop, and by the end of the dinner, he was so excited that the men got up from behind the table without stopping talking, and even Alexis Alexandrovich came to life.
Sandsov liked to reason to the end and was not satisfied with the words of Sergei Ivanovic, especially since he felt the injustice of his opinion.
'I never understood,' he said in return for the soup, referring to Alexei Alexandrovich, 'one thickness of the population, but in connection with the foundations, not with the principles.
'It seems to me that it is the same.'
In my opinion, the only person who can act on another people is the one who has higher development, who...
'But the question is,' interrupted with his bass of Pestsov, who had always been in a hurry to speak, and seemed always to count on what he was saying -- what was the idea of higher development?
English, French, Germans -- who is highly developed?
Who will nationalize one another?
We can see that Raine is French and the Germans aren't down!-- he was screaming. 'There is another law here!
'It seems to me that influence is always on the side of true education,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, raising his eyebrows slightly.
'But what should we think of the signs of true education?' 'Songsov said.'
'I believe that these signs are known,' said Alexis Alexandrovich.
'Are they well known?' &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt 'It is now recognized that real education can only be classical; but we see bitter arguments on both sides, and it cannot be denied that the opposing camp has no strong argument in its favour.
'You're a classic, Sergei Ivanovich.
Would you like a red one? 'Stepan Arkadić said.'
'I do not express my opinion on both entities,' said Sergei Ivanovic, with a smile of condescending as a child, posing his glass, 'I say only that both sides have strong arguments,' he continued, turning to Alexei Alexandrovich. 'I am a classic in education, but in this argument, I personally cannot find my place.
I don't see clear arguments why classical science is given priority over real science.
'Natures have the same educational and developmental influence,' picked up Peskov. 'Take one astronomy, take a nerd, a zoology with its common law system!
'I can't quite agree with that,' replied Alexis Alexandrovich. 'It seems to me that one cannot but admit that the very process of learning the forms of languages is particularly beneficial to spiritual development.
Moreover, it cannot be denied that the influence of classical writers is highly moral, whereas unfortunately, the harmful and false teachings that make up the ulcers of our time are associated with the teaching of natural sciences.
Koznyshev wanted to say something, but Pestsov killed him with his thick bass.
He was eager to prove the injustice of that view.
Koznyshev quietly waited for a word, apparently with a winning objection.
'But,' said Koznyshev, with a subtle smile and addressing Karenin, 'we cannot but agree that it is difficult to weigh the full benefits and disadvantages of these and other sciences and that the question of which to choose would not have been resolved so soon and definitively if there had not been on the side of classical education the advantage you have now expressed -- moral -- disons le mot -- of anti-nihilistic influence.
'No doubt.
'Had it not been for this advantage of anti-nihilistic influence on the side of classical science, we would have more thought, would have weighed the arguments of both sides,' said Koznyshev with a subtle smile, 'we would have given space to both directions.
But now we know that these pills of classical education contain the healing power of anti-nighilism, and we are bravely offering them to our patients...
What, no healing power? 'He concluded by pouring othetical salt.'
In the pills of Sergei Ivanovich, everyone laughed, especially loud and funny Turovtsyn, who finally waited for the funny thing he was waiting for when he heard the conversation.
Stepan Arkadić was right to invite Pessov.
With Sand talk, the smart man couldn't stop talking for a minute.
Koznyshev just made a conversation with his joke, and Peskov immediately picked up a new one.
'It is not even acceptable,' he said, 'that the Government should have that goal.
The Government seems to be guided by general considerations, remaining indistinguishable to the effects that measures may have.
For example, the issue of women &apos; s education should have been considered harmful, but the Government was opening women &apos; s courses and universities.
And the conversation immediately bounced on the new subject of women's education.
Aleksey Alexandrovich suggested that the education of women was usually mixed with the issue of women &apos; s freedom and therefore could only be considered harmful.
'I think, on the contrary, that these two issues are inextricably linked,' said Pessov, 'it is a false circle.
Women are deprived of their rights due to lack of education and lack of education is due to lack of rights.
We must remember that the enslavement of women is so great and old that we often do not want to understand what separates them from us, he said.
'You said &apos; right, &apos; said Koznyshev, waiting for Pessov &apos; s silence, &quot; the right &quot; to hold jury, vowel, chairman, employee &apos; right, member of parliament...
'No doubt.
'But if women, as a rare exception, are able to take up these seats, then I think you've misused the expression 'right'.'
It's better to say, responsibilities.
Everyone will agree that by acting as a juror, vowel, telegraphian, we feel that we are doing our duty.
And that's why it's more accurate to say that women are looking for responsibilities, and it's perfectly legal.
And one can only sympathize with this desire to help men work together.
'Surely,' confirmed Alexis Alexandrovich. 'The only question, I believe, is whether they are capable of these responsibilities.
'It is likely that they will be very capable,' said Stepan Arkadić, 'when education will spread among them.
We see it...
'And the proverb? 'The prince said, having listened to the conversation for a long time and glittering with his little mocking eyes,' said the princess, 'the hair is long enough...
'That's what they thought of the Negroes before they were released! 'He said with anger Peskov.'
'I find it strange that women are looking for new responsibilities,' said Koznyshev, 'and unfortunately we see that men usually avoid them.
'The duties involve rights; power, money, honor: women are looking for them,' said Sandsov...
'It's like I'd be looking for the right to be a nurse and be offended that women are being paid and I'm not wanted,' said the old prince.
Turovtsin started laughing loudly, and Sergei Ivanovic regretted that he wasn't the one who said it.
Even Alexei Alexandrovich smiled.
'Yes, but a man cannot feed,' said Sandsov, 'and a woman...
'No, an Englishman fed his child on the ship,' said the old prince, allowing himself this freeness of conversation with his daughters.
'How many of these are English, and how many women will be officials,' said Sergei Ivanovic.
'Yes, but what shall a girl who has no family do?' 'Stepan Arkadić came forward, remembering Chibisova, which he had always meant, empathizing with Pessov and supporting him.
'If you take a good look at this girl's story, you'll find that this girl left her family, or her own sister, where she could have a woman's business,' said suddenly when she entered into a conversation with the irritation of Daria Alexandrovna, probably guessing which girl Stepan Arkadić had in mind.
'But we stand for the principle, for the ideal! 'The sound bass objected to Sandsov.' 'The woman wants to have the right to be independent, educated.'
She's shy, depressed by the fact that she can't do it.
'And I am shy and depressed that I shall not be accepted into a nursing home,' said the old prince again, to the great joy of Turovtsyn, with the laughter of the asparagus who dropped the fat end into the sauce.
Everyone took part in the general conversation, except for Kitty and Levin.
At first, when it came to the influence that one nation had on another, Levin was unaware of what he had to say on this subject; but these thoughts, before him, were very important, as though in a dream they were in his head and no longer had any interest in him.
It even seemed strange to him why they were trying so hard to talk about things that no one needed.
For Kitty, in the same way, it seemed interesting what they said about women's rights and education.
How many times she thought of it, remembering her foreign friend Varenka, her heavy addiction, how many times she thought of herself, what would happen to her if she didn't marry her, and how many times she argued with her sister about it!
But now she wasn't interested in it at all.
They had a conversation with Levin, not a conversation, but some mysterious association that, with every minute of it, drew them closer and created in both a sense of joyous fear in front of the unknown they entered into.
At first Levin, to Kitty's question about how he could have seen her in a carriage last year, told her how he had walked out of his hand on a big road and met her.
'It was early in the morning.
You must have just woken up.
Your man slept in his corner.
It was a lovely morning.
I'm going and I'm thinking, who's the four in the carriage? The nice four with the bubbles, and for a moment you blinked, and I see through the window -- you sit like this with both hands holding your caps and thinking about something awful,' he said, smiling. 'I wish I knew what you were thinking.'
What's important?
"Wasn't it cracked?" 'She thought; but when she saw the enthralled smile caused by these details in his memory, she felt that, on the contrary, the impression she had made was very good.
She was blushing and laughing. 'Really, I don't remember.
'How well Turovtsyn laughs!' said Levin, looking at his damp eyes and shaking body.
'How long have you known him?' 'Ask Kitty.
'Who doesn't know him!
'And I see you think he is a bad man?'
'Not a bad one, but a pitiful one.'
'And it is not true!
And don't think like that again! 'Oh, Kitty said.' 'I too had a very low opinion of him, but this, this is a noble and wonderfully kind man.
His heart is gold.
'How could you recognize his heart?' 'He and I are great friends.
I know him very well.
Last winter, shortly after... we had you,' she said with guilt and a gullible smile together,' Dolly had all the children in Scarlatine, and he came to her one day.
And you can imagine,' she whispered,' she felt so sorry for her that he stayed and helped her go after her children.
Yeah, and he lived in their house for three weeks, and like a babysitter, he followed the kids.
'I tell Konstantin Dmitrich about Turovtsin in Scarlatin,' she said, bowing to her sister.
'Yes, it is amazing, it is lovely!' said Dolly, looking at Turovtsin, who felt that he had been spoken of, and smiled softly at him.
Levin once again looked at Turovtsin and was surprised how he had not previously understood the beauty of the man.
'It's my fault, my fault, and I will never think ill of people again. Funly he said with sincerity what he now felt.
In a deliberate conversation about women &apos; s rights, women &apos; s questions about unequal rights in marriage were sensitive.
Sands came to these questions several times during lunch, but Koznyshev and Stepan Arkadić carefully rejected him.
When they got up from behind the table and the ladies came out, Pestsov, without following them, turned to Alexei Alexandrovich and began to speak about the root cause of inequality.
Inequality of spouses was, in his view, the fact that the wife &apos; s infidelity and the husband &apos; s infidelity were not equal to the law and public opinion.
Stepan Arkadič rushed up to Alexei Alexandrovich, asking him to smoke.
'No, I don't smoke,' answered Alexis Alexandrovich calmly and, as if deliberately wanting to show that he was not afraid of this conversation, turned to Sandsov with a cold smile.
'I believe that the basis for this view lies in the very essence of things,' he said, and wanted to go into the living room; but he suddenly spoke to Turovtsyn, turning to Alexei Alexandrovich.
'Have you ever heard of Sparrow?' 'Turovtsyn said, busy with a drink of champagne, and waiting a long time to break his heavy silence. 'Vasya Spryanikov,' he said with his good smile of moist and blubber lips, addressing mainly the main guest, Alexei Alexandrovich, 'I was told today, he fought on a duel in Tveri with Quatsky and killed him.
As always, it seems like you're beating up, on purpose, it's the sick spot, and now Stepan Arkadych felt that in trouble today, every minute of the day, the conversation attacked the sick spot of Alexey Alexandrovich.
He wanted to take his son-in-law back, but he asked him with curiosity:
'What did the Sparrows fight for?'
'To my wife.
Well done!
Called and killed!
'Ah!' said Alexi Alexandrovich with indifference, and lifted his eyebrows and went into the living room.
'How glad I am that you have come,' said Dolly to him with a frightened smile, meeting him in the living room, 'I need to talk to you.
Sit here.
Aleksey Alexandrovich, with the same expression of indifference that raised his eyebrows, sat down beside Darya Alexandrovna and pretended to smile.
'All the more so,' he said, 'that I wanted to apologize to you and to withdraw immediately.
I have to go tomorrow.
Daria Alexandrovna was firmly convinced of Anna's innocence and felt that she was pale and her lips were trembling with anger at this cold, insensitive man, so dying to destroy her innocent friend.
'Alexei Alexandrovich,' she said, looking into his eyes with desperate determination. 'I asked you about Anna, you didn't answer me.
What is she?
'She seems healthy, Daria Alexandrovna,' replied Alexi Alexandrovich, without looking at her.
'Alexei Alexandrovich, forgive me, I have no right... but as my sister, I love and respect Anna; I beg you, I beg you to tell me what is between you? What are you accusing her of?
Alexei Alexandrovich shriveled and, almost closed his eyes, lowered his head.
'I believe that my husband has given you the reasons why I think it is necessary to change my previous attitude towards Anna Arkadievna,' he said, looking not into her eyes, but unsatisfiedly looking through Shcherbatsky's living room.
'I don't believe it, I don't believe it, I can't believe it!' 'Squeezing her bony hands in front of her,' said Dolly with a vigorous gesture.
She quickly stood up and put her hand on the sleeve of Alexey Alexandrovich. 'We're gonna get in the way here. Come here, please.
Dolly's excitement was directed at Alexei Alexandrovich.
He stood up and humbly followed her to the classroom.
They sat down at a table covered with cut-up penknifes with glue.
'I don't believe it, I don't believe it!' said Dolly, trying to catch his avoiding look.
'We cannot disbelieve the facts, Daria Alexandrovna,' he said, hitting the word with the facts.
'But what did she do?' 'Darya Alexandrovna spoke.' 'What exactly did she do?'
'She has despised her duties and cheated on her husband.
This is what she did,' he said.
'No, no, it can't be!
No, for God's sake, you were wrong!' said Dolly, touching his hands to the temples and closing her eyes.
Aleksey Alexandrovich smiled coldly with the same lips, wishing to show her and himself the firmness of his conviction; but this warm protection, though it did not hesitate him, poisoned his wound.
He spoke with a lot of excitement.
'It is very difficult to make mistakes when the wife herself announces the husband.' He declared that eight years of his life and his son -- that it was all a mistake and that she wanted to live first -- he said angryly with his nose.
'Anna and vice -- I can't connect, I can't believe it.
'Daria Alexandrovna!' he said, looking straight at Dolly's good excited face and feeling that his tongue was loosen. 'I would have given dearly so that doubt might still be possible.'
When I doubted it, it was hard, but it was easier than it is now.
When I doubted, there was hope; but now there is no hope, and I still doubt everything.
I doubt everything that I hate my son and sometimes I don't believe it's my son.
I'm very unhappy.
He shouldn't have said that.
Daria Alexandrovna understood it as soon as he looked into her face; and she felt sorry for him, and faith in her friend's innocence was shaken in her.
'Ah! It's awful, it's awful!
But is it true that you decided to divorce?
'I have decided on the last resort.
I don't have anything else to do.
'There is nothing to do, nothing to do...' she said with tears in her eyes. 'No, there's nothing to do! 'She said.'
'There's something awful about this kind of grief that you can't, like any other -- in loss, in death, in the cross, and here you have to act,' he said, as if guessing her thought. 'It is necessary to get out of the humiliating position in which you are placed: you cannot live in three.
'I understand, I understand that very much,' said Dolly and lowered her head.
She kept quiet, thinking of herself, of her family's grief, and suddenly, with an energy gesture, she lifted her head and folded her arms with a begging gesture. 'But wait!
You're a Christian.
Think about her!
What will happen to her if you leave her?
'I thought, Daria Alexandrovna, and thought a lot,' said Alexandrovich.
His face turned red with stains, and his murky eyes looked right at her.
Daria Alexandrovna has already felt sorry for him with all her soul. 'I did the very thing after it was declared to me, my shame itself; I left everything as it was.'
I gave her the opportunity to fix it, I tried to save her.
What's that?
She did not meet the simplest requirement -- respect for decency -- he said in a heated manner. 'It is possible to save a man who does not want to die; but if nature is so spoiled, it is depraved that the most destruction seems to her to be salvation, what is to be done?
'That's it, not the divorce! 'Daria Alexandrovna answered.
'But what is it?'
'No, it's awful.
She's gonna be nobody's wife, she's gonna die!
'What can I do?' 'Picked up his shoulders and eyebrows,' said Alexis Alexandrovich.
The memory of his wife's latest wrongdoing was so annoying that he became cold again, as at the beginning of the conversation. 'I thank you very much for your participation, but I have to go,' he said, getting up.
'No, wait!
You mustn't destroy her.
Wait, I'll tell you about myself.
I got married, and my husband lied to me; in anger, jealousy, I wanted to give up everything, I wanted to...
But I remembered, and who was it? Anna saved me.
And here I am.
Kids grow up, husband goes back to his family and feels wrong, makes it cleaner, makes it better, and I live...
I've forgiven you, and you must forgive!
Aleksey Alexandrovich listened, but her words no longer applied to him.
The evil of the day when he decided to divorce him rose up in his soul.
He fell off and said with a shiny, loud voice:
'I can't forgive, and I don't want to, and I find it unfair.
I've done everything for this woman, and she's trampled everything into the dirt that she has.
I'm not an evil man, I've never hated anyone, but I hate her with all my soul and I can't even forgive her because I hate her too much for all the evil she's done to me! 'He spoke with tears of anger in his voice.'
'Love those who hate you...' ashamedly whispered to Daria Alexandrovna.
Alexey Alexandrovich laughed in contempt.
He knew that a long time ago, but it couldn't have been relevant to his case.
'You love those who hate you, but you cannot love those you hate.'
I'm sorry I upset you.
Everyone has enough grief! 'And, having mastered himself, Alexis Alexandrovich quietly said goodbye and left.
When they got up from behind the table, Levin wanted to go after Kitty in the living room; but he was afraid that she would find it unpleasant because of the obvious nature of his courtship for her.
He stayed in the men's circle, accepting happiness in the general conversation, and without looking at Kitty, felt her movements, her views, and the place she was in the living room.
He has now fulfilled, without the slightest effort, the promise he made to her -- always think well of all people and always love everyone.
The conversation came about a community in which Peskov saw a special beginning called the choir start.
Levin disagreed neither with Pessov nor with his brother, who somehow recognized and rejected the importance of the Russian community.
But he spoke to them, trying only to reconcile them and soften their objections.
He had no interest in what he himself had said, much less what they had said, and only wished for one thing -- that they and all should be well and pleased.
He knew now what was important.
And that one was first there in the living room, and then it started moving and stopped by the door.
Without turning around, he felt a glance and a smile and couldn't help but turn around.
She stood in the door with Scherbatsky and looked at him.
'I thought you were going to the piano,' he said, approaching her. 'This is what I lack in the village: music.
'No, we only went to call you, and thank you,' she said, as a gift, giving him a smile, 'that you had come.
What's the problem with arguing?
'Cause one never convinces the other.
'Yes, it is true,' said Levin, 'for the most part, you argue hotly only because you can't understand exactly what the enemy wants to prove.
Levin often noticed in disputes between the smartest people that after a great deal of effort, a great amount of logic and words, the disputants finally came to realize that what they had fought for a long time to prove to each other, long ago, from the beginning of the dispute, was known to them, but that they loved different things and therefore did not want to say what they loved to avoid being challenged.
He often felt that sometimes, during a dispute, you would understand what the enemy loved, and suddenly you would love it yourself, and at once you would accept it, and then all the arguments would go away as unnecessary; and sometimes you would feel the opposite: you would finally say what you loved and why you made up the argument, and if it happened that you would say it well and sincerely, then the opponent would agree and stop arguing.
That's what he meant.
She wrinkled her forehead, trying to understand.
But he just started explaining, she already understood.
'I understand, we need to find out what he's arguing about, what he loves, then we can...'
She guessed quite well and expressed his ill-expressed thoughts.
Levin smiled happily, as he was impressed by this transition from a confused, multiword dispute with Pessov and his brother to this concise and clear, almost wordless, message of the most difficult thoughts.
And Shcherbatsky departed from them, and Kitty came to the folded table of cards, and sat down, and took in the hand of the small ones, and drew them on the new green bitch of the divided circles.
They resumed the conversation at luncheon on women &apos; s freedom and occupation.
Levin agreed with the view of Darya Alexandrovna that a girl who had not married would find a woman's cause in the family.
He confirmed that no family could do without a helper, that every poor and rich family had, and should have, babysitters, employees, or family members.
'No,' said Kitty red, but the braver looking at him with her true eyes, 'the girl can be so inclined that she cannot enter the family without humiliation, but herself...
He understood her with a hint.
'Oh! Yes! 'He said, 'Yes, yes, yes, you are right, you are right!
And he understood everything he could at lunch prove to the Sandsov about women's freedom only by seeing in Kitty's heart the fear of virginity and humiliation, and by loving her, he felt that fear and humiliation and immediately retracted his arguments.
There's been a silence.
She kept making chalk on the table.
Her eyes glittered softly.
Subjecting to her mood, he felt the growing tension of happiness throughout his being. I don't know.
'Ah! I've made up the whole table!' she said, and by putting down the chalk, she made a move, like she wanted to get up.
"How am I gonna be alone without her?" 'He thought with horror, and took the crumb.' 'Wait,' he said, sitting on the table. 'I've wanted to ask you one thing for a long time.
He looked right into her affectionate eyes, even though he was scared.
'Please ask.
'Here,' he said, and wrote the initial letters: by, in, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh...
They said, "When did you say to me, 'This can't be, did it mean that it was never, or then?'"
There was no possibility that she could understand that complex phrase; but he looked at her with such a view that his life depended on whether she understood those words.
She took a serious look at him, then she had a frowny forehead on her hand and started reading.
She sometimes looked at him, asking him, "Is that what I think it is?"
'I understand,' she said, blushing.
'What word is that?' 'He said, pointing to the n, which meant the word never.'
'This word means never,' she said, 'but it is not true!
He quickly erased the writing, gave her chalk, and stood up.
She wrote, uh, me, uh, and, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh...
Dolly was very content with the grief caused by her conversation with Alexei Alexandrovich when she saw these two figures: Kitty, with a small in her hand and a smile of shy and happy looking up at Levin, and his beautiful, beautiful frog, leaning over the table, with his burning eyes on the table, upon her.
All of a sudden, he's blazing, he gets it.
It meant, "then I couldn't answer it otherwise."
He looked at her questionably, shyly.
'Only then?'
'Yes,' answered her smile.
'And t...
And now? 'He asked.'
'Well, read it.
I'll say what I want. I wish I could! 'She wrote the initial letters:,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.
It meant "so that you could forget and forgive what happened."
He grabbed the chalk with his intense, trembling fingers and broke it and wrote the initial letters: "I have nothing to forget and forgive, I have never stopped loving you."
She looked at him with a smile.
'I understand,' she whispered.
He sat down and wrote a long phrase.
She understood everything, and she didn't ask him, did she? I took the chalk, and I answered immediately.
He could not understand what she had written for a long time and often looked into her eyes.
He's been eclipsed by happiness.
There was no way he could frame the words she understood; but in the lovely, happy eyes of her, he understood everything he needed to know.
And he wrote three letters.
But he hasn't finished writing yet, and she's already read behind his hand, and she's finished and recorded the answer: Yes.
'Do you play the secretariat?' 'He said to the old prince, coming.' 'Well, let's go, though, if you want to go to the theater.
Levin stood up and walked Kitty to the door.
Everything was said to them in their conversation. It was said that she loved him, and that she would tell his father and mother that he would come tomorrow morning.
When Kitty left and Levin was left alone, he felt so anxious without her and so impatient a desire to live quickly until tomorrow morning, when he would see her again and join her forever, that he was afraid, like death, of the fourteen hours he had to spend without her.
He had to be and talk to someone so he wouldn't be alone to fool time.
Stepan Arkadić would have been the nicest person to talk to, but he was on his way, as he said, to the evening, actually to the ballet.
Levin was only able to tell him that he was happy and that he loved him and would never, ever forget what he had done for him.
The look and smile of Stepan Arkadiyić showed Levin how he understood that feeling.
'Well, isn't it time to die?' 'Stepan Arkadić said, shaking Levin's hand with pity.
'Nnneth! 'Said Levin.'
When she said goodbye to him, she also kind of congratulated him, saying: 'How glad I am that you have met Kitty again, you must cherish old friendships.
But Levin was not pleased with these words of Darya Aleandrov.
She couldn't understand how it was all high and inaccessible to her, and she shouldn't have dared mention it.
Levin said goodbye to them, but in order not to be alone, he began to cling to his brother.
'Where are you going?
'I am in a meeting.
'Well, I'm with you.
May I?
'Why? 'Let's go,' said Koznyshev, smiling. 'What is wrong with you today?
'With me?
Happy with me! 'Said Levin, dropping down the window of the boat in which they were driving.' 'Are you all right? 'Cause it's hot.
Happy with me!
Why didn't you ever get married?
'I am very pleased, she seems to be a glorious de...' started Sergei Ivanovic.
'Don't say, don't say, don't say! 'Screamed Levin, grabbing him with both hands by the collar of his coat and smelling it.'
"She's a nice girl" was such simple, base words that were so inappropriate to his senses.
Koznyshev laughed at the funny laugh he rarely had.
'Well, I can still say that I am very happy about it.
'It can be tomorrow, tomorrow, and nothing else! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's quiet!' said Levin, and when he smelled it again, he added:---I love you very much!
Well, can I be in the meeting?
'Of course you can.
'What are you talking about now?' 'I asked Levin not to stop smiling.
They came to the meeting. Levin listened as a secretary, in writing, reading a protocol that he apparently did not understand; but Levin saw in the face of that secretary how kind, kind, and glorious he was.
This could be seen by the way he messed up and embarrassed by reading the protocol.
Then the speeches started.
They argued about the withdrawal of some sums and about the holding of some pipes, and Sergei Ivanovov hurt two members and spoke for a very long time; and another member, writing something on a piece of paper, moored at first, but then answered him very poisonously and nicely.
And then Sviyazhsky said something so beautiful and noble, too.
Levin listened to them, and clearly saw that neither those sums, nor the pipes, nor any of them, and that they were not angry at all at all, and that they were all such kind, glorious people, and so it was all good, good between them.
They didn't bother anyone, and everyone was pleased.
It was wonderful for Levin that they were all visible to him today, and by small, previously invisible signs, he recognized each other's soul and clearly saw that they were all kind. Especially him, Levina, they all loved him very much today.
It was evident from the way they spoke to him, how gentle they looked at him with love, even to strangers.
'Are you happy?' 'Saying to him, Koznyshev.'
'Very.
I didn't think it was that interesting!
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Sviyazhsky approached Levin and invited him to drink tea.
Levin could not understand and remember what he was displeased with in Sviyazhsky, what he was looking for from him.
He was a smart and amazingly kind man.
'It is very good,' he said, and asked about his wife and his sister-in-law.
And according to a strange way of thinking, since in his imagination the thought of Sviyazhsky's sister-in-law was involved with the marriage, he felt that it would be better for no one to tell his happiness as Sviyazhsky's wife and sister-in-law, and he was very happy to go to them.
Sviyazhsky questioned him about his case in the village, as always, without any possibility of finding anything that had not been found in Europe, and it was no longer unpleasant to Levin.
On the other hand, he felt that Sviyazhsky was right, that the matter was null and void, and he saw an amazing tenderness and tenderness with which Sviyazhsky avoided saying his right.
The ladies of Sviyazhsky were especially nice. Levin felt that they all already knew and sympathized with him, but did not speak only out of sensitivity.
He sat with them for an hour, two, three, talking about different things, but he implied one thing that filled his soul, and he didn't notice that he was annoying to them and that it was long overdue for them to sleep.
Sviyazhsky walked him to the front, the winter, and surprised by the strange state in which his friend was living.
It was the second hour.
Levin returned to the hotel and was apprehensive about how he would now spend the ten hours he had left with his own eyes.
The sleeping footman lit his candles and wanted to leave, but Levin stopped him.
The footman, Egor, whom Levin had not previously noticed, turned out to be a very smart and good man and, above all, a kind man.
'What, is it difficult, Egor, not to sleep?
'What to do!
Our position is like this.
The gentlemen are the deadliest, but there are more calculations here.
Turns out Egorah had a family, a boy and a seamstress's daughter, who he wanted to marry to a professor in a show shop.
Levin told Egora on this occasion that it was love that mattered, and that with love you would always be happy, because happiness is only in you.
Egor listened carefully and apparently fully understood Levin's point, but in view of her, he made an unexpected remark to Levin that when he lived with good gentlemen, he was always pleased with his lords and was quite pleased with his master, even though he was French.
"A strangely kind man," Levin thought.
'Well, did you, Egor, when you got married, love your wife?
'How can I not love you,' answered Egor.
Levin saw that Egor was also in an enthralled state and intended to express all his feelings.
'My life is also amazing.
'I am a sympathetic...' he began, glistening with his eyes, apparently infected with Levin's enthusiasm, just as people infect themselves with the soothing.
But at that time the call was heard: Egor went away, and Levin was left alone.
He hardly ate anything at lunch, refused tea and dinner at Sviyazhski's, but couldn't think of dinner.
He didn't sleep last night, but he couldn't think about sleeping.
The room was fresh, but he was strangled by heat.
He opened both forts and sat on the table against the fort. Because of the snow-coated roofs, you can see the chained cross and above it -- the rising triangle of the constellation of Voznica with the yellow-skinned Capella.
He looked at the cross, he looked at the star, he breathed into himself fresh cold air, running into the room evenly, and, as in a dream, he watched the images and memories that appeared in his imagination.
At 4:00, he heard the steps in the hallway and looked out the door.
This was coming back from a friend of his, uh, meatball from the club.
He walked darkly, drowned and coughed up.
"Poor, miserable!" 'I thought, Levin, and tears came to his eyes out of love and pity for this man.'
He wanted to talk to him, to comfort him; but when he remembered that he was wearing the same shirt, he thought and sat down again at the fork to bathe in the cold air and to look at this strange shape, the silent but full cross and the yellow-tanning star.
At 7:00 a.m., the towels came in, called some service, and Levin felt that he was starting to freak out.
He closed the fort, washed himself, dressed himself, and went outside.
The streets were still empty.
Levin went to the house of the Shcherbatskys.
The front doors were locked and everything was asleep.
He went back, went back into the room and demanded coffee.
The day foot, not Egor, has brought it to him.
Levin wanted to talk to him, but the footman got a call and he left.
Levin tried to drink coffee and put it in his mouth, but his mouth did not know what to do with it.
Levin spit out his punk, put on his coat, and went to walk again.
It was the tenth hour when he came to Scherbatsky's porch for the second time.
They just got up in the house, and the chef was getting food.
You should have lived for at least two hours.
All night and morning Levin lived completely unconscious and felt completely excluded from material living conditions.
He didn't eat all day, he didn't sleep for two nights, he spent a few hours undressed on the cold, and he felt not only fresh and healthy as ever, but he felt completely independent of the body: he moved without muscle effort and felt that everything could be done.
He was sure he'd fly up or move the corner of the house if he needed it.
He spent the rest of his time on the streets, constantly looking at his watches and looking around.
And what he saw then, he never saw after that.
In particular, the children who went to school, the doves, the doves, who flew from the roof to the sidewalk, and the saikis, who were filled with flour, who put out an invisible hand, touched him.
These saikis, pigeons, and two boys were non-earth creatures.
All of this happened at the same time: the boy ran up to the pigeon and, smiling, looked at Levin; the pigeon cracked his wings and ploughed off, shiny in the sun between the shivering dust of snow in the air, and from the window smelled the spirit of the baked bread and the haze stood out.
All of this together was so extraordinaryly good that Levin laughed and cried out of joy.
After making a large circle on the newspaper alley and Kislovka, he returned to the hotel and set his watch and sat down waiting for twelve.
The next room said something about cars and deception and coughed up morning cough.
They didn't realize the shooter was approaching 12.
The shooter came up.
Levin went out on the porch.
The drivers obviously knew.
They surrounded Levin with happy faces, arguing among themselves and offering their services.
In an effort not to offend the other drivers, and promised to travel with them, Levin took one and told him to go to Shcherbatsky.
The horseman was adorable in a white, stitched up from under the caftan and pulled on the red, tight neck of the shirt.
The horse was good and tried to run, but did not move.
The driver knew the house of the Shcherbatskys and, especially with respect to the se--the doc round his hands and say "pra," he planted it at the entrance.
Scherbatsky's doorman probably knew everything.
You could see it by the smile of his eye and the way he said,
'Well, it hasn't been a long time, Constantin Dmitrich!
Not only did he know everything, but he evidently rejoiced and made efforts to hide his joy.
By looking into his old lovely eyes, Levin realized even something new in his happiness.
'Are you up?'
'Please!
'Cause leave it here,' he said, smiling when Levin wanted to come back to take the hat.
It meant something.
'Would you like to report to whom?' 'I asked the footman.'
The footman was young and new, but he was a very kind and good man, and he also understood...
'The Princess...'
Prince...
Princess...' said Levin.
The first person he saw was Mademoiselle Linon.
She walked through the hall, and the bouquets and her face glowed.
He had just spoken to her when the sound of the dress was heard outside the door, and Mademoiselle Linon disappeared from Levin's eyes, and the joyous horror of the proximity of his happiness came to him.
Mademoiselle Linon rushed and, leaving him, went to the other door.
She just got out, quick-speed light steps sounded on the park, and his happiness, his life, he himself -- the best of himself, what he's been looking for and wanting for for so long, quickly and quickly approaching him.
She didn't go, but some invisible force came to him.
He saw only her clear, true eyes, frightened of the same joy of love that filled his heart.
These eyes glowed closer and closer, blinding him with their love light.
She stopped near him, touching him.
Her hands went up and fell on his shoulders.
She did everything she could -- she ran up to him and gave up all of her robe and joyous.
He hugged her and put his lips on her mouth, looking for his kiss.
She's been up all night, and she's been waiting for him all morning.
Mother and father were indisputably agreeable and happy with her happiness.
She was waiting for him.
She wanted to announce her happiness to him first.
She prepared to meet him alone, and rejoiced in that thought, and she crumbled, and was ashamed, and did not know what she would do.
She heard his footsteps and voice and waited outside the door until Mademoiselle Linon left.
Mademoiselle Linon left.
Without thinking, without asking herself how or what, she approached him and did what she had done.
'Let's go to Mom! 'She said, by holding his hand.'
He hadn't been able to say anything for a long time, not so much because he was afraid of the word to ruin his senses, but because every time he wanted to say something, instead of saying it, he felt like he was gonna tear his tears out of happiness.
He took her hand and kissed her.
'Is it true? 'He said, at last, with a deaf voice.' 'I can't believe you love me!
She smiled at that "you" and the shyness with which he looked at her. 'Yes!' much, she spoke slowly. 'I am so happy!
She didn't let his hands out, she walked into the living room. The Princess, when she saw them, breathed often and immediately wept and immediately laughed at the same energy move Levin did not expect, ran up to them and hugged Levin's head, kissed him, and soaked his cheeks with tears.
'So it's over!
I'm glad.
Love her.
I'm glad...
Kitty!
'We shall soon be settled! 'The old prince said, trying to be indifferent; but Levin noticed that his eyes were damp when he turned to him.' 'I've always wanted this for a long time! 'He said, taking Levin's hand, and drawing him to himself. 'I was there when the windshield thought...'
'Dad! 'Screamed Kitty and covered her mouth with her hands.'
'Well, I won't!' he said. 'I am very, very...
Ahh! I don't know how stupid I am.
He hugged Kitty, kissed her face, arm, face again, and crossed her face.
And Levin embraced a new feeling of love for this previously alien man, an old prince, as he watched Kitty kiss his meaty hand long and tenderly.
The Princess sat in the chair silently, and smiled: the prince sat beside her.
Kitty stood by her father's chair without letting out his hand.
Everyone kept quiet.
The Princess first called it all words and translated all thoughts and feelings into matters of life. And everyone's just as weird and hurting as it was in the first minute.
'When?
We have to bless and announce.
When's the wedding?
What do you think, Alexander?
'Here he is,' said the old prince, pointing to Levin, 'he is the chief man here.
'When? 'Said Levin, blushing.' 'Tomorrow.
If you're asking me, I think it's time to bless the wedding tomorrow.
'Well, that's a lot, mon cher, nonsense!
'Well, in a week.
'He's definitely crazy.
'No, why not?
'Oh, have mercy!' said the mother, smiling with joy at that haste. 'And the dowry?
"Will there be a dowry and all this? 'I thought Levin with horror.' 'And yet, can a dowry and a blessing, and all of this -- can it ruin my happiness?'
Nothing can ruin it!"
He looked at Kitty and noticed that she had no, no insult to the idea of dowry.
"It's worth it," he thought.
'I know nothing, I only said my wish,' he said, apologizing.
'That's how we're gonna figure it out.
Now you can bless and announce.
That's right.
The Princess went up to her husband, kissed him, and wanted to go: but he held her, hugged her, and gently, as a young man in love, smiled several times, and kissed her.
The old men obviously got confused for a minute and didn't know if they were in love again or just their daughter.
When the prince came out with the princess, Levin approached his bride and took her hand.
He now had control of himself and could speak, and he had a lot to say to her. But he didn't say what he needed to say.
'How I knew it would be like this!
I never hoped; but in my heart I was always sure,' he said. 'I believe it was meant to be.'
'And me? 'She said.' 'Even then...' she stopped and continued to look at him with her true eyes, with determination, 'even as I pushed my happiness away from me. I've always loved you alone, but I was attracted to you.
I have to say... can you forget that?
'Maybe it's for the best.
You have a lot to forgive.
I have to tell you...
That was one of the things he decided to tell her.
He decided to tell her two things from the first days -- that he wasn't as clean as she was, and the other -- that he wasn't. It was painful, but he thought he had to say both.
'No, not now, after!' he said.
'All right, after, but surely tell me.'
I'm not afraid of anything.
I need to know everything.
It's over now.
He said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
'It is over that you will take me, no matter what I may be, you won't give up on me?
Yeah?
'Yes, yes.
Their conversation was interrupted by a mademoiselle Linon, who, while pretending to have a soft smile, came to congratulate her beloved child.
She hasn't come out yet, as the servants came in with their congratulations.
Then came the family, and that blissful humour from which Levin had not left until the other day of his wedding.
Levin was constantly embarrassed, bored, but the stress of happiness was rising.
He always felt that he needed a lot of things that he didn't know, and he did everything he was told, all of which made him happy.
He thought that his matrimony would have nothing like the others, that the usual terms of matrimony would ruin his special happiness; but he ended up doing the same thing as others, and his happiness was only increased and made more and more special, without having or having anything like it.
'Now we will eat candy,' said M-lle Linon, 'and Levin was going to buy candy....
Well, I'm very glad -- said Sviyazhsky. 'I advise you to take the bouquets from Tomin.
'Do I have to?' 'And he was on his way to Fomin.
My brother told him he needed to borrow money, because there's gonna be a lot of expenses, presents...
'Do you want presents?' 'And he leapt toward Fulda.
Both the pastry man and Foomin and Fuld saw that they were waiting for him, that he was happy and happy, just like everyone he was dealing with these days.
It was extraordinary that not only was he loved, but all previously unattractive, cold, indifferent people admired him, obeyed him in all things, tenderly and sensitively treated him and shared his belief that he was the happiest man in the world because his bride was superior to perfection.
That's what Kitty felt.
When Countess Nordston allowed herself to hint that she wanted something better, Kitty was so excited and so convincingly proved that Levin couldn't be better than anything in the world, that Countess Nordston had to admit it, and in the presence of Kitty without a smile of admiration she no longer met Levin.
The explanation he promised was one difficult event at the time.
He consulted with the old prince and, after obtaining his permission, handed over to Kitty his diary, which had written what had tormented him.
He wrote this diary in the future of the bride. He was tormented by two things: his innocence and his disbelief.
Confessed in unbelief, it went undetected.
She was religious, never doubted about the truth of religion, but his external disbelief did not even affect her at all.
She knew the love of his soul, and in his soul she saw what she wanted, and what was called the state of the soul to be infidel, she didn't care.
Another confession made her cry bitterly.
Levin gave her his diary, not without an internal struggle.
He knew that there could and should not be a secret between him and her, so he decided that he should; but he did not realize how it could work, and he did not pass into it.
It was only on that evening that he came to them in front of the theater, entered her room, and saw the crying, the unrequited, the grief he had produced, the pitiful and cute face, that he understood the twilight that separated his shame from her pigeon's purity, and was apprehensive of what he had done.
'Take, take these terrible books!' she said, pushing away the notebooks lying in front of her. 'Why did you give them to me?'
No, it's better, after all,' she added, feeling sorry for his desperate face. 'But it is awful, awful!
He dropped his head and kept quiet. He couldn't say anything.
'You will not forgive me,' he whispered.
'No, I forgave you, but it's awful!
However, his happiness was so great that the confession did not violate him, but only gave him a new shade.
She forgave him; but since then he has felt even more unworthy of her, bowed down to her morally, and valued his undeserved happiness even more.
Involuntarily recapturing in his memory the impression of conversations that took place during and after lunch, he returned to his lonely number.
Daria Alexandrovna's words about forgiveness were only annoying.
The application or not of the Christian rule to his case was too difficult a question that could not be said a little, and it was long ago settled by Alexey Alexandrovich in the negative.
Of all the things that have been said, the words of the foolish, kind Tourovtsin have fallen into his imagination. They have done well; they have called to the duel, and they have killed.
Everyone obviously felt sorry for it, even though they didn't say it out of courtesy.
"Otherwise, this case is over, there's nothing to think about," he said to himself. And when he was only thinking of the coming departure and the audit work, he entered his number and asked the escort doorman where his footman was; the doorman said that the footman had just come out.
Aleksey Alexandrovich ordered himself to serve tea, sat down at the table, and, after taking Frum, began to make sense of the journey.
'Two telegrams,' said the returned footman. Going into the room. 'Excuse me, Your Excellency, I just got out.
Alexei Alexandrovich took the telegrams and printed them out.
The first telegram was news of Stramov's appointment to the very place Karenin wanted.
Alexei Alexandrovich left the decopes and, blushing, stood up and snooped around the room.
"Quos volt perdere dementat", he said, knowing under quos those who had contributed to that appointment.
He wasn't sad that he didn't get this place, that he was obviously bypassed, but he didn't understand, it was amazing how they didn't see that a chatterer, a Frasier Stremov, was less capable of it than anyone else.
How they did not see that they were ruining themselves, their prestige with this appointment!
"Something else of that kind," he said to himself gallows, opening up a second draft.
The telegram was from my wife. Her signature with a blue pencil, "Anna," first threw itself into his eyes.
"I'm dying, please, please come.
"I will die with more forgiveness," he read.
He smiled in contempt and threw a telegram.
That it was a trick and a trick, that, as he thought at first minute, there could be no doubt.
"There's no trick she'd stop at.
She has to give birth. Could be a birth disease.
But what is their purpose?
To legitimize the child, to compromise me, and to prevent the divorce, he thought. 'But something says, "I'm dying..."
He translated the telegram, and suddenly the exact meaning of what was said in it struck him.
"What if it's true? 'He said to himself. 'If it is true that in a time of suffering and near death she sincerely repents-- and I take it for a lie, will I refuse to come?'
It's not only gonna be cruel, and everyone's gonna judge me, but it's gonna be stupid of me."
'Peter, stop the carriage.
I am going to Petersburg,' he said to the footman.
Alexei Alexandrovich decided that he would go to Petersburg and see his wife.
If her illness is a lie, he'll keep quiet and leave. If she really is sick at death and wants to see him before death, then he will forgive her if he is alive and pay the last debt if he comes too late.
All the way, he didn't think about what he'd do anymore.
With the sense of fatigue and filth produced at night in a wagon, in the early fog of Petersburg, Alexis Alexandrovich traveled through the wilderness of Neves and looked before him without thinking of what was to be expected of him.
He could not think about it because, as he imagined what would happen, he could not repel the assumption that her death would unveil at once the complexity of his situation.
Breadcloths, shops locked up, night drivers, janitors, swinging sidewalks in his eyes, and he watched it all, trying to silence the idea of what was waiting for him and what he dared not and did not want. He drove up to the porch.
A driver and a carriage with a sleeper was standing at the door.
As he entered the hay, he sort of took out a solution from the long corner of his brain and dealt with it.
It was said, "If it is a lie, it is contemptible, and leave. "If the truth is true, then observe decency."
The door was opened by the doorman before Alexei Alexandrovich called.
Peter's doorman, otherwise Capitonich, had a strange appearance in his old suit, without a tie, and in his shoes.
'What is the lady?
'Yesterday was resolved safely.'
Alexei Alexandrovich stopped and turned pale.
He now understood the strength with which he wanted her dead.
'And health?
The roots in the morning apron escaped from the stairs.
'Very bad,' he replied. 'There was a doctor's convention yesterday, and now the doctor is here.
'Take your things,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, and with some relief from the news that there is a hope of death, he entered the front.
There was a military coat on the rack. Alexei Alexandrovich noticed this and asked:
'Who is there?
'Doctor, midwife and Count Wronsky.
Alexei Alexandrovich went into the inner rooms.
There was no one in the living room; a midwife in a purple ribbon cap came out of her office at the sound of his steps.
She approached Alexei Alexandrovich and took him by the hand and led him to the bedroom with the family of the nearness of death.
'Thank God you're here!
Only about you and about you,' she said.
'Give me the ice quickly!' said the doctor's noble voice from the bedroom.
Alexei Alexandrovich went to her office.
At her desk, she sat side by side on a low chair and, with her hands covered her face, cried.
He jumped into the doctor's voice, took his hands off his face, and saw Alexei Alexandrovich.
When he saw his husband, he was so embarrassed that he sat down again, pulling his head into his shoulders, as if he wanted to disappear somewhere; but he made an effort upon himself, and rose up, and said,
'She is dying.
The doctors said there was no hope.
I'm all yours, but let me be here... even though I'm yours, I'm...
When he saw his tears, he felt the tide of the mental disorder that caused other people to suffer in him, and, turning his face away, he rushed to the door without listening to his words.
The bedroom heard Anna's voice saying something.
Her voice was hilarious, lively, with extremely specific tone.
Alexey Alexandrovich entered the bedroom and went to the bed.
She lay face-to-face.
The cheeks groaned, the eyes glittered, the little white hands leaning out of the sweater's cuff, playing, twisting it, the corner of the blanket.
She seemed not only healthy and fresh, but in the best position of spirit.
She spoke soon, loudly, and with incredibly correct and sensitive tone.
'Cause Alexei, I'm talking about Alexei Alexandrovich.), Alexei wouldn't refuse me.
I'd forget, he'd forgive...
Why isn't he coming?
He's kind, he doesn't know how good he is.
Oh, my God, it's so sad!
Give me some water!
Oh, that's gonna hurt my girl!
All right, well, give her a nurse.
Well, I agree, it's even better.
He'll come, he'll be hurt to see her.
Give her back.
'Anna Arkadievna, he has come.
There he is!-- said the midwife, trying to draw her attention to Alexei Alexandrovich.
'Oh, this is nonsense!' Anna continued without seeing her husband. 'Give it to me, girl, give it to me!
He's not here yet.
You're saying you won't forgive me if you don't know him. No one knew.
I'm the only one who's been hard on me.
His eyes, you should know, Serezha's exactly the same, and I can't see them from that.
Did Serezha get lunch?
'Cause I know everyone's gonna forget.
He wouldn't forget.
Serezha needs to be transferred to coal and Mariette to lie down with him.
Suddenly, she squeezed, quieted, and scared, as if waiting to be struck, as if defending herself, raised her hands to her face. She saw her husband.
'No, no,' she said, 'I am not afraid of him, I am afraid of death.
Alexei, come here.
I'm in a hurry because I don't have time, I have a little time to live, it's gonna get hot, and I don't get it.
Now I understand, and I understand, I see everything.
Alexey Alexandrovich's wrinkled face accepted a painful expression; he took her by the hand and wanted to say something, but he could not speak; his lower lip shivered, but he was still struggling with his excitement and only occasionally staring at her.
And every time he looked, he saw her eyes, who looked at him with the tenderness and delight he had never seen in them.
'Wait, you don't know...'
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 'Yes, she did. 'Yes, yes, yes, yes.
That's what I was gonna say.
Don't be surprised at me. I'm still the same...
But there's another one in me, I'm afraid -- she fell in love, and I wanted to hate you, and I couldn't forget the one that was before. That's not me.
Now I'm real, I'm all.
I'm dying now, I know I'm gonna die, ask him.
I can feel it now, there they are, poodles on their hands, on their feet, on their fingers.
Fingers are huge!
But it'll all be over soon...
I need one thing: I'm sorry, I'm sorry at all!
I'm terrible, but the nanny said to me, "Sacred martyr." What was her name? 'She was worse.'
And I'm gonna go to Rome, there's a desert, and then I'm not gonna bother anyone, only Serezha and the girl... no, you can't forgive me!
I know this can't be forgiven!
No, no, go away, you're too good! 'She held his hand with one hot hand; she pushed him away with another.
Alexey Alexandrovich's mental disorder grew to such an extent that he had already stopped fighting him; he suddenly felt that what he considered to be a mental disorder was, on the contrary, a blessed state of mind, which suddenly gave him a new, never-tested happiness.
He did not think that the Christian law he wanted to follow all his life required him to forgive and love his enemies; but a joyful feeling of love and forgiveness for his enemies filled his soul.
He stood on his knees, and put his head on the bend of her hand, which burned him with fire through his shirt, and wept like a child.
She hugged his filthy head, moved toward him, and raised her eyes to the top with pride.
'Here he is, I knew it!
Now, goodbye everyone, goodbye!
They're here again, why don't they come out?
Get those coats off me!
The doctor took her hands, carefully put her on the pillow and covered her shoulders.
She humbled herself and looked at herself with a shining glance.
'Remember one thing, that I needed one forgiveness, and that's all I want...'
Why isn't he coming? 'She spoke, turning to the door of Vronski.' 'Come, come!
Give him your hand.
He went up to the edge of the bed, and when he saw it, he covered his face again with his hands.
'Open your face, look at him.
He is a saint,' she said. 'Come on, open your face! 'She spoke angryly.' 'Alexei Alexandrovich, open his face!
I want to see him.
Aleksey Alexandrovich took the hands of Wronsky and took them off the face of the terrible suffering and shame that were upon him.
'Give him your hand.
Forgive him.
Alexei Alexandrovich gave him his hand without holding back the tears that had poured out of his eyes.
'Thank God, thank God,' she said, 'now everything is ready.
Just stretch your legs a little.
That's it, that's it.
How these flowers are made without taste, not like a violet at all,' she said, pointing to the wallpaper. 'Oh, my God, my God!
When's this gonna end?
Give me the morphine.
Doctor! Give me some morphine.
Oh, my God, my God!
And she was in bed.
'----the Doctor and the doctors said it was a birth fever with 99 out of 100, which would end in death.'
The whole day was hot, delusional and unconscious.
By midnight, the patient had no feelings and almost no pulse.
Waiting for the end every minute.
He went home, but in the morning he came to find out, and when he met him in the front, he said, 'Stay, perhaps she will ask you,' and he himself took him to his wife's office.
In the morning, the excitement, the vigor, the speed of thought, and the speech began again, and came to an end with ignorance.
The third day was the same, and the doctors said there was hope.
On that day, Alexey Alexandrovich went out to the office where he was sitting, and locked the door and sat down against him.
'Alexei Alexandrovich,' he said, feeling that the explanation was coming, 'I can't speak, I can't understand.
Spare me!
As hard as it is for you, believe me, I'm even more awful.
He wanted to get up. But Alexei Alexandrovich took his hand and said,
'I ask you to listen to me, it is necessary.
I must explain to you my feelings, the ones who guided me and will guide you so that you will not be misled about me.
You know I've decided to divorce and I've even started this case.
I will not hide from you that I was indecisive at the beginning of the matter; I have been tormented; I confess to you that the desire to avenge you and her persecuted me.
When I received the telegram, I came here with the same feelings, I said more, I wanted her dead.
But...'he wasn't thinking, whether to open up, or not to open up his feelings to him. 'But I saw her and forgave her.
And the happiness of forgiveness revealed my responsibility.
I completely forgave.
I want to set up another cheek, I want to give my shirt when they take my kaftan, and I pray to God that he doesn't take away my happiness of forgiveness! 'Tears stood in his eyes, and they were struck by a bright, calm look. 'This is my position.
You can trample me into the mud, make me laugh at the light, I will not leave it, and I will never say a word of reproach to you,' he continued. 'My duty is clear to me: I must be with her, and I will be with her.'
If she wants to see you, I'll let you know, but now I think you'd better leave.
He got up, and the crying interrupted his speech.
He went up, too, and looked at him in a bent, indistinct state.
He didn't understand Alexei Alexandrovich's feelings. But he felt that it was something higher and even inaccessible to him in his worldview.
After talking to Alexei Alexandrovich, Wronsky went out to the porch of the Karenni house and stopped, barely remembering where he was and where he needed to go or go.
He felt ashamed, humiliated, guilty, and unable to wash away his humiliation.
He felt knocked out of the way he had walked so proudly and easily until now.
All those who seemed so firm, the habits and statutes of his life suddenly turned out to be false and unapplicable.
A cheated husband, who was still a pitiful creature, an accidental and somewhat comedicic obstacle to his happiness, was suddenly summoned by her herself, raised to a sublime height, and this husband appeared at this height not evil, not fake, not funny, but kind, simple, and grand.
I couldn't help but feel it.
The roles suddenly changed.
He felt his height and his humiliation, his rightness, and his untruth.
He felt that his husband was generous and in his grief, and he was low and petty in his deception.
But this lowness of mind in front of the man whom he unjustly despised was only a small part of his grief.
He felt unbelievably unhappy now because his passion for Anna, which had been cooled, seemed to him lately, now that he knew that he had lost her forever, had become stronger than ever.
He saw her all during her illness, recognized her soul, and he felt that he had never loved her until then.
And now that he had recognized her, loved her as he should have loved her, he was humiliated in front of her and lost her forever, leaving one shameful memory of himself in her.
What was most awful was that ridiculous, shameful position of his when he ripped his hands off his ashamed face.
He stood on the porch of Karen's house like he was lost and didn't know what to do.
'Will you order the driver?' 'The doorman asked.'
'Yes, the driver.
When he returned home after three sleepless nights, he lay down on the couch without stripping himself, folding his hands and putting his head on them.
His head was heavy.
The strangest impressions, memories, and thoughts, with extraordinary speed and clarity, changed one another: that was the drug that he poured over the spoon, then the white hands of the midwife, and the strange position of Alexey Alexandrovich on the floor in front of the bed.
"Sleep! Forget it!" 'He said to himself, with the calm confidence of a healthy man, that if he was tired and sleepy, he would fall asleep now.
And indeed, at the same moment, he became confused in his head, and he began to fall into the abyss of oblivion.
The waves of unconscious life in the sea began to come together over his head all of a sudden -- as if the most powerful electricity had been discharged into him -- he shuddered so that the whole body jumped on the springs of the couch and jumped up to his knees with fear.
His eyes were wide open as if he had never slept.
The weight of the head and the wrinkle of the dicks he experienced in a minute suddenly disappeared.
"You can drown in the mud," he heard the words of Alexey Alexandrovich and saw him in front of himself, and saw Anna's face with hot brown and shiny eyes, with tenderness and love, looking not at him, but at Alexei Alexandrovich; he saw his silly and funny figure, as he thought he had taken him away from his face.
He pulled his legs out again and threw himself on the couch in his old pose and closed his eyes.
"Sleep! "To fall asleep!" 'He repeated it to himself.
But with his eyes closed, he saw Anna's face even clearer than it was on his commemorative evening before the races.
'It is not, and it will not, and she wishes to erase it from her memory.
And I can't live without it.
How can we make peace, how can we make peace? 'He said out loud and unconsciously repeated those words.
This repetition of words held back the emergence of new images and memories that he felt were crowding in his head.
But the repetition of words held the imagination back for a little while.
Once again, one after another began to be presented with extraordinary speed with the best moments and, together with them, with the recent humiliation.
"Take your hands off me," says Anna's voice.
He takes his hands and feels the shamed and silly expression of his face.
He lay still trying to sleep, even though he felt that there was no hope, and he kept whispering random words out of thought in order to hold back the emergence of new images.
He listened and heard a strange, crazy whisper of repeated words: "He didn't know how to appreciate, he didn't know how to use, he didn't know how to appreciate, he didn't know how to use."
"What is it? Or am I going crazy? 'He said to himself. 'Maybe.
Why do they go mad, why do they shoot?" 'He answered himself, and when he opened his eyes, he was surprised to see Vary, his brother's wife, a sewn pillow of work, beside his head.
He touched his pillow and tried to remember Var, the last time he saw her.
But it was painful to think of something foreign.
"No, we have to go to sleep!"
He moved the pillow and pressed his head against it, but he had to make an effort to keep his eyes closed.
He jumped up and sat down.
"It's over for me," he said to himself. 'We have to think about what to do.'
What's left?" His thought quickly ran away from his love for Anna.
"Everity?
Serpukhovsky?
Light?
Court?" He couldn't stop at anything.
It all made sense before, but now it's gone. He got off the couch, took off his jacket, released his belt, and, when he opened his furry chest to breathe more freely, he walked around the room.
'This is how they go mad,' he repeated, 'and so shoot... so as not to be ashamed,' he added slowly.
And he came up to the door, and closed it: then with a fixed look, and with firm teeth, he came up to the table, took a revolver, looked at it, turned it over to a loaded barrel, and thought.
Two minutes later, when he dropped his head with the expression of intense thought, he stood still with the revolver in his hand and thought.
"It will," he said to himself, as if the logical, long and clear course of thought had led him to an unmistakable conclusion.
In fact, this convincing "understands" to him was only the consequence of repeating exactly the same circle of memories and visions that he has gone through dozens of times in this hour of time.
The same were memories of happiness, lost forever, the same perception of the pointlessness of everything in life, the same consciousness of humiliation.
The same was true of the sequence of these perceptions and feelings.
"It will," he repeated, when, for the third time, his thought went back to the same enchanted circle of memories and thoughts, and by attaching a revolver to the left side of his chest and pulling his whole hand hard, as if he had squeezed her into a fist, he pulled by the gash.
He didn't hear the sound of the gunshot, but a strong blow to the chest knocked him down.
He wanted to hold on to the edge of the table, dropped the revolver, shivered and sat down on the ground, surprised to look around him.
He didn't recognize his room by looking down on the folded legs of the table, the paper basket, and the tiger skin.
The quick squeaking steps of a servant walking through the living room made him come to his senses.
He made an effort to think and realized that he was on the floor, and when he saw blood on his tiger skin and on his arm, he realized that he was shooting.
'Stupid!
He did not,' he said, with his hand behind the revolver.
The Revolver was near him,' he went on looking.
As he continued to search, he reached out to the other side and, unable to keep his balance, fell to death, bleeding to death.
An elegant servant with buckenbards, who repeatedly complained to his acquaintance about the weakness of his nerve, was so afraid to see the master lying on the floor, that he left him to bleed out and fled for help.
An hour later, Varya, the brother &apos; s wife, arrived and with the help of three doctors who she sent for, who arrived at the same time, put the victim to bed and stayed with him to follow him.
Alexey Alexandrovich &apos; s mistake in preparing for his wife &apos; s date did not reflect on the chance that her repentance would be sincere and he would forgive and she would not die -- that mistake, two months after his return from Moscow, appeared to him in all its strength.
But the mistake he made wasn't just because he didn't think about it, but because he didn't know his heart until this day of dating his dying wife.
He at his wife's bed for the first time in his life gave himself to a feeling of mercy that caused other people's suffering and that he had previously been ashamed of as a harmful weakness; and pity for her, and regret that he wanted her dead, and, above all, the joy of forgiveness did that he suddenly felt not only a reduction in his suffering but also a peace of mind that he had never experienced before.
He suddenly felt that what was the source of his suffering was a source of his spiritual joy, something that seemed insoluble when he condemned, reproached, and hated, became simple and clear when he forgave and loved.
He forgave his wife and felt sorry for her suffering and remorse.
He forgave him and felt sorry for him, especially after he heard rumors of his desperate act.
He felt sorry for his son more than ever before and blamed himself for having done too little.
But for a newborn little girl, he felt a special feeling not only of pity but also of tenderness.
At first, out of a single feeling of compassion, he took care of a weak newborn girl who was not his daughter and who was abandoned during his mother &apos; s illness and probably would have died if he hadn &apos; t taken care of her -- and he didn &apos; t see how much he loved her.
He went to the nursery a few times a day and sat there for a long time, so that the nurse and the nanny who first bred before him were used to him.
He sometimes stared silently for half an hour at the sleepy saffron-red, fluffy and shrivelled face of the child and watched the movements of the frowning forehead and the swollen hands with the fingers upside-down, rubbing the eyes and the bear.
At such moments, in particular, Aleksandrovich felt completely calm and agreeable and saw nothing unusual in his position, nothing that needed to be changed.
But the more time went by, the clearer he saw that, as natural as it is now for him, he would not be allowed to remain in it.
He felt that, apart from the good spiritual power that guided his soul, there was another, rude, just as or even more powerful force that guided his life, and that that power would not give him the humble calm he desired.
He felt that everyone was looking at him with a question-and-answer surprise that they didn't understand him and expected something from him. In particular, he felt the fragility and unnaturalness of his relationship with his wife.
When the tenderness of her near death passed, Alexandrovich began to notice that Anna was afraid of him, burdened him, and couldn't look him straight in the eye.
It's like she wanted something and didn't decide to tell him and, like, feeling that their relationship couldn't go on, she expected something from him.
At the end of February, Anna's newborn daughter, also named Anna, became ill.
Alexey Alexandrovich was in the nursery this morning, and after ordering a doctor, he went to the Ministry.
After completing his business, he returned home at four o'clock.
When he entered the front, he saw a handsome footman in the galloons and a bear pelerinque holding a white rotunda from an American dog.
'Who is there? 'Alexei Alexandrovich asked.'
'The Princess Elizabeth of Fedorovna of Tverska,' answered the footman with a smile, as it seemed to Alexei Alexandrovich.
During all this difficult time, Aleksandrovich observed that his secular acquaintances, especially women, had been particularly involved in him and his wife.
He noticed in all of these acquaintances the easily hidden joy of something, the very joy he saw in the eyes of a lawyer and now in the eyes of a footman.
It's like everyone was excited, like they were getting married.
When he was met, she was happy to be asked about her health.
The presence of Princess Tverska, and the memories associated with her, and because he did not love her at all, was unpleasant to Alexei Alexandrovich, and he went straight to the nursery.
In the first child's Serezha, lying on a table and putting his feet on a chair, drawing something with a fun sentence.
The English woman, who had replaced Anna's French woman during her illness, knitting the miniyards sitting next to the boy, quickly stood up, sat down, and pulled Serezha.
Alexey Alexandrovich touched his son's hair with his hand, answered the governess' question about her wife's health, and asked what the doctor said about the baby.
'The doctor said that there was nothing dangerous, and he prescribed a bath, sir.
'But she is all suffering,' said Alexandrovich, listening to the cry of a child in the next room.
'I think the nurse is not fit, sir,' said the English woman strongly.
'What do you think?' 'Stop, he asked.'
'That's what Countess Paul had, sir.
The child was treated, and it turned out that the child was simply hungry: the nurse was without milk, sir.
Alexey Alexandrovich thought about it and walked into the other door for a few seconds.
The girl lay in the back of her head, curled up on the hands of the feeder, and did not want to take the fat breast she offered, nor to shut up, despite the double cocking of the nurse and the nanny who had leaned over her.
'Isn't everything better? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said.'
'Very restless,' answered the nanny whispered.
'Miss Edward says that maybe the nurse doesn't have milk,' he said.
'I think so, Alexis Alexandrovich.
'So what aren't you going to say?'
'Who can I tell?'
Anna Arkadievna is not well all,' said the nanny displeased.
The nanny was an old servant at home. And in these simple words, her Alexei Alexandrovich had a hint of his position.
The baby was screaming even louder, rolling and snoring.
The nanny, waving her hand, came up to him, took him from the hand of the nurse, and began to drive.
'We have to ask the doctor to examine the nurse,' said Alexis Alexandrovich.
A healthy-looking, well-dressed nurse, afraid that she would be refused, said something under her nose, and hid her large breasts, repulsively smiled at her doubts about her milk.
In that smile, Alexi Alexandrovich, too, found a mockery of his situation.
'Unfortunate child!' said the nanny, pissed at the child, and kept walking.
Alexey Alexandrovich sat down on a chair and with a sufferer, with a sad face looking at a nanny walking back and forth.
When the quiet child was finally put into a deep bed and a nanny, after fixing the pillow, she walked away from him, and he stood up and, having difficulty reaching out to the chicks, approached the child.
From a moment of silence, and with the same sad face, he looked at the child; but suddenly a smile moved his hair and skin on his forehead, looked at his face, and he also left the room quietly.
In the dining room, he called and told the incoming servant to send for the doctor again.
He was annoyed with his wife for not caring for this pre-stairs child, and in this position he did not want to go to her, nor did he want to see Princess Betsy; but the wife might have wondered why, as usual, he did not go to her, so he made an effort to go to the bedroom.
As he walked up the soft carpet to the doors, he overheard a conversation he did not want to hear.
'If he hadn't left, I would have understood your refusal and his too.
But your husband must be above that,' said Betsy.
'I'm not for my husband, I don't want for myself.
Don't say that!-- answered Anna's agitated voice.
'Yes, but you cannot but wish to say goodbye to the man who shot because of you...
'That's why I don't want to.
Alexey Alexandrovich, with a frightened and guilty expression, stopped and wanted to leave without being seen. But when he thought it would be unworthy, he turned around again and coughed and went to the bedroom.
The voices were quiet, and he came in.
Anna, wearing a gray robe, with a short cut, thick brushing black hair on her round head, sat on the couch.
As always when she saw her husband, the rebirth of her face suddenly disappeared; she lowered her head and looked down on Betsy.
Betsy, dressed in the most recent fashion, in a hat somewhere above her head, like a cap above a lamp, and in a dress with sharp stripes on one side and on a skirt on the other, sat next to Anna, directly holding her flat tall camp, and, bowing her head down, met Alexey Alexandrovich with a laughing smile.
'Ah!' she said, as if surprised. 'I'm very glad you're home.
You're not showing up, and I haven't seen you since Anna's illness.
I've heard everything -- your concerns.
Yes, you are an amazing husband!' she said with a large and gentle appearance, as if to pity his order of generosity for what he did to his wife.
Alexey Alexandrovich bowed coldly and, after kissing his wife's hand, asked about her health.
'I think it's better,' she said, avoiding his look.
'But you look like you have a feverish face,' he said, lying down on the word 'irritating'.
'We talked too much to her,' said Betsy, 'I feel that it is selfish of me, and I am leaving.
She got up, but Anna, suddenly red, quickly grabbed her hand.
'No, please stay.
I need to tell you... no, you,' she turned to Alexei Alexandrovich, and the blush covered her neck and forehead. 'I don't want and can't have anything hidden from you,' she said.
Alexei Alexandrovich cracked his fingers and put his head down.
'Betsy said that Count Wronsky wanted to be with us to say goodbye before she left for Tashkent. 'She didn't look at her husband, and apparently she was in a hurry to say everything, as difficult as it was for her. 'I said I couldn't accept it.
'You said, my friend, that it would depend on Alexey Alexandrovich,' corrected her Betsy.
'No, I can't accept it, and it has nothing to do with...' she suddenly stopped and looked at her husband in question (he didn't look at her). 'In short, I don't want...'
Alexei Alexandrovich moved over and wanted to take her hand.
As a first move, she pulled her hand away from his moist, large, bloated hand that was looking for her; but apparently by making an effort, she shook his hand.
'I thank you very much for your trust, but...' he said, with embarrassment and displeasure, feeling that what he could easily and clearly decide with himself could not be discussed in the presence of Princess Tverska, the personification of the rude force that should have guided his life in the eyes of the world and prevented him from giving up his feelings of love and forgiveness.
He stopped looking at Princess Tversky.
'Well, goodbye, my darling,' said Betsy, getting up.
She kissed Anna and came out.
Alexei Alexandrovich walked her out.
I know you for a truly generous man,' said Betsy, staying in a small living room, particularly shaking his hand once more. 'I am an outsider, but I love her so much and respect you that I allow myself advice.
Take it.
Alexei is a personified honor, and he's going to Tashkent.
'Thank you, Princess, for your participation and advice.
But it's up to her to decide whether or not a wife can accept someone.
He said it with dignity, raised his eyebrows, and immediately thought that no matter what the words were, dignity could not be in his position. And he saw it in a discreet, angry and funny smile Betsy looked at him with after he said it.
Alexey Alexandrovich bowed to Betsy in the hall and went to his wife.
She lay there, but when she heard his footsteps, she quickly sat down and looked at him scaredly.
He saw her crying.
'I am very grateful for your trust in me,' he quietly repeated in Russian what was said in Betsy's French phrase and sat beside her.
When he spoke Russian and said "you" to her, that "you" was inexcusablely annoying to Anna. 'And very grateful for your decision.
I also believe that since he's on his way, there's no need for Count Wronsky to come here.
Anyway...
'Yeah, I said, so what do I say again?' 'Suddenly, Anna interrupted him with an irritation that she had not been able to contain.'
'No need,' she thought, 'to come to the man to say goodbye to the woman he loved, for whom he wanted to die and destroy himself, and who could not live without him.
There's no need!"
She squeezed her lips and put her shiny eyes on his hands with swollen veins that were slowly rubbing one another.
'Let us never talk about it,' she added more calmly.
'I have given you a solution to this matter, and I am very pleased to see...' was the beginning of Alexis Alexandrovich.
'That my desire coincides with yours,' she quickly finished, pissed off by what he says so slowly, while she knows what he will say.
'Yes,' he confirmed, 'and Princess Tverska interferes in the most difficult family matters completely inappropriately.
In particular, she...
'I don't believe anything they say about her,' said Anna quickly, 'I know that she truly loves me.
Alexei Alexandrovich sighed and silenced himself.
She played with her wrists, staring at him with a painful sense of physical revulsion, for which she blamed herself but could not overcome.
She now wanted only one thing: to be rid of his shameful presence.
'I have now sent for a doctor,' said Alexis Alexandrovich.
'I am healthy; why do I need a doctor?
'No, the little one screams, and it is said the nurse has little milk.
'Why didn't you let me feed when I begged for it?
Anyway, she's a kid, and he's gonna die. 'She called and told me to bring the child. 'I told you to feed, I wasn't allowed, and now I'm being reproached.
'I don't blame...'
'No, you're blaming me! Oh, my God! I don't know why I didn't die! 'And she cried. 'Forgive me, I am annoyed, I am unjust,' she said, remembering. 'But go away...
"No, it can't stay that way," he strongly said to himself, when he left his wife.
Never before, in the eyes of the light of his position and his wife &apos; s hatred for him, and in general, the power of the gross mysterious power that, contrary to his mood, guided his life and demanded his will and a change in his relationship with his wife, were as obvious to him as it is today.
He clearly saw that the whole world and his wife were demanding something from him, but exactly what he couldn't understand.
He felt a sense of anger in his heart, ruining his calm and all the credit he deserved.
He felt that it would be better for Anna to stop having intercourse with him, but if they all found that it was impossible, he was willing even to allow that communication again, so as not to embarrass the children, deprive them of them, or change his situation.
As bad as it was, it was better than the breakup in which she was in an inexorable, disgraceful situation, and he himself was deprived of everything he loved.
But he felt powerless; he knew ahead that everything was against him and that he would not be allowed to do what seemed so natural and good to him now, but would be forced to do what was wrong, but they felt right.
Betsy had not yet left the room, just as Stepan Arkadić, who had just arrived from Elisha, where fresh oysters had been obtained, met her at the door.
'Ah! Princess! Here's a nice meeting!-- he's talking. 'And I was with you.
'The meeting is for a minute because I am leaving,' said Betsy, smiling and wearing a glove.
'Wait, Princess, put on your glove, let me kiss your pen.'
There's no way I'm more grateful for the old fashions coming back than for kissing my hands. 'He kissed Betsy's hand. 'When will I see you?'
'You do not stand,' replied Betsy smiling.
'No, I am very worth it because I have become the most serious person.'
Not only am I setting up my own business, but I am also doing other people's family business,' he said with a significant face.
'Ah, I am very glad!' replied Betsy, immediately realizing that he was talking about Anna.
And when they got back to the gym, they were in the corner. 'He will kill her,' said Betsy with a great whisper. 'It is impossible, it is impossible...'
'I am very glad that you think so,' said Stepan Arkadić, shaking his head with a serious and painfully sympathetic expression of his face, 'I came to Petersburg to do so.
'The whole city is talking about it,' she said. 'This is an impossible situation.
It melts and melts.
He doesn't understand that she's one of those women who can't make fun of her feelings.
One of two things: either take her away, do her energy, or divorce her.
And this is suffocating her.
'Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 'That's why I came. I mean, it's not exactly that...
They made me a valet, well, I should have thanked you.
But the most important thing is to arrange it.
'Well, God help you!' said Betsy.
By taking Princess Betsy to the hay again, kissing her hand above the glove, where the pulse is beating, and giving her such a nasty groan that she no longer knew whether to be angry with her or to laugh, Stepan Arkadych went to his sister.
He found her crying.
Despite the funny spirit he was in, Stepan Arkadić immediately naturally moved into that sympathetic, poetic-involved tone that approached her mood. He asked her about her health and how she spent the morning.
'Very, very bad.
And a day. And morning, and all the past and future days,' she said.
'I think you're drowning.
We've got to shake it up, we've got to take a straight look at life.
I know it's hard, but...
'I have heard that women love people even for their vices,' Anna suddenly began, 'but I hate him for his virtue.
I can't live with him.
You see, his kind has a physical effect on me, I'm freaking out.
I can't, I can't live with him.
What am I supposed to do?
I was unhappy and I thought I couldn't be happier, but the terrible state I was experiencing now, I couldn't imagine.
You're gonna believe that, knowing that he's a kind, excellent man, that I'm not worth his fingernail, I still hate him.
I hate him for his generosity.
And there's nothing left for me but...
She wanted to say death, but Stepan Arkadych wouldn't let her talk.
'You are sick and angry,' he said. 'Believe me, you're exaggerating awful.
It's not that bad.
And Stepan Arkadić smiled.
No one in Stepan Arkadič &apos; s place, dealing with such despair, would allow himself to smile (the smile would seem rude), but there was so much kindness and almost women &apos; s tenderness in his smile that the smile did not insult him, but softened him and calmed him.
His quiet sedatives and smiles calmed down like almond oil. And Anna soon felt it.
'No, Steve,' she said. 'I'm dead, I'm dead!
Worse than dead.
I'm not dead yet. I can't say it's over. On the contrary, I feel like it's not over.
I'm like a tight string that needs to burst.
But it's not over... and it's gonna be scary.
'Nothing, we can slowly lower the string.'
There's no provision out of which there's no way out.
'I thought and thought.
Just one...
Again, he realized from her frightened view that this one way out was, in her view, death, and he wouldn't let her finish.
'Nothing,' he said, 'let me.
You can't see your position like me.
Let me be honest with you. 'He smiled with his almond smile again.' 'I'll start again: you married a man 20 years older than you.
You married without love or knowing love.
It was a mistake, let's put it down.
'A terrible mistake!' said Anna.
'But I repeat, this is a fait accompli.'
Then you had, say, the misfortune of loving your husband.
It's a disaster; but it's a fact, too.
And your husband admitted it and forgave it. 'He stopped after every phrase, waiting for her objection, but she answered nothing. 'That's right.
Now the question is, can you keep living with your husband?
Is that what you want?
Is that what he wants?
'I know nothing, I know nothing.'
'But you yourself said you couldn't bear it.
'No, I didn't.
I deny it.
I don't know anything and I don't understand anything.
'Yes, but let me...
'You can't understand.
I feel like I'm flying my head down some cliff, but I don't have to save myself.
And I can't.
'Nothing, we're a scammer and we're gonna catch you.
I understand you, I know you can't take over to express your wish, your feelings.
'I don't want anything, I don't want anything... just to end it.'
'But he sees it and knows it.
Do you think he's just as hard on you as he is on you?
You're in pain, he's in pain, and what can come out of it?
While divorce unties everything, &quot; Stepan Arkadych made a strong point and looked at it considerably.
She answered nothing and shoved her sharp head negatively. But in an expression that suddenly shined before the beauty of his face, he saw that she did not wish for it simply because it seemed impossible for her to be happy.
'I feel terrible for you!
And how happy I would have been if I'd done it! I told Stepan Arkadić with a bolder smile already. 'Don't say, don't say anything!
If God had only let me say what I feel.
I'm gonna go see him.
Anna looked at him with thoughtful shiny eyes and said nothing.
Stepan Arkadić, with the somewhat solemn face with whom he sat in the Presidential chair in his presence, entered the office of Alexei Alexandrovich.
When he put his hands behind his back, he walked around the room and thought of the same things that Stepan Arkadič spoke to his wife.
'I'm not interrupting you? 'Stepan Arkadić said, when he saw his son-in-law, he suddenly felt a sense of embarrassment that was unusual to him.'
To cover up this confusion, he got just bought with a new way of opening up the papyroster and sniffed the skin and pulled out the papyrosk.
Do you need anything? 'Alexei Alexandrovich answered reluctantly.
'Yes, I wanted to... I need to go... yes, I need to talk,' said Stepan Arkadych, surprised to feel an unorthodox shyness.
The feeling was so unexpected and strange that Stepan Arkadić did not believe that it was the voice of conscience that told him that it was bad what he intended to do.
Stepan Arkadič made an effort to overcome his shyness.
'I hope you believe in my love for my sister and in sincere affection and respect for you,' he said, blushing.
Aleksey Alexandrovich stopped and answered nothing, but his face was struck by Stepan Arkadyić, the former expression of the obedient victim.
'I was determined, I wanted to talk about my sister and your mutual position,' said Stepan Arkadić, still struggling with unusual shyness.
Alexey Alexandrovich laughed sadly, looked at the brother-in-law, and failed to answer, came to the table, took the letter from him, and delivered the brother-in-law.
'I keep thinking the same thing. And this is what I began to write, believing that I would better say in writing and that my presence was annoying to her,' he said, writing a letter.
Stepan Arkadič took the letter, surprisedly looked at the dull eyes, stopped still on it, and began to read.
"I see that my presence weighs heavily on you.
As hard as it was for me to see it, I can see that it can never be different.
I don't blame you, and God knows that when I saw you during your illness, I decided to leave everything between us and start a new life.
I do not repent, nor will I ever repent of what I have done; but I have desired one thing, your good, the good of your soul, and now I see that I have not achieved it.
Tell me yourself what will bring you true happiness and peace of mind.
I submit to your will and your sense of justice."
Stepan Arkadić returned the letter and, with the same perplexity, continued to look at his son-in-law without knowing what to say.
Silence was so embarrassing to both of them that there was a painful tremor in Stepan Arkadyić's lips while he kept quiet, keeping his eyes open on Karen's face.
'This is what I wanted to tell her,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, turning his back.
'Yes, yes...' said Stepan Arkadić, unable to answer, for tears came to his throat. 'Yes, yes.
I understand you,' he finally said.
'I want to know what she wants,' said Alexis Alexandrovich.
'I'm afraid she doesn't understand her own position.
She wasn't a judge,' said Stepan Arkadych when she was decorated. 'She's depressed, she's depressed by your generosity.
If she reads this letter, she won't be able to say anything, she'll only lower her head.
'Yes, but what then?
How do you explain... how do you know her wish?
'If you're letting me express my opinion, I think it's up to you to specify exactly what measures you find necessary to put an end to this situation.
'So you find that he needs to be stopped?' 'Alexei Alexandrovich interrupted him. 'But how? 'He added, by making an unusual gesture in front of his eyes,' I see no way out.
'There is a way out in every situation,' said Stepan Arkadić, rising and resurgent. 'There was a time when you wanted to break...
If you can make sure now that you can't make mutual happiness...
'Happiness can be understood in different ways.
But let's just say I agree, I don't want anything.
What is the solution to our situation?
'If you want to know my opinion,' said Stepan Arkadych with the same softening, soft and almond smile he was talking to Anna with. A good smile was so convincing that involuntarily he felt his weakness and subjected to it, he was ready to believe what Stepan Arkadić would say. 'She will never say it.
But one thing that she may wish for, &quot; Stepan Arkadić continued &quot;, is the end of relations and all the memories associated with them.
In your situation, I think it's necessary to understand the new relationship.
And that relationship can only be established by the freedom of both sides. 'Marriage,' he repulsively interrupted Alexi Alexandrovich.
'Yes, I believe the divorce.
Yes, the divorce, &quot; red &quot;, repeated Stepan Arkadić. 'This is in all respects the most reasonable way out for spouses in relationships like you.
What if the couple found that life was impossible for them to live together?
It can always happen. 'Alexei Alexandrovich sighed heavily and closed his eyes. 'There is only one consideration: does one of the spouses wish to marry another?
If not, it is very simple,' said Stepan Arkadić, more and more free of embarrassment.
Alexei Alexandrovich, groaning, said something to himself, and he didn't answer anything.
All that turned out to be so easy for Stepan Arkadyić was thinking about a thousand thousand times.
And he didn't just think it was easy, but it seemed impossible.
The divorce, the details of which he had already known, now seemed impossible to him because his self - dignity and respect for religion prevented him from accepting the charge of false adultery and even less allowing his wife, who was forgiven and loved by him, to be caught and humiliated.
Divorce was not possible for other, even more important reasons.
What will happen to your son in the event of a divorce?
It was impossible to leave him with his mother. A divorced mother will have an illegal family in which the stepchild's position and upbringing are likely to be bad.
Leave him with me?
He knew it would be revenge on his part, and he didn't want it.
But apart from that, it seemed impossible for Alexei Alexandrovich to divorce because, by agreeing to divorce, he had destroyed Anna by doing so.
He was moved by the word of Daria Alexandrovna in Moscow that when he decided to divorce, he thought of himself, not that he was destroying her irretrievably.
And by linking that word to his forgiveness, to his affection for his children, he now understood it in his own way.
To agree to a divorce, to give her freedom was to take away from him the last link to the lives of the children he loved, and to her the last pillar in the way of good and bring her to ruin.
If she was divorced by her wife, he knew that she would be united with Vronski, and that connection would be illegal and criminal, because the wife, in the sense of the church law, could not be married as long as the husband was alive.
"She will connect with him, and in a year or two, either he will leave her, or she will make a new connection," Alexanderovich thought. 'And by agreeing to an illegal divorce, I will be responsible for her destruction.'
He thought about it hundreds of times and was convinced that the divorce case was not only not very simple, as his brother-in-law said, but completely impossible.
He did not believe any word of Stepan Arkadiyić, for every word he had had thousands of rebuttals, but he listened to him, feeling that his words were expressed by the powerful rude force that guided his life and that he would have to submit to.
'The only question is, under what conditions do you agree to divorce?'
She doesn't want anything, she doesn't dare ask you, she gives everything to your generosity.
"Oh, my God!
Oh, my God! For what?" 'Alexei Alexandrovich thought, remembering the details of the divorce, in which the husband took the blame, and by the same gesture as the one that was shut down, covered his face with shame.'
'You're excited, I get it.
But if you think about it...
"And put the left on the right cheek, and give the kaftan off the shirt," Alexander thought.
'Yes, yes! 'He cried with a squealing voice,' said he, 'I take shame, I give up even my son, but...' but wouldn't it be better to leave it?
Anyway, do what you want... and he turned his back on his brother-in-law so he can't see him, sit on the chair by the window.
He was bitter; he was ashamed; but along with this grief and shame he felt joy and compassion at the height of his humility.
Stepan Arkadić was touched.
He's quiet.
'Alexei Alexandrovich, believe me, that she will appreciate your generosity,' he said. 'But it must have been God's will,' he added, and when he said it, he felt that it was foolish, and with difficulty held the smile over his stupidity.
Alexei Alexandrovich wanted to answer something, but the tears stopped him.
'It is a fateful disaster, and I must admit it. I acknowledge this misery by fact, and I am trying to help her and you,' said Stepan Arkadić.
When Stepan Arkadić left his son-in-law's room, he was moved, but that did not prevent him from being satisfied that he had successfully done the job because he was confident that he would not give up his words.
This pleasure was compounded by the fact that he had the idea that, when this was done, he would ask his wife and loved ones, "What's the difference between me and the king?
The king divorces -- and no one feels better about it, and I divorce, and the three of them get better...
Or, what is the resemblance between me and the king?
When...
I'll come up with a better one, though,' he said to himself with a smile.
The wound was dangerous, even though it passed the heart. And for a few days, he was between life and death.
When he was able to speak the first time, one Varya, his brother's wife, was in his room.
'Varya!' he said, looking closely at her, 'I shot myself accidentally.
And please don't ever talk about it and tell everyone.
That's too stupid!
Without responding to his words, Varia leaned over him and looked him in the face with a happy smile.
The eyes were bright, not feverish, but the expression was strict.
'Well, thank God!' she said. 'Doesn't it hurt?
'A little here. 'He pointed to the breasts.
'So let me tie you up.'
He silently squeezed his wide cheekbones and looked at her while she bandaged him.
When she came, he said,
'I'm not delusional; please make sure there's no talk that I shot myself on purpose.
'No one speaks.'
I just hope you don't accidentally shoot again,' she said with a question-and-answer smile.
'I shouldn't have, but it would have been better... and he smiled darkly.'
Despite these words and the smile that scared Varia so much when he was inflammated and recovered, he felt that he had completely freed himself from one part of his grief.
It was as if he had washed away the shame and humiliation that he had experienced before.
He could think calmly now about Alexei Alexandrovich. He acknowledged his generosity and no longer felt humiliated.
Besides, he's back in his old life.
He saw the opportunity to look people in the eye without shame and could live by his habits.
One thing he couldn't get out of his heart, even though he continued to struggle with that feeling, was the despairing regret that he had lost her forever.
The fact that he was now atone for his husband's guilt should have abandoned her, and that he would never return to her with her repentance and her husband was firmly decided in his heart; but he could not remove from his heart the regret for the loss of her love, nor could he erase in memory the moments of happiness that he had known with her, which they had so little value at that time and which, in all their charms, persecuted him now.
Serpukhovski came up with an assignment to Tashkent, and Wronski agreed to the offer without any hesitation.
But the closer he got to the time of his departure, the harder it became for him the sacrifice he made for what he thought was right.
His wound healed and he was on his way to Tashkent to prepare for his departure.
"One time to see her and then to bury herself, to die," he thought, and when he made farewell visits, he expressed that thought to Betsy.
With this embassy, Betsy went to see Anne, and she gave him a negative answer.
"The better," he thought, after receiving this news. 'It was a weakness that would destroy my last powers.'
On the other day, Betsy herself came to see him in the morning and announced that she had received positive news through Oblon, that Alexei Alexandrovich was giving a divorce and that he could see her.
Without even taking care of Betsy's self, forgetting all his decisions, not asking when or where his husband might be, he immediately went to Karenin's.
He ran into the stairwell, seeing no one and seeing nothing, and came into her room as quickly as he could tossed away from running.
And without thinking or seeing who was in the room or not, he hugged her and began to kiss her face, hands, and neck.
Anna was preparing for this date, thinking about what she would say to him, but she did not have time to say any of it: His passion enveloped her.
She wanted to get rid of him, to get rid of herself, but it was too late.
His feelings came to her.
Her lips shivered so she couldn't say anything for a long time.
'Yes, you possessed me, and I am yours,' she finally said, holding his hand to her chest.
'That's how it should have been!' he said. 'As long as we're alive, it has to be.
I know that now.
'It is true,' she said, paler and more and hugging his head. 'There's something awful about it after all that's happened.
'It will pass, it will pass, we will be so happy!
Our love, if it could be strengthened, would be strengthened by having something terrible in it,' he said, raising his head and opening his smile to his strong teeth.
And she couldn't help but smile -- not words, but in love with his eyes.
She took his hand and ironed herself with it on the cold cheeks and cut her hair.
'I don't recognize you with these short hairs. You look so good.
Boy. But how pale you are!
'Yes, I am very weak,' she said, smiling. And her lips trembled again.
'We will go to Italy, you will recover,' he said.
'Is it possible for us to be like a husband with a wife, alone with your family with you? 'She said, looking closely into his eyes.'
'I was only surprised how it could have been otherwise.'
'Steve says that he agrees to everything, but I cannot accept his generosity,' she said, looking thoughtfully past the face of Vronski. 'I don't want a divorce, I don't care anymore.
I just don't know what he's gonna decide about Serez.
He couldn't figure out how she could at that moment think about and remember her son, about the divorce.
Didn't you care?
'Don't talk about it, don't think about it,' he said, turning her hand in his hand and trying to draw her attention to herself; but she didn't look at him all the time.
'Oh, why didn't I die, it would have been better!' she said, and without crying, tears rose on both cheeks; but she tried to smile, not to grieve him.
It would be shameful and impossible to give up a flattering and dangerous assignment to Tashkent, in the old sense of Vronski.
But now, without wondering for a moment, he gave up on him and immediately resigned as a result of his highest rejection of what he had done.
After a month, he was left alone with his son in her apartment, and Anna and Wronski went abroad without getting a divorce and firmly abandoned him.
PART FIFTH
Princess Shcherbatsky found it impossible to get the wedding to the post, which was five weeks away, because half of the dowry could not keep up with that time; but she could not help but agree with Levin that it would be too late after the post, since the old aunt of Prince Shcherbatsky was very ill and could soon have died, and the mourning would have delayed the wedding.
Therefore, when she decided to divide the dowry into two parts, a large and small dowry, the Princess agreed to make the wedding to the post.
She decided that she would make a small portion of the dowry now, that she would send a great deal after, and she was very angry with Levin for not being able to answer her seriously whether he agreed or not.
This consideration was all the more convenient because the young people were travelling immediately after the wedding to a village where large dowry items would not be needed.
Levin continued to be in the same state of insanity in which he felt that he and his happiness were the main and only goal of all that existed and that he now needed nothing to think about and care for, that everything was being done and would be done for him.
He had no plan or purpose for the life to come; he gave it to others, knowing that everything would be fine.
His brother Sergei Ivanovic, Stepan Arkadić, and the Princess led him in what he should have done.
He only agreed with everything he was offered.
His brother borrowed money for him, and the Princess advised him to leave Moscow after the wedding. Stepan Arkadić advised us to go abroad.
He agreed to everything.
"Do whatever you want if you're having fun.
I am happy, and my happiness can be no more, no less, no matter what you do,' he thought.
When he handed over to Kitty the advice of Stepan Arkadyić to travel abroad, he was very surprised that she did not agree to it, but had certain requirements for their future life.
She knew Levin had a case in the village he loved.
Not only did she not understand the case, but she didn't want to understand it.
This, however, did not prevent her from considering the matter very important. So she knew that their house would be in the village, and she wished to go not abroad, where she would not live, but where their house would be.
This express intention surprised Levin. But since he didn't care, he immediately asked Stepan Arkadyić, as if it were his duty, to go to the village and arrange for everything he knew, with the taste he had so much.
'Listen, though,' said Stepan Arkadić to Levin, returning from the village where he had arranged everything for the young to come, 'you have a witness that you were in the spirit?
Why?
'You can't marry without it.
'Ooh, ouch, ouch! 'Screamed Levin.' 'I don't think I've been naked for nine years.
I didn't think so.
'Enough!' said Stepan Arkadych, laughing, 'and you call me a nihilist!
But that can't be done. You're gonna have to shove.
'When?
Four days to go.
Stepan Arkadić arranged this, too.
And Levin began to bleed.
For Levin, as a man who does not believe but respects the beliefs of others, the presence and participation in all church rites was very difficult.
Now, in the sensitive, soft state of the spirit he was in, this need to pretend was not only hard, but it seemed impossible.
Now, in his glory, in his bloom, he must either lie or malign.
He felt unable to do either.
But how many times did he interrogate Stepan Arkadjić, if he could obtain a certificate without beef, Stepan Arkadić announced that it was impossible.
'What do you think you should do -- two days?
And he's a sweet, smart old man.
He's gonna pull that tooth out of you in a way you won't notice.
While standing at the first luncheon, Levin tried to refresh the youth's memories of the strong religious feeling he had experienced between the ages of 16 and 17.
At once, however, he was convinced that it was absolutely impossible for him to do so.
He tried to view all of this as irrelevant an empty custom similar to the custom of making visits; but he felt that he could not do that either.
Levin was in the most uncertain position with regard to religion, like most of its contemporaries.
He could not believe, but he was not firmly convinced that all of this was unfair.
And so, without being able to believe in the significance of what he did, or to look at it indifferently as an empty formality, throughout this shit, he felt embarrassed and embarrassed, doing things he didn't understand, and because, as the inner voice told him, something lies and bad.
During his service, he listened to prayers, trying to attribute to them meanings that were not at variance with his views, feeling that he could not understand and should condemn them, tried not to listen to them, but rather dealt with his thoughts, observations, and memories, which were wandering in his head during the celebration of his standing in the church.
He stood by the luncheon, the all-powerful and the evening rules, and on the other day, he came to church at 8 a.m. to hear the morning rules and confess.
There was no one in the church but a poor soldier, two old ladies and churchmen.
The young deacon, with two sharply marked halves of a long back under a thin arm, met him and immediately approached the table by the wall and began to read the rules.
As we read it, especially with the frequent and rapid repetition of the same words: "Lord, have mercy," which sounded like "Lord, have mercy," Levin felt that his thought was locked and sealed and that it was no longer necessary to touch and move it, or that there would be confusion, so he stood behind the deacon and continued, without listening or understanding, to think about his own.
"A surprising amount of expression in her hand," he thought, remembering how they sat at the corner table yesterday.
There was nothing to say to them, as was always the case at that time, and she put her hand on the table, opened and closed it, and laughed at its motion.
He remembered how he kissed that hand and then looked at the similarities on his pink hand.
"Blessed again," thought Levin, bowing down and looking at the flexible movement of the back of the bowing deacon.
"She then took my hand and looked at the lines: 'You have a good hand,' she said.
And he looked at his hand and the short hand of the Deacon.
"Yes, it will soon be over," he thought. 'No, it seems at first again,' he thought, listening to prayers. 'No, it's over; now he's bowing to the ground.
It's always at the end."
The deacon said that he would write it down, and when he heard new boots on the stoves of an empty church, he went to the altar.
A minute later, he looked out of there and lured Levin.
A locked thought so far has moved in Levin's head, but he has hastened to drive her away.
"Someday he'll settle down," he thought, and went to the amvon.
He went into the steps, and turned to the right, and saw the priest.
The old priest, with a rare semi - neighbouring beard, with tired, good eyes, stood by the analoy and turned the stub.
After a little bowing to Levin, he immediately began reading with the usual voice of prayer.
After completing them, he bowed to the ground and turned his face to Levin.
'Here Christ is invisible, accepting your confession,' he said, pointing to the crucifixion. 'Do you believe in all that the Holy Apostolic Church teaches us? 'The priest continued, turning his eyes on Levin's face and putting his hands under the epetrahill.
'I doubted, I doubt everything,' said Levin with a distasteful voice and shut up.
The priest waited a few seconds for him to say something else, and when he closed his eyes, the quick Vladimirian on "O" said:
'The doubt is inherent in human weakness, but we must pray that the merciful God will strengthen us.
What special sins do you have? 'He added without any further delay, as if he was trying not to waste any time.'
'My greatest sin is doubt.
I doubt everything, and I'm more of a doubter.
'The doubt is inherent in the weakness of man,' the priest repeated the same words. 'What is the majority of your doubts?'
'I doubt everything.'
I doubt sometimes even the existence of a god,' said Levin involuntarily, and was apprehensive about what he said.
But Levin's words did not seem to impress the priest.
'What doubts can there be about the existence of a god?' 'Had a slight smile,' he said in haste.
Levin was silent.
'What doubt can you have about the Creator when you see his creation? 'The priest continued with a quick, usual talk.' 'Who decorated the heavens with lights?'
Who placed the earth in the beauty of its beauty?
What about without a creator? 'He said, looking at Levin in question.
Levin felt that it would be indecent to enter into a philosophical debate with a priest, and therefore only said in reply what was directly relevant to the question.
'I don't know,' he said.
'You don't know?
How then do you doubt that Allah has created all things? 'The priest said with jolly perplexity.'
'I don't understand anything,' said Levin, blushing and feeling that his words were stupid and that they could not help being stupid in such a situation.
'Call on God and ask him.
Even holy fathers had doubts and asked God to strengthen their faith.
The Devil has great power, and we must not give in to him.
Pray to God, pray to him, pray to God,' he repeated in haste.
The priest's been quiet for a while, like, thinking about it.
'You, I hear, are going to marry my parishioner's daughter and the son of a spiritual prince of Shcherbatsky? 'He added with a smile.' 'Beautiful girl.
'Yes,' answered Levin, blushing for the priest.
"Why would he ask about it in confession?" 'He thought.'
And as if responding to his thought, the priest said to him,
'You are going to marry, and God may reward you with offspring, isn't it?
What kind of upbringing do you have for your little ones, if you do not overcome the temptation of Satan, who incites you to disbelief? 'He said with mildness.' 'If you love your magic, you will be like a good father, not one wealth, luxury, honor to your child; you will desire his salvation, his spiritual education with the light of truth.
Isn't it?
What will you say to him when an innocent little girl asks you, "Father! Who created all that pleases me in this world, earth, water, sun, flowers, grass?"
Do you say to him, "I do not know"?
You can't help but know when God has revealed this to you by His great mercy.
Or your child will ask you, "What will happen to me in the afterlife?"
What do you say to him when you don't know anything?
How will you answer him?
Give him the beauty of the world and the devil?
That's not good! 'He said, and stopped, turning his head sideways, and looking at Levin with kind, mild eyes.'
Levin didn't answer anything now -- not because he didn't want to argue with the priest, but because no one asked him such questions; and when his little ones ask these questions, there will still be time to think about what to answer.
'You enter into the era of life,' the priest continued, 'when you must choose the path and stick to it. Pray to God that by his grace he may help you and have mercy on you,' he concluded. 'The Lord and our God Jesus Christ, the grace and bounty of his human love, may the thai chado forgive...' And, having completed the prayer of permission, the priest blessed and released him.
When Levin returned home on that day, he felt joyous that the awkward situation was over and ended up not having to lie.
Besides, he had a vague memory that what that good and sweet old man said wasn't as stupid as he thought at first, and that there was something here that needed to be understood.
'It will, not now,' thought Levin, 'but someday afterwards.'
Levin now felt more than ever that there was something in his heart that was unclear and unclean, and that he was in the same position with regard to religion that he had seen so clearly and did not love in others, and for which he blamed his friend Sviyazhsky.
While spending this evening with the bride at Dolly's, Levin had a lot of fun and, explaining to Stepan Arkadyich the excruciating state he was in, said that he was having fun, like a dog who was taught to ride through a hoop and who, having finally understood and done what was required of her, was jumping up and swinging his tail, jumping with delight on tables and windows.
On the day of the wedding, Levin, according to custom (all customs were strictly insisted upon by the Princess and Daria Alexandrovna), did not see his fiancée and had lunch at his hotel with three random bachelors: Sergei Ivanovich, Katavasov, a fellow university student, now a professor of science, whom Levin, meeting on the street, dragged to himself, and Chirikov, a best man, a Moscow world judge, a friend of Levin's bear hunter.
Lunch was very fun.
Koznyshev was in the best position of spirit and entertained the originality of Katavasov.
Katavasov, feeling that his originality was appreciated and understood, was wearing it.
Chirikov was fun and kind enough to support any conversation.
'Here,' said Katavasov, according to a habit acquired in the Chair, stretching out his words, 'what a capable little friend of ours Konstantin Dmitrich was.
I'm talking about missing people because he's gone.
And science loved then, when he left the university, and he had human interests; now one half of his ability is aimed at deceiving himself and the other at justifying this deception.
'The more determined enemy of marriage, like you, I have not seen,' said Koznyshev.
'No, I am not the enemy. I'm a friend of the division of labour.
People who can't do anything should do things to people, and others should promote their education and happiness.
That's how I see it.
Mixing two of these crafts is the darkness of hunters, I'm not one of them.
'How happy I will be to know that you will fall in love!' said Levin. 'Please invite me to the wedding.
'I'm in love already.
'Yes, in the karate.'
You know,' Levin turned to his brother,' Michael Semenić writes an essay on nutrition and...
'Well, don't get confused!
It doesn't matter what it is.
The thing is, I really like karate.
'But she wouldn't stop you from loving your wife.
'She's not gonna hurt me, she's gonna hurt my wife.
'Why?
'You'll see.
You love the farm, the hunting -- look at this!
'And now Archip was, saying, the elbows of Prudne and the two bears,' said Chirikov.
'Well, you'll take them without me.
'It is true,' said Koznyshev. 'Go ahead and say goodbye to the bear hunt,' the wife won't let go!
The idea that his wife wouldn't let him in was so pleasant that he was willing to give up the pleasure of seeing bears forever.
'But it is a pity that these two bears will be taken without you.'
Do you remember the last time in Hapelov?
A wonderful hunt would be,' said Chirikov.
Levin didn't want to disappoint him that there might be something good anywhere without her, so he didn't say anything.
'This custom of saying goodbye to a single life has not been established for nothing,' said Koznyshev. 'Blessed as it may be, I still feel sorry for freedom.'
'Are you going to admit, is there a feeling like a Gogol fiancé that you want to jump out into the window?'
'I suppose there is, but I won't admit it! 'Katawasov said, and he wanted it loudly.'
'Well, the window is open...'
Let's go to Truth now!
One bear, you can go to the den.
Right, let's go five o'clock!
And here's what they want,' said he, smiling, Chirikov.
'Oh, my God!' said Levin smiling, 'I cannot find in my heart this feeling of regret for my freedom!
'You have so much chaos in your soul that you can't find anything,' said Katavasov. 'Wait till you figure it out a little bit, you'll find it!
'No, I would feel a little bit that, apart from his feelings (he didn't want to say in front of him -- love) and happiness, I still feel sorry for losing my freedom...'
On the contrary, I'm glad I'm losing my freedom.
'Bad!
The hopeless unsub!' said Katavasov. 'Well, let's drink to his healing, or we'll only wish for one hundred of his dreams to come true.'
And it's gonna be as happy as it's ever been on earth!
Soon after lunch, the guests left to change in time for the wedding.
After remaining alone and remembering these bachelors' conversations, Levin once again asked himself, "Does he have in his heart this feeling of regret about his freedom that they spoke of?
He smiled at the matter.
"Liberate?
Why freedom?
Happiness is only to love and desire, to think of her desires, her thoughts, that is, no freedom -- that is happiness!"
'But do I know her thoughts, her desires, her feelings?' 'Suddenly whispered a voice to him.'
The smile disappeared from his face, and he thought.
And suddenly he had a weird feeling.
He found fear and doubt, doubt everything.
"What's wrong with her not loving me?
That how does she marry me just to get married?
What if she doesn't know what she's doing? 'He asked himself.' 'She can remember and only when she has married will she realize that she does not love and cannot love me.'
And the strangest, worst thoughts of her began to come to him.
He was jealous of her, like a year ago, as if this evening he saw her with Vronski was yesterday.
He suspected she hadn't told him everything.
He jumped up quickly.
"No, you can't do that! 'He said to himself with despair.' 'I will go to her, ask her, for the last time, shall I say, We are free, and should we not stop?'
It is better than perdition, disgrace, and infidelity."
With despair in his heart and anger at all men, at himself, at which he left the hotel and went to her.
No one was waiting for him.
He caught her in the back rooms. She sat in a chest and had something to do with the girl, picking up a bunch of coloured dresses laid on the backs of chairs and on the floor.
'Ah! 'She cried out, when she saw him, and was filled with joy.' 'How are you, how did you (until this last day she told him "you" and "you"?'
I didn't expect it!
And I'm sorting out my girls' dresses, who's gonna...
'Ah! That's very good!" he said, looking down at the girl.
'Go away, Dunya, I will call you then,' said Kitty. 'What is wrong with you? 'She asked, strongly saying to him, 'you,' as soon as the girl came out.
She noticed his strange face, agitated and dark, and found fear of her.
'Kiti! I'm in pain.
I cannot suffer alone,' he said with despair in his voice, standing in front of her and beg her to look into her eyes.
He had already seen from her loving true face that nothing could come out of what he intended to say, but he still needed her to disbelieve him herself.
'I have come to say that time has not yet passed.
It can all be destroyed and corrected.
I don't understand anything.
What's wrong with you? 'What I've said a thousand times, and I can't help but think... that I'm not worth you.
You couldn't agree to marry me.
Think about it.
You were wrong.
Think about it.
You can't love me... if... tell me better," he said without looking at her. 'I will be unhappy.
Let everyone say what they want; it's better than misery...
It's better now. As long as there's time...
'I don't understand,' she replied terrifiedly, 'that you want to refuse... that you don't have to?
'Yes, if you don't love me.
'You're insane! 'She cried, blushing with shame.' But his face was so pathetic that she held back her displeasure and, by throwing the dresses off the chair, moved closer to him.
'What do you think? Say everything.
'I think you can't love me.
Why can't you love me?
'Oh, my God! What can I do? 'She said, and cried.'
'Oh, what have I done! 'He cried, and stood before her on his knees, kissing her hands.'
When the Princess entered the room five minutes later, she found them completely at peace.
Kitty not only assured him that she loved him, but even when she answered his question why she loved him, she explained to him why.
She told him that she loved him for understanding him, for knowing that he should love him, and that everything he loved was fine.
And that seemed quite clear to him.
When the Princess came in, they sat next to her in the chest, dislodged the dresses, and argued that Kitty wanted to give Dunyasha that brown dress she was wearing when Levin proposed to her, and he insisted that this dress should not be given to anyone, but that he should give Dunyasha a blue dress.
'How can you not understand?'
She's brunette, and she's not gonna walk...
I've got it all figured out.
When she found out why he was coming, the Princess was half-funny, half-seriously angry and sent him home to dress up and not stop Kitty from combing her hair, as Charles was about to arrive.
'She hasn't eaten anything all these days, and she's delusional, and you're still upsetting her with your stupidity,' she said to him. 'Get out, get out, sweetheart.
Levin, guilty and ashamed, but calmed, returned to his hotel.
His brother, Daria Alexandrovna and Stepan Arkadić, all in the toilet, were waiting for him to bless him in a way.
There was no time to slow down. Daria Alexandrovna had to stop by the house to pick up her bastard son, who had to carry the image of the bride.
Then one carriage had to be sent for the best man, and the other, who would drive Sergei Ivanovich, sent back...
Actually, there were a lot of complicated considerations.
There was one thing you shouldn't have done, because it's half past seven.
The blessing didn't work out that way.
Stepan Arkadić became in a comic and trade position next to his wife, took the image, and commanded Levin to bow down to the ground, blessed him with a good and laughing smile, and kissed him three times; she also did the same thing to Daria Alexandrovna, and immediately finished the journey, and again became confused in the plans of the carriages.
'Well, here's what we're gonna do: you're gonna follow him in our carriage, and Sergei Ivanovic would have been so kind as to stop by and send him.
'Well, I am very pleased.
'And we'll be right there with him.
The stuff's been sent? 'Stepan Arkadić said.'
'Sent,' answered Levin, and told Kuzma to dress.
A crowd of people, especially women, surrounded the wedding church.
Those who had not yet entered the middle crowded by the windows, pushing, arguing, and looking through the bars.
More than 20 carriages have already been set up by gendarmes along the street.
The police officer, disregarding the frost, stood at the entrance, shining with his uniform.
The crew kept coming, and the ladies in the flowers, with their plumes up, and the men, taking off their caps or black hat, entered the church.
In the church itself, both chandeliers and all the candles in the local images had already been lit.
The golden glow on the red background of the iconostas, and the golden thread of the icon, and the silver of the candlesticks, and the plates of the floor, and the carpets, and the ferrets at the top of the cleros, and the steps of the amvon, and the old blackened books, and the droids, and the poems, were all covered with light.
On the right side of the warm church, in a crowd of frascos and white ties, uniforms and trousers, velvet, atlas, hair, flowers, naked shoulders and hands, and high gloves, there was a discreet and lively conversation in the tall dome.
Every time the door was opened, the talk in the crowd was quiet, and everyone looked back, waiting to see the bride and groom coming in.
But the door has already been opened more than ten times, and each time it was either a late guest or guest joining a mug of invitees, to the right, or an spectator, cheating or condescending a police officer, joining a crowd, to the left. And the family and the outsiders have passed through all the waiting stages.
At first, it was thought that the bride and groom would arrive immediately without giving any meaning to the lateness.
Then they looked at the door more often and more often, talking about whether anything had happened.
Then the lateness became awkward, and family and guests tried to pretend that they didn't think about the groom and were busy talking.
Protodyacon, as a reminder of the value of his time, was impatient to shake windows.
On the cliros, they heard the sound of the voices, the snorting of the missing singers.
The priest constantly expelled the deacon, then the deacon, to see if the groom had arrived, and he himself, in a purple raspberry and stitched belt, went out to the side door more often and more often, waiting for the groom.
Finally, one of the ladies, looking at the watch, said, "But it's weird!" &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and all the guests came to worry and began to express their surprise and displeasure loudly. &gt;&gt;&gt;
One of the best men went to see what happened.
Kitty at that time, long prepared, in a white dress, a long veil and a crown of pommerian flowers, with her mother and her sister Lvova, stood in the chamber of the Shorbatsk house and looked out the window, waiting in vain for more than half an hour to hear from her best man that the groom had come to church.
Levin, however, was in the pantalons, but without a vest and a freckle, he went back and forth according to his number, lying constantly on the door and looking around the hallway.
But there was no sign of what he expected in the hallway, and he, desperately returning and waving his hands, treated Stepan Arkadyich, who smoked in peace.
'Has there ever been a man in such a terrible stupid position?' 'He said.
'Yes, silly,' confirmed Stepan Arkadić with a mild smile. 'But calm down, they'll be here in a moment.'
No, of course not! - Levin spoke with moderate rabies. 'And these stupid open vests!
Impossible! 'He said, looking at the shrivelled in front of his shirt.' 'And that as things had already been taken to the railway!' he cried with despair.
'Then you'll wear mine.
'And it would have been a long time ago.'
'It is not good to be funny...'
Wait! It's gonna work out.
The point was that when Levin demanded to be dressed, Kuzma, the old servant of Levin, brought a frack, a vest, and all that was needed.
'And the shirt!' cried Levin.
'The shirt is on you,' answered Kuzma with a calm smile.
The shirts of the pure Kuzma didn't know to leave, and after having been ordered to lay everything down and take it to the Shcherbatskys, from which the young men left this evening, he did so, putting everything but the fratric couple.
The shirt, dressed in the morning, was truncheoned and impossible to wear with open-fashioned vests. Sending to Scherbatsky was far away.
They sent me to buy a shirt. Lakey's back, it's all locked up on Sunday.
It was sent to Stepan Arkadyich, brought in a shirt; it was impossible to be wide and short.
They finally sent me to Sherbatsky to lay things down.
The groom was waiting in the church, and he, like a caged beast, walked around the room, looking into the hallway and with horror and despair, remembering what he had said to Kitty and what she could think now.
Finally, Kuzma, who was guilty of violence, flew into a room with a shirt.
'I just caught you. The crowbar was picked up,' said Kuzma.
Three minutes later, without looking at the clock to prevent the wounds from being corrupted, Levin ran down the hall.
'You can't help it,' said Stepan Arkadych with a smile, hastyly followed him. 'It is formed, it is formed...' I tell you.
'Here we are! 'Here he is! 'Which one? 'It's younger, isn't it? 'And she, Mother, is neither alive nor dead!' said in the crowd when Levin, meeting the bride at the door, entered the church with her.
Stepan Arkadić told his wife the reason for the deceleration, and the guests whispered to each other smiling.
Levin did not notice anything, nor did he look down on his fiancée.
Everyone said that she was very foolish in these last days and was far from as good under the crown as usual; but Levin did not find it.
He looked at her tall hair with a long white voila and white flowers, at a high-skinned collar, especially the virgin who closed her long neck from the side and opened her long neck in the front, and the amazingly thin waist, and he thought that she was better than ever -- not because these flowers, this veil, this dress from Paris, added something to her beauty, but because, despite this brilliance, the expression of her lovely face, her eyes, her lips were still her own special expression of innocence.
'I thought you wanted to run,' she said, and smiled at him.
'So stupid what happened to me, I am ashamed to speak! 'He said, red, and had to turn to Koznyshev.'
'Your shirt story is good! 'And Koznyshev said, shaking his head and smiling.
'Yes, yes,' answered Levin, without understanding what was being said.
'Well, Kostya, now it is up to you to decide,' said Stepan Arkadych with a fake-scared view, 'is an important question. You are now in a position to appreciate his importance.
They ask me, ‘ Shall I light burning candles, or unburned candles? '
The difference of ten rubles,' he added, gathering lips in a smile. 'I've decided, but I'm afraid you won't agree.
Levin realized it was a joke, but he couldn't smile.
'So how?' Unburned or burned? Here's the question.
'Yes, yes! Unburned.
'Well, I'm very pleased. The matter is settled!' said Stepan Arkadych, smiling. 'But how foolish people are in this position,' he said to Chirikov, when Levin looked at him confusedly and moved toward the bride.
'Look, Kitty, get on the rug first,' said Countess Nordston, coming. 'Good for you! 'She turned to Levin.'
'What, isn't it scary? 'Maria Dmitrikin, the old aunt, said.'
'Aren't you fresh?
You're pale.
Wait, bend over!' said Sister Kitty, Lvova, and round her full beautiful hands, with a smile, she fixed the flowers on her head.
Dolly came over, wanted to say something, but she couldn't speak, she cried, and she laughed unnaturally.
Kitty looked at everyone with the same missing eyes as Levin.
All the speeches she spoke to her could only respond with a smile of happiness, which was now so natural to her. Meanwhile, the churchmen dressed up, and the priest and the deacon went out to the analah who was standing in the act of the church.
The priest turned to Levin, saying something. Levin did not listen to what the priest said.
'Take the hand of the bride and lead,' said the best man Levin.
For a long time Levin could not understand what was required of him.
They fixed him for a long time and wanted to leave him, because he took everything by the wrong hand or by the wrong hand, when he finally realized that he had to take her by the right hand without changing his position.
When he finally took the bride's hand as he should have, the priest walked several steps ahead of them and stopped at the analoy.
A crowd of family and acquaintances, buzzing with talk and shrubbing with plumes, moved behind them.
Someone bent over, fixed the bride's plume.
The church was so quiet, it heard a drop of wax.
The old priest, in the hamster, with a shiny silver of gray pieces of hair taken two sides behind his ears, poking little old hands out of heavy silver with a golden cross on the back of the ripple, was picking up something from the analoy.
Stepan Arkadič approached him carefully, whispered something, and winked at Levin and went back in again.
The priest lit two flowers - adorned candles, holding them side by side in his left hand, so the wax dripping slowly from them, and turned face to the bridesmaids.
The priest was the same as Levin's confession.
He looked tired and sad at his fiancée and fiancée, sighed and, out of the heat of his right hand, blessed the fiancée and also, but with a shade of tenderness, put folded fingers on Kitty's lean head.
Then he brought them candles, and took the cable, and turned away slowly from them.
"Is it really true?" 'I thought Levin and looked back at the bride.'
He saw her profile on the top, and by the slightly visible movement of her lips and eyelashes, he knew that she felt his eyes.
She didn't look back, but the high assembly collar moved up to her pink little ear.
He saw a sigh in her chest and trembling a small hand in a tall glove holding a candle.
All the fuss about the shirts, the lateness, the conversation with the acquaintances, the family, their displeasure, his funny position -- all of a sudden, he disappeared and became happy and scared.
A beautiful, tall protodyacone in a silver poem, with its crumbled crumbs standing on the sides, the boy went forward and, with his usual gesture on two fingers, stopped against the priest.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah! 'Slowly one by one, swinging the waves of the air, giving out solemn sounds.'
"Blessed is our God forever, now and forever and ever," answered the old man the priest humbly and singer, continuing to take something to the anal.
And when he filled the whole church from windows to roofs, he climbed thinly and wide, reinforced himself, stopped for a moment, and quietly measured the full chord of the invisible clir.
They prayed, as always, for the high peace and salvation, for the synod, for the king; they also prayed for God's servants now engaged, Konstantin and Catherine.
"Oh, send them love more perfect, more peaceful and more helpful, and pray to God," as if the whole church were breathing with the voice of a protodyacon.
Levin listened to the words, and they struck him.
"How did they know it was help, it was help? 'He thought, remembering all his recent fears and som--negative.' 'What do I know?
What can I do in this terrible matter,' he thought, 'without help?
It's the help I need now."
When the deacon finished the ectenus, the priest turned to those who were engaged to the book:
'God is eternal, parting in the union,' he read with a mild singing voice, 'and the union of love that gave them unbreakable; blessed Isaac and Rebekah, the heirs of your promise are shown: bless yourself, and your servants these, Constantin, Catherine, and I shall instruct all good works.
"As a merciful and loving God, we give glory to you, and to your father, and to your son, and to the holy spirit, now and forever and ever." 'Aamen,' another invisible choir spilled into the air.
"Abandoned by a union and a union of love," how thoughtful these words are and how appropriate to what you feel at this moment! 'I thought Levin.' 'Does she feel like me?'
And when he looked back, he met her eyes.
And by the expression of that look, he concluded that she understood what he understood.
But that was not true; she could hardly understand the words of the service or even listen to them during the engagement.
She could not listen and understand them: so much was the feeling that filled her soul and became more and more intense.
It was a joy to complete what had already been in her soul for a month and a half and that, during all these six weeks, she rejoiced and tormented.
In her soul on the day that she in her brown dress in the hall of Arbat's house came to him silently and gave herself to him, in her soul on that day and hour a complete break with the rest of her life was made, and a whole new, completely unknown life began, but in reality the old life continued.
These six weeks were the happiest and most painful time for her.
Her whole life, all her desires, all her hopes were focused on one other person she could not understand, with whom she was associated by something even more incomprehensible than the human being himself, a close, repulsive feeling, but she continued to live in the old life.
As she lived her old life, she was terrified of herself, of her total irresistible indifference to all her past — to things, to habits, to people who loved and loved her, to the grief of her mother's indifference, to the sweet, above all, to the beloved tender father.
She was terrified of that indifference, she rejoiced at what led her to that indifference.
She could neither think nor wish for anything beyond her life with this man; but this new life has not yet existed, and she could not even imagine it clearly.
There was one expectation: the fear and joy of the new and unknown. And now it's about to end, and the uncertainty, and the remorse of the previous life -- it's gonna be over, and it's gonna start new.
The new one could not but be scary because of its unknowns; but it was scary or not scary -- it had already taken place six weeks ago in her soul; now only what had long been done in her soul had been consecrated.
When he turned again to the analah, the priest found it difficult to catch Kitty's little ring and, after demanding Levin's hand, put it on the first joint of his finger.
"The slave of God Konstantin is engaged to God's servant Yekaterina." And when he put a large ring on a pink, small, pitiful finger of Kitty, the priest said the same thing.
On several occasions, the betrothed wanted to know what to do, and each time they were wrong, the priest whispered to correct them.
Finally, when he had done what needed to be done by crossing them with rings, he again gave Kitty a large one, and Levin a small one; again, they confused themselves and handed the ring from hand to hand twice, and yet it did not come out as required.
Dolly, Chirikov and Stepan Arkadić went forward to correct them.
There was confusion, whispering, and smiles, but the solemn and condescending expression on the faces of the betrothed did not change; on the contrary, they looked with their hands more serious and solemn than ever before, and a smile with which Stepan Arkadić whispered, that everyone should now wear his ring, and suddenly froze on his lips.
He felt that every smile would insult them.
'You meant that you created a man's sex and a woman's,' the priest read after the change of the rings, 'you combine a wife with your husband, to help and to understand the human race.
O God our God, who has sent the truth to your inheritance and your promise, to your servants our fathers, in which is your lineage and your lineage, and has been chosen, and have seen your servant Konstantin and your servant Catherine, and have established their betrothal in faith, and in common thoughts, and in truth, and in love..."
Levin felt more and more that all his thoughts about getting married, his dreams about how he would live his life -- that it was all childish and that it was something he had not yet understood and now even less understood, even though it was being done against him; in his breasts all the tremors were raised above and above, and the unruly tears appeared to him.
The church was full of Moscow, family and acquaintances.
And during the engagement ceremony, in the shiny lighting of the church, in a circle of empty women, girls, and men in white ties, fractures and uniforms, there was a decent and quiet talk, which was mostly initiated by men, while women were obsessed with the observation of all the details that affect them so much as to affect their sacred activities.
In the mug closest to the bride were her two sisters, Dolly and the older, calm, beautiful Lvova, who came from abroad.
'What is Marie in the purple, exactly black, at the wedding?' 'Corsunsky said.'
'With the light of her face is one salvation...' answered Drubeckka. 'I wonder why they made the wedding tonight.' It's a merchant...
'Beautiful.
I too was married tonight,' answered Korsunsky and sighed, remembering how cute she was on that day, how funny her husband was in love and how everything else was now.
'It is said that whoever is the best man more than ten times does not marry; I wanted to be the tenth to protect myself, but the seat was occupied,' said Count Shinjavin the beautiful Princess of Charska, who had his views on him.
Charska only gave him a smile.
She looked at Kitty, thinking about how and when she would stand with Count Cinjavin in Kitty's position and how she would remind him of his current joke.
Scherbatsky told the old lady Nikolaeva that he intended to wear a crown on Shinyon Kitty to make her happy.
'You shouldn't have worn the shiny one,' replied Nikolayev, who had long decided that if the old widower she had caught married her, the wedding would be the easiest. 'I don't like this fast.'
Koznyshev spoke to Daria Dmitriskaya, kidding her that the custom of leaving after the wedding spreads because newlyweds are always somewhat ashamed.
'Your brother can be proud.
She's lovely.
I think you're jealous?
'I have already been through this, Daria Dmitriyana,' he replied, and his face suddenly received a sad and serious expression.
Stepan Arkadić told his sister-in-law about the divorce.
'It is necessary to correct the wreath,' she answered, without listening to it.
'It is a pity that she was so silly,' said Countess Nordston Lvova. 'And yet he does not stand her finger.'
Isn't that right?
'No, I like him very much. Not because he's the future beaufrere, Lvov answered. 'And how good he is!
And it's so hard to keep yourself in this position -- not be funny. And he's not funny, he's not tight, he can see he's touched.
'I think you've been waiting for this?
'Almost.
She always loved him.
'Well, let's see which one of them will first be on the carpet.
I advised Kitty.
'It's all the same,' Lvova replied, 'we are all obedient wives, it's in our breed.
'And I was so deliberately the first to be with Vasily.
And you, Dolly?
Dolly stood beside them, heard them, but did not answer. She was moved.
Tears were in her eyes, and she couldn't say anything without crying.
She rejoiced at Kitty and Levin; when she returned to her wedding, she looked at the shining Stepan Arkadyić, forgetting all the real things, and remembered only her first innocent love.
She remembered not only herself, but all the women who were close to her and knew her; she remembered them at the one solemn time when they, like Kitty, stood under the crown with love, hope and fear in the heart, disavowing the past and entering a mysterious future. Among those brides who came to her memory, she also remembered her lovely Anna, whose alleged divorce she had recently heard.
And she also, clean, stood in pommeran flowers and veils.
Now what? 'Awfully strange,' she said.
Sisters, friends, and family members were not the only ones who followed all the details of the sacred work; foreign women, spectators, with excitement, breathtaking, watched, fearing the loss of every movement, the expression of the bride and groom &apos; s face, and with displeasure, did not answer, and often did not hear, the words of indifferent men who made joke or outside remarks.
'Why are you crying?'
Or is it pissed off?
'Why are you so angry with such a good man?'
Isn't it the Prince?
'Is this the sister in the white atlas?'
Well, listen to the deacon screaming, "Let's be afraid of his husband."
'Wordly?'
'Synodical.
'I asked the footman.
He says he's on his way to his place right now.
He's rich in passion, they say.
Then they gave it away.
'No, the couple are good.
'But you argued, Maria Vosaevna, that the carnalins were on their way out.
Look at that one in the dog, the messenger, talking about the rebound...
Okay, here we go again.
'Here's a lovely bride, like a sheep removed!
Whatever you say, it's pathetic for our sister.
It was said in a crowd of spectators who had sneaked through the church door.
When the betrothal ended, the church servant posted a piece of pink silk cloth in the middle of the church, and the choir sang a crafty and complex hymn in which the bass and the tenor tangled among themselves, and the priest turned around and pointed to the betrothed pink piece of fabric.
As often and as much as both heard about the fact that the first person to step on the rug would be the head of the family, neither Levin nor Kitty could remember it when they took these few steps. Nor have they heard loud remarks and arguments that, according to some, he was previously, in the view of others, both of them together.
After the usual questions about their desire to marry and whether they promised to others, a new service began for them, strangely for those who answered themselves.
Kitty listened to the words of prayer, wanting to understand their meaning, but she couldn't.
The sense of celebration and joy as she performed the ritual was becoming more and more full of her soul and deprived her of her ability to pay attention.
Praying "for their chastity and the fruit of the womb for the benefit of their children and daughters, even as they rejoiced in the vision of their sons and daughters."
It was mentioned that God had created a wife out of Adam's rib, and "for the sake of his father and mother, and he will stick to his wife, there will be two in the flesh of one," and that "the secret is great to eat"; asked that God give them fertility and blessing, like Isaac and Rebekah, Joseph, Moses and Sepphorus, and that they should see the sons of their sons.
'All this was wonderful,' thought Kitty, listening to those words, 'it can't be different,' and the smile of joy communicated to all those who looked at her, radiantly on her bright face.
'Put it all on! 'Heard the advice when the priest put the crowns and Shcherbatsky on them, shaking with his hand in a three-pound glove, holding the crown above her head.'
'Put it on!' she whispered smiling.
Levin looked back at her, and was struck by the joyous radiance that was on her face: and it came to him involuntarily.
He's as bright and funny as she is.
They enjoyed the reading of the Apostolic message and the roll of protodyacon's voice at the last verse, expected so eagerly by outsiders.
It was fun to drink from a flat cup a warm red wine with water, and it became even more fun when the priest, when he had cast out the risa and took them both into his own hand, led them in the gusts of the bass that brought out the "Isaiah of the Lycue" around the analoy.
Scherbatsky and Chirikov, who supported the crowns, mixed up in the bride's plume, also smiled and rejoiced at something, fell behind, and stumbled upon the weddings at the priest's stops.
The spark of joy lit up in Kitty seemed to have been communicated to all the former members of the church.
Levin felt that both the priest and the deacon, like him, wanted to smile.
After removing the crowns from their heads, the priest read the last prayer and congratulated the young.
Levin looked at Kitty, and he never saw her like this. She was adorable with the new radiance that was on her face.
Levin wanted to tell her something, but he didn't know if it was over.
The priest got him out of trouble. He smiled with his good mouth and quietly said, 'Kiss your wife, and you kiss your husband,' and he took from their hands a candle.
Levin kissed with caution her smiling lips, gave her his hand, and, feeling a new, strange intimacy, left the church.
He didn't believe it, he couldn't believe it was true. Only when they met their surprised and shy views did he believe it because he felt that they had already been alone.
After dinner the same night, the young went to the village.
He and Anna have already traveled together in Europe for three months.
They traveled around Venice, Rome, Naples, and just arrived in a small Italian town where they wanted to settle for a while.
A handsome ober-kelner with a neck-drop in thick hair, a freckle and a large white bat's breast shirt, with a bundle of keys over a rounded abdomen, put his hands in his pockets, sniffed with contempt, and responded strictly to something stopped by the gentleman.
Upon hearing from the other side of the entrance, the steps that had climbed up the stairs turned around and saw the Russian Count occupying their best rooms, respectfully took his hands out of his pockets and, bent down, explained that the courier had been there and that the case against the palazzo had taken place.
The chief manager is prepared to sign the condition.
'Ah! I am very pleased,' said Vronsky. 'Is the lady at home or not?
'They went out for a walk, but now they are back,' answered Kelner.
He removed from his head a soft hat with large fields, and put his handkerchief on a sweaty forehead, and his hair was loosed up to half his ears, scratched back and covered his baldness.
And when he looked at the gentleman standing and looking at him, he wanted to pass.
'The gentleman of this Russian asked about you,' said the Ober-kelner.
With a mixed sense of displeasure that you would not go away from your acquaintances, and a desire to find any distraction from the uniformity of your life, Wronsky once again looked back at the departed and stopped master; and at the same time, both had their eyes brightened.
'Golenishchev!
'Vronsky!
Indeed, it was Golenishchev, comrade of Vronski's Paže Corps.
Golenishchev in the corps belonged to a liberal party, came out of the corps with a civilian chin and never served anywhere.
The comrades split all the way out of the building and met only once.
At that meeting, he realized that Golenishchev had chosen some sublime liberal activity and, as a result, he wanted to despise the activities and the title of Vronski.
That's why, when he met Golenishchev, he gave him the cold and proud fight he could give to people, the meaning of which was, "You may or may not like my way of life, but I don't care: you have to respect me if you want to know me."
Golenishchev was contemptiblely indifferent to the tone of Vronsky. This meeting would seem to have further divided them.
Now they shined and cried out with joy when they came to know one another.
Wronsky never expected him to be so happy with Golenishchev, but he probably didn't know how bored he was.
He forgot the unpleasant impression of the last meeting and, with an open, joyful face, extended his hand to his former companion.
The same expression of joy replaced the previous disturbing expression of Golenishchev's face.
'How glad I am to meet you! 'Vronsky said, making a friendly smile of his strong white teeth.
'And I hear him, the one who -- he didn't know. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;And I hear, &lt;i&gt;Wronsky, but he -- he didn &gt; he didn't know. &gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I hear.
Very, very happy!
'Come in.
Well, what are you doing?
'I have lived here for the second year.
I'm working.
'Ah! 'Observatory,' said Vronsky. 'Come in.
And by the usual habit of the Russians, instead of saying what he wanted to hide from his servants in Russian, he spoke French.
'Do you know Karenina?
We travel together.
I am going to her,' he said in French, looking carefully in the face of Golenishchev.
'Ah!
I did not know (although he knew)," Golenishchev answered with indifference. 'How long have you been here?' 'He added.'
He answered on the fourth day, looking at his comrade's face again.
"Yeah, he's a decent man and he looks at the case as he should," he said to himself, understanding the meaning of Golenishchev's face and changing the conversation. 'You can introduce him to Anna, he sees how he should be.'
In these three months, he spent with Anna abroad, with new people, he always asked himself how this new face would look at his relationship with Anna, and he saw most of the understanding in men.
But if he were asked and asked of those who understood "how to do," what was that understanding, he and they would be in great difficulty.
In fact, those who understood "as they should" did not understand it in any way, but kept themselves at all how well-educated people behaved in relation to all difficult and unsolvable matters, on all sides of life around them -- kept themselves decent, avoiding insinuations and unpleasant questions.
They pretended to understand the meaning and meaning of the provision, to recognize it and even to approve it, but found it inappropriate and unnecessary to explain it all.
Holmes now realized that Golenishchev was one of them, so he was twice as happy with him. Indeed, Golenishchev kept himself with Karenina when he was introduced to her, as only he could have wished.
He apparently avoided, without the slightest effort, any conversation that might lead to awkwardness.
He did not know Anna before, and was struck by her beauty and even more simpleness, with which she accepted her position.
She blushed when Vronsky introduced Golenishchev, and this child's paint, covering her open and beautiful face, was extremely fond of him.
But he especially liked the fact that she immediately, as if on purpose, so that there could be no misunderstanding in a stranger's life, she just called Wronski Alexei and said that they were moving with him to a newly hired house called the palazzo here.
Golenishchev enjoyed this direct and simple attitude toward his position.
Looking at Anna's good-natured and entertaining energy - style, knowing Alexey Alexandrovich and Wronski, Golenishchev seemed to understand her quite well.
He felt that he understood what she did not understand — just how she could, by causing her husband's misery, leaving him and his son, and losing the good glory, feel energy, joy, and happiness.
'He is in the guide,' said Golenishchev, about the palazzo who hired Vronski. 'There's a beautiful Tintoretto there.
From his last era.
'You know what? The weather is beautiful, let's go there again, let's have a look at it,' he said, turning to Anna.
'I'm very glad I'm going to wear a hat.'
Are you saying it's hot? 'She said, stopping by the door, and looking at Vronsky in question.' And once again, the bright paint covered her face.
He understood from her view that she did not know what relationship he wanted with Golenishchev and that she was afraid that she was acting the way he wanted her to be.
He looked at her with a tender, long look.
'No, not very,' he said.
And it seemed to her that she understood, most important of all, that he was pleased with her; and when she smiled at him, she walked out the door quickly.
The pals looked at each other, and there was confusion in both faces, as if Golenishchev, who apparently loved her, wanted something--say anything about her and not find what, and he wanted and feared the same thing.
'That's how he started,' he began to start some conversation. 'So you settled here?
So you're still doing the same thing? 'He continued, remembering that he had been told that Golenishchev had written something...'
'Yes, I am writing the second part of Two Starts,' said Golenishchev with pleasure in this matter, 'that is, to be precise, I am not writing yet, but I am preparing, I am collecting materials.
It's gonna be much bigger and it's gonna take up almost all the questions.
We in Russia do not want to understand that we are the heirs of Byzantium,' he began a long, hot explanation.
It was embarrassing at first that he didn't even know the first article about the "two beginnings" that the author had mentioned as something known.
But then, when Golenishchev began to express his thoughts and he could have followed him, even though he did not know "The Two began," he listened to him with interest because Golenishchev spoke well.
But the irritation with which Golenishchev spoke about his subject was surprising and upsetting.
The further he spoke, the more his eyes lit up, the more hasty he objected to his perceived opponents and the more disturbing and insulted his face became.
After remembering Golenishchev as a skinny, living, good-natured and noble boy, always the first student in the corps, he was unable to understand or approve of the reasons for this irritation.
In particular, he didn't like the fact that Golenishchev, a man of a good circle, was getting on the same board with some writers who annoyed him, and he was angry with them.
Was it worth it?
He didn't like it, but even though he felt that Golenishchev was unhappy, he felt sorry for him.
Unhappiness, almost insanity, was seen in this moving, rather beautiful face, while he continued to express his thoughts in haste and heat, without even notice of Anna's exit.
When Anna came out wearing a hat and a cape and quickly moved her beautiful arm with an umbrella, he stopped by him, and with relief he fell away from the glamorous eyes of Golenishchev, and with new love looked at his lovely, full of life and joy to his friend.
Golenishchev found it difficult to remember, and at first he was despondent and dark, but Anna, who was fond of everything (which time it was), soon refreshed him with her simple and merry treatment.
After trying different things to talk about, she drew him into paintings, about which he spoke very well, and listened carefully to him.
They walked to the hired house and examined it.
'I am very happy to be alone,' said Anna Golenishchev, when they had already returned. 'Alexei will have a good attelier.
"Of course, you take this room," she said, in Russian, and you told him, because she had already realized that Golenishchev in their privacy would become a close man and that there was no need to hide in front of him.
'Do you write? 'O Golenishchev said, turning quickly to Vronsky.'
'Yes, I've been studying for a long time and now I've started a little,' he said, blushing.
'He has a great talent,' said Anna with a happy smile. 'I am certainly not a judge!
But the judges said the same thing.
In this first period of her release and rapid recovery, Anna felt unforgivably happy and full of joy.
The memory of her husband's misery did not poison her happiness.
The memory, on the one hand, was too terrible to think of. On the other hand, her husband's distress gave her too much happiness to repent.
A memory of everything that happened to her after her illness: reconciliation with her husband, breakup, news of the wound, his appearance, preparation for divorce, departure from her husband &apos; s house, goodbye to her son -- all seemed to her to be a hot dream from which she woke up alone with Wronski abroad.
The memory of her husband's evil caused her a feeling of disgust and similar to that of a drowning person who ripped away a man from himself.
The man drowned. Of course, it was bad, but it was the only rescue, and it's better not to think about those scary details.
One sedative discussion of what she had done came to her at the first minute of the breakup, and when she remembered the past, she remembered that reasoning.
'I have inevitably done this man's misery,' she thought, 'but I do not want to take advantage of it; nor do I suffer and will I suffer: I am losing what I treasured most,' I am losing an honest name and son.
I did wrong, so I don't want happiness, I don't want a divorce, and I will suffer shame and separation from my son."
But as much as Anna sincerely wanted to suffer, she did not suffer.
There was no shame.
With the tact that both had, they went abroad, avoiding Russian ladies, never put themselves in a false position, and met people everywhere who pretended to understand their mutual position much better than they themselves understood it.
The separation from the son she loved, and she didn't torment her the first time.
The girl, his child, has been so sweet and so attached to Anna since she was left with this one girl, which Anna rarely remembered about her son.
The need for life, increased by recovery, was so strong and the living conditions were so new and pleasant that Anna felt unforgivably happy.
The more she knew him, the more she loved him.
She loved him for himself and for his love for her.
She enjoyed full possession of them all the time.
Her closeness to him has always been pleasant.
All the features of his personality that she learned more and more were incredibly sweet to her.
His appearance, changed in plain clothes, was attractive to her as a young lover.
In everything he said, thought and did, she saw something especially noble and lofty.
Her admiration for him often frightened her; she searched for and could not find anything unbelievable in him.
She did not dare to show him the consciousness of her wretchedness in front of him.
She felt that, knowing this, he might not love her much more; and she was not so afraid of anything now, even though she had no reason to lose his love.
But she couldn't help but thank him for his attitude toward her and show her how much she appreciated it.
He, in her view, had such a certain calling for State action, in which he should have played a prominent role -- he sacrificed his ambition for her, never showing the slightest regret.
He was more than ever in love with her, and the thought that she would never feel embarrassed about her situation would never leave him for a moment.
He, such a courageous man, was not only not in conflict with her, but had no will, and seemed to be only busy warning her wishes.
And she could not help but appreciate it, even though it was the most tense of his attention to her, this atmosphere of concern that he had surrounded her, sometimes burdened her.
In the meantime, despite the full realization of what he wanted for so long, he was not entirely happy.
He soon felt that the fulfilment of his desire had brought him only a grain of sand from the mountain of happiness he had expected.
This implementation showed him the eternal error that humans make in realizing happiness in the pursuit of desire.
First, after joining her and wearing a civilian dress, he felt the beauty of freedom at all, which he had never known before, and freedom of love, and was pleased, but not for long.
He soon felt the desire, the sadness, in his soul.
Regardless of his will, he began to grasp every passing whim, accepting it as a desire and purpose.
Sixteen hours of the day had to be occupied with something because they lived abroad in perfect freedom, outside the circle of public life that took place in Petersburg.
It was impossible to think of the pleasures of a single life that had taken place abroad in the past, since one attempt of that kind had produced an unexpected and inappropriate late dinner with acquaintances in Anna.
It was impossible to have social relations with local and Russians, if their situation was uncertain.
The sighting of the sights, not to mention what was already visible, did not have for him, as for a Russian and a smart man, the unexplained significance that the English can attribute to this case.
And just as the hungry animal grabbed all the things that came into it, hoping to find food in it, again, he grasped the politics, the new books, and the paintings completely unconsciously.
Since he had the ability to paint, and because he, without knowing where to spend his money, started collecting engravings, he stopped at painting, took up painting and placed in it that unoccupied stock of desires that required satisfaction.
He had the ability to understand art and true, with the taste to imitate art, and he thought that he had what he needed for an artist, and, having hesitated for some time what kind of painting he would choose: religious, historical or realistic, he began to write.
He understood all the births and could be inspired by both; but he could not imagine not knowing at all what the handiwork was, nor could he be inspired directly by what was in the soul, without caring whether what he would write would belong to any known kind.
Since he did not know this and was inspired not directly by life, but indirectly by life already embodied in art, he was inspired very quickly and easily and as quickly and easily achieved that what he wrote was very similar to the kind he wanted to imitate.
More than anything else, he liked French, graceful and glamorous, and in that way he began writing Anna's portrait in an Italian suit, and it seemed to him and everyone who saw him to be very successful.
An old, launched palazzo with high-blind plateaus and frescoes on the walls, with puzzle floors, with heavy yellow steaks on high windows, vases on consoles and fireplaces, with sliced doors and dark halls of paintings -- this palazzo, after moving into it, by his own appearance, maintained a pleasant delusion in Vronsk that he was not so much a Russian landowner, an egermeister without service as an enlightened amateur and patron of the arts, and himself a modest artist who had abandoned light, connections, love for the woman he loved.
The role he had chosen with the move to the palazzo was entirely successful and, having met some interesting people through Golenishchev, he was at first calm.
He wrote under the leadership of an Italian professor of painting from nature and was engaged in medieval Italian life.
Middle-century Italian life has lately been so flattered by Vronski that he even squeezed his hat and hood over his shoulder to wear mid-centuryly, which was very close to him.
'And we live and know nothing,' said he, who came to them in the morning, Golenishchev. 'Have you seen the Michailov painting?' 'He said, giving him a Russian newspaper just received this morning, and pointing to an article about a Russian artist living in the same city who had finished a painting that had long been rumored and had been bought in advance.
The article appealed to the Government and the Academy for the fact that a wonderful artist had been deprived of all encouragement and assistance.
'I have seen it,' answered Golenishchev. 'Of course, he is not without a gift, but a totally false direction.
Still the same Ivanian-Straussian-Renan attitude toward Christ and religious painting.
'What does the painting represent?' 'Anna asked.'
'The Christ before Pilate.
Christ is represented by a Jew with all the realism of the new school.
And, as to the content of the painting on one of his favorite topics, Golenishem began to say:
'I don't understand how they can be so rudely mistaken.'
Christ already has a certain expression in the art of the great old. So if they want to pretend to be a revolutionary or a wise man instead of a god, let them take Socrates, Franklin, Charlotte Cordé, but not Christ.
They take the same face they can't take for art, and then...
'What, is it true that this Michailov is in such poverty?' 'Wronski asked, thinking that he, like a Russian mecenata, whether or not he was good or bad, should help the artist.
'I don't think so.
He's a great portrait player.
Did you see his portrait of Vasylczykova?
But he doesn't seem to want to write portraits anymore, so maybe he's in need.
I'm saying that...
'Can't he be asked to make a portrait of Anna Arkadievna? 'Vronsky said.'
'What's mine for? - told Anna. 'I don't want any portrait after yours.
Better than Annie. That's what she called her girl.
Here she is,' she added, looking out the window at the beautiful Italian nurse, who took the child to the garden, and immediately, without notice, looked back at Vronski.
The beautiful nurse with whom he wrote his head for his painting was the only secret grief in Anna's life.
While he wrote from her, he admired her beauty and medievalness, and Anna dared not confess that she was afraid to be jealous of that nurse, so she especially caressed and spoiled both her and her little son.
He also looked out the window and into Anna's eyes, and immediately turned to Golenishchev, and said,
'Do you know Mikhaylov's ego?
'I've met him.
But he's a weirdo without any education.
You know, one of those wild new people who now meet a lot; you know, of those free-thinking people who d'emblee is raised in the concepts of infidelity, denial, and materialism.
Before it happened,' said Golenishchev, unaware of or unwilling to note that both Anna and Vronski wanted to speak, &quot; there used to be a free-thinking man who grew up in the concepts of religion, law, morality, and struggle itself, and labor; but now there is a new type of self-inflicted free-thinker who grow up without even hearing that there were laws of morality, religions, that there was authority, and that there was a direct rise in the notion of denial of everything, that is, wild.
That's what he is.
He's a son, I think, of the Moscow Lacey Camera, and he didn't get any education.
When he joined the Academy and made himself a reputation, he wanted to form himself like a fool.
And he turned to what he thought was a source of education -- magazines.
And you see, in the old days, the man who wanted to be formed, let's put the French, would have studied all the classics, the scholars, the tragedies, the historians, the philosophers, and, you know, all the work of intelligence that would have preceded him.
But now we've got him right on the negative literature, and he's got the whole science extract very quickly negative, and he's ready.
Not only that: twenty years ago, he would have found in this literature signs of a struggle against authority, against centuries-old beliefs, he would have understood from this struggle that something else was going on; but now he's going straight to one that doesn't even have old views to argue with, but they say, nothing, evolution, selection, struggle for existence -- that's all.
I'm in my article...
'You know what,' said Anna, who had been careful for a long time with Wronsky and knew that he was not interested in the education of that artist, but merely in helping him and ordering him a portrait. 'You know what? 'She strongly interrupted Golenishchev's conversation. 'Let's go to him!
Golenishchev remembered and willingly agreed. But since the artist lived in the long block, they decided to take a stroller.
An hour later, Anna, near Golenishchev and at the front, at the front of the wheelchair, drove up to a beautiful new house in the long block.
After learning from the wife of the janitor who came out to them that Mikhaylov was let into his studio, but that he was now in his apartment two feet away, they sent her to him with their cards, asking for permission to see his paintings.
Michaelov's artist, as always, was behind the job when he was given the cards of Count Wronski and Golenishchev.
He worked in the studio this morning on a big painting.
When he came to his house, he was angry with his wife for not being able to deal with the mistress who demanded the money.
'Two dozen times I told you, do not enter into the explanation.
You're already an idiot, and you're gonna start explaining in Italian, and you're gonna be a triple idiot,' he said to her after a long argument.
'So don't run it, it's not my fault.
If I had money...
'Leave me alone, for God's sake! 'He cried with tears in the voice of the Michaels, and shut his ears and went to his working room behind the partition and locked the door behind him.'
"Lowered!" 'He said to himself, sat down at the table, and, when he opened the folder, immediately began the drawing with special heat.
He never worked with such heat and success as when his life was bad, and especially when he was fighting with his wife.
"Oh! I wish I hadn't gone anywhere!" 'I thought he was still working.'
He made a drawing for the figure of a man in a fit of anger.
The drawing was made before; but he was displeased with it.
"No, he was better...
Where is he?"
He went to his wife and, drowned, without looking at her, asked the older girl where the paper he had given them.
A paper with an abandoned sketch was found, but it was soiled and buried with Stearin.
After all, he took the drawing, put it on his desk, and looked away and gazed at it.
Suddenly, he smiled and shoved his hands in joy.
'Well, well!' he said, and immediately, taking a pencil, began drawing quickly.
A stain of stearina gave a man a new pose.
He was drawing this new pose, and I suddenly remembered him with an outstanding chin, the energyy face of the merchant he took the cigars from, and he's a sa-- my face, this chin painted to a man.
He laughed with joy. The figure suddenly came from a dead, made-up life and one that couldn't be changed.
The figure lived and was clearly and unequivocally defined.
You could adjust the drawing to the requirements of this figure, you could and should have even set your legs differently, completely changed the position of your left arm, and you could have your hair back.
But when he made these corrections, he didn't change the figures, but he just threw away what was hiding the figure.
It was as if he had removed from it the veils from which it was not all visible; every new feature only showed the whole figure more in all its energy power, as it appeared to him suddenly from a steary stain produced by Stear.
He carefully finished the figure when the cards were brought to him.
'Now, now!
He went to see his wife.
'A lot, Sasha, don't be angry!' he said to her with a gentle smile. 'It was your fault. It was my fault.
I'll take care of it. 'And when he made peace with his wife, he put on an olive with a velvet collar coat and a hat, and went to the studio.
The successful figure was already forgotten by him.
Now he was excited and excited to see his studio by these important Russians who came in a wheelchair.
About his painting, the one that was now on his mobile, he had one judgment deep down -- that no one had ever written a picture like that.
He didn't think his painting was better than everyone else in Raphaelev, but he knew that what he wanted to convey and convey in this painting was never handed over.
He knew it firmly and knew it long ago, since he began writing it; but the judgment of the people, whatever they were, was still of great importance to him and deeply concerned him.
Every remark, the slightest one, showing that the judges saw even a small part of what he saw in the painting, was deeply disturbing to him.
He has always attributed to his judges the depth of understanding beyond what he himself had, and has always expected something from them that he himself did not see in his painting. And often in the audience's judgment, he thought he'd found it.
He walked quickly to his studio door, and despite his excitement, the soft lighting of Anna's figure, standing in the shadow of the approach, listening to the hot Golenishchev saying something to her, and at the same time apparently wanting to look around a suitable artist, struck him.
He himself did not notice how he approached them, grabbed and swallowed that impression, as did the chin of the merchant who sold the cigars, and hid it somewhere where he would take it out when he needed it.
Visitors who were already disappointed with Golenishchev's story about the artist were even more disappointed with his appearance.
The average height, dense, spinning walk, Michailov, in his brown hat, in his olive coat, and in narrow pantallons, while for a long time, the broad, particularly the commonness of his broad face and the combination of the expression of shyness and the desire to live up to his dignity, was distasteful.
'I beseech you,' he said, trying to look indifferent, and when he entered into the hay, he took out the key from his pocket and opened the door.
When he entered the studio, Michaelov again looked at the guests and noted in his imagination the expression of the face, especially his cheekbone.
Despite the fact that his artistic sense continued to work, collecting material, despite the fact that he felt more and more excited about the fact that a minute of judgement was approaching about his work, he quickly and thinly made up his mind about the three individuals.
The one (Gollenishchev) was Russian here.
Michaelov didn't remember his last name or where he met him or what he talked to. He only remembered his face, as he remembered all the faces he'd ever seen, but he remembered, too, that it was one of the people who had been placed in his imagination in a huge department of false and poor expression.
Big hair and a very open forehead gave an external significance to a person who had one small child's troubled expression focusing on a narrow Transporter.
Vronsky and Karenna, for Michailov's sake, were supposed to be noble and rich Russians who didn't know anything about art, like all rich Russians, but who pretended to be amateurs and admirers.
'That's right, they've already looked at the whole old thing, and now the studios of the new ones are coming, the German charlatan and the British pre-raphaelite fool, and I'm only here to see the fullness of the sight,' he thought.
He knew very well the manner of amateurs (the smarter they were, the worse) to examine the studios of modern artists only in order to have the right to say that art had fallen and that the more you look at new ones, the more you see how the great ancient masters remain incredible.
He waited for it, saw it all in their faces, saw it in the insensitive negligence with which they spoke to each other, looked at mannequins and busts, and walked freely, waiting for him to open the painting.
But in spite of this, while he was reshuffling his lines, lifting his curtains and filming his sheet, he felt a lot of excitement, and the more so that, despite the fact that all the nobles and rich Russians were supposed to be cattle and fools in his concept, he liked Wronsky and, in particular, Anna.
'Here, would you like that?' 'He said, pivoting to the side and pointing to the painting. 'This is Pilate's admonition.
Matthew Chapter XXVII,' he said, feeling his lips shaking with excitement. He stood back and stood behind them.
In the few seconds during which the visitors were silently staring at the painting, Michaelov also looked at it, and looked at it with an uneasy, outside eye.
In these few seconds, he believed ahead that the highest, most fair trial would be pronounced by them, precisely those visitors he so despised a minute ago.
He forgot all that he had thought of his painting before, in the three years that he wrote it; he forgot all the virtues that were certain to him; he saw the painting of them with a indifferent, foreign, new look, and saw nothing good in it.
On the first hand, he saw Pilate's disgruntled face and the calm face of Christ and on the second hand the figures of Pilate's servants, looking at what was happening, John's face.
Every person, with such a search, with such mistakes, with such corrections, who grew up in it with her special character, every person who brought him so much suffering and joy, and all those persons who have been moved so many times to observe the common ground, all the shades of color and tone so hard achieved by him -- all these things together now, looking at them with their eyes, seemed to him a naughty thing, a thousand times repeatable.
His most precious face, the face of Christ, the centerpiece of the painting, which made him so excited at his discovery, was all lost to him when he looked at the painting with their eyes.
He saw well written (and not even good -- he now clearly saw a bunch of faults) the repetition of those endless Christ Titian, Rafael, Rubens, and the same warriors and Pilate.
All of this went, poor and old, and even poorly written -- pestro and weak.
They'll be right to say pretentious phrases in front of the artist and feel sorry for him and laugh at him when they're alone.
This silence became too difficult for him (although it did not last more than a minute).
To interrupt him and show that he wasn't excited, he made an effort to turn to Golenishchev.
'I seem to have had the pleasure of meeting him,' he said to him, anxiously looking back at Anna, and at Vronski, in order not to throw out any features of their faces.
'Oh, yes! We met at Rossi's, remember, this evening where this Italian young lady, the new Rachel, spoke freely, without the slightest regret, looking away from the painting and addressing the artist.
Observing, however, that Michaelov was awaiting judgement about the painting, he said:
'Your painting has moved very much since I last saw it. And both then and now, I am incredibly struck by the figure Pilate.
That's how you understand this man, a kind, nice little man, but an official down to the bottom of his soul who doesn't know what he's doing.
But I think...
All of Mikhaylov's mobile face suddenly brightened, with his eyes glowing.
He wanted to say something, but he couldn't talk out of the excitement and pretend he was coughing up.
No matter how low he appreciated the ability to understand the art of Golenishchev, the just remark about the fidelity of Pilate's face as an official would be offensive to him if the first such pitiful remark was not mentioned, but the most important one, Michaelov was impressed by it.
He himself thought of Pilate's figure the same thing that Golenishchev said.
The fact that this consideration was one of the millions of other considerations that Michaelov firmly knew would all be true would not diminish the significance of Golenishchev's comment to him.
He fell in love with Golenishchev for that remark, and from a state of displeasure he suddenly became thrilled.
At once, his whole picture came to life before him, with the untold complexity of all living things.
Michaelov once again tried to say that he understood Pilate that way; but his lips were unruly shaking, and he could not speak.
In part, in order not to insult the artist, and in part not to say loud stupidity, which is so easy to say when talking about art, they usually speak at art exhibitions.
Michaelov seemed to be impressed with the painting as well. He approached them.
'What an amazing expression of Christ! 'Anna said.
Of all the things she saw, she liked that expression the most, and she felt that it was the center of the painting, and that's why the artist would appreciate it. 'It appears that he feels sorry for Pilate.
Once again, it was one of the million faithful considerations that could be found in his painting and in the figure of Christ.
She said he felt sorry for Pilate.
There must also be an expression of pity in Christ's expression, for it contains an expression of love, an unearthly calm, a willingness to die, and a consciousness of the vanity of words.
Of course, there is the expression of an official in Pilate and pity in Christ, for one personification of carnal life and the other of spiritual life.
All of this and a lot of other things have gotten into Mikhaylov's mind. And again, his face was radiant.
'Yes, and how this figure was made, how much air.
'It is possible to bypass,' said Golenishchev, showing clearly by this observation that he does not approve of the content and thought of the figure.
'Yes, a remarkable skill!' said Vronsky. 'How these figures stand out in the background!
Here's the technique,' he said, turning to Golenishchev, and with this insinuating a previous conversation between them that he was desperate to acquire this technique.
'Yeah, yeah, it's amazing! 'Reconfirmed by Golenishchev and Anna.
Despite the excruciating state in which he was, the remark about the technique hurts Mikhaylov's heart, and he pissed himself off when he looked at Vronski.
He often heard the word technique and was determined not to understand what it meant.
He knew that by that word they understood the mechanical ability to write and draw, completely independent of the content.
He often noticed, as in true praise, that technology was opposed to internal dignity, as if you could write good things that were bad.
He knew that it took a lot of attention and care to remove the cover, not to damage the work itself, and to remove all the cover; but the art of writing, there was no technology here.
If the little child or his cook were also exposed to what he saw, she would also be able to hatch what she saw.
And the most experienced and skilled painter could not write anything with the same mechanical ability if it had not been opened before the maintenance boundary.
Besides, he saw that if we were talking about technology, he couldn't be praised for it.
In everything he wrote and wrote, he saw the faults that cut his eyes from the carelessness with which he removed the veils, and which he could no longer repair without ruining the whole work.
And on almost all the figures and faces, he saw the leftovers that weren't completely removed, ruining the painting.
'One thing to say is, if you would allow me to make this observation...' observed Golenishchev.
'Ah, I am very pleased and beseech you,' said Michaelov, pretending to smile.
'It's that you have a human being, not a man of God.'
Anyway, I know that's what you wanted.
'I couldn't write the Christ that I didn't have in my soul,' said Michaelov, darkly.
'Yes, but in that case, if you allow me to speak your mind...'
Your picture is so good that my comment can't hurt her, and then it's my personal opinion. That's not what you have.
The motive is different. But let's take Ivanov.
I believe that if Christ is reduced to a degree of history, it would be better for Ivanov to choose another historical topic, fresh, untouched.
'But if this is the greatest subject that art represents?'
'If you look, there will be others.
But the thing is, art doesn't tolerate debate and reasoning.
And in the painting of Ivanov, for a believer and for an unbeliever, is the question whether it is God or not? and destroys the unity of the impression.
'Why not?'
It seems to me that for educated people," Michailov said, "a dispute can no longer exist.
Golenishchev did not agree with this, and by sticking to his first thought of the only impression needed for art, he smashed Mikhaylov.
Michaelov was worried, but he couldn't say anything to defend his mind...
Anna and Wronsky had a long time to look back at their friend's clever talk, and, finally, he crossed over without waiting for the master to see another, small painting.
'Oh, what a beauty, what a beauty!
A miracle!
It's lovely! They're talking in one voice.
"What did they like so much?" 'I thought of the Michaels.' He forgot about this painting, which was written three years ago.
Forgot all the suffering and excitement he experienced with this painting, when she was alone for a few months and took up the day and night, forgetting how he always forgot about the finished paintings.
He didn't even like to look at her and stood out just because he was waiting for an Englishman to buy her.
'That's right, that's a long time ago,' he said.
'How good! 'Oh, Golenishchev said, too, who obviously fell under the beauty of the painting.
Two boys in the shadow of the crustite caught fish with sticks.
One, the eldest, had just thrown a rod and carefully pulled the float out of the bush, all absorbed in the case; the other, younger, lay on the grass, blocking the convoluted blonde head on his hands, and looked at the water with thoughtful blue eyes.
What was he thinking?
His admiration for this painting moved his previous excitement in Michaelov, but he feared and didn't like that idle feeling for the past, and therefore, while he was happy with those praises, he wanted to distract visitors to the third painting.
But he asked if the painting was for sale.
For Michailov, now agitated by the visitors, it was very unpleasant to talk about the money business.
'It is displayed for sale,' he answered, drowning.
When the visitors left, Michaelov sat down against the painting of Pilate and Christ and in his mind repeated what had been said, though not said, but implied by those visitors.
And weirdly, what mattered so much to him when they were here and when he thought about their point of view suddenly lost all meaning to him.
He began to look at his picture with all his full artistic eyes and came to a state of confidence in perfection and, therefore, in the greatness of his picture that he needed to eliminate all the other interests in which he could work.
Christ's leg wasn't right from the point of view.
He took a palette and started working.
When he corrected his leg, he constantly looked at John's figure in the background, which the visitors did not notice, but which he knew was superior to perfection.
When he finished his leg, he wanted to take this figure, but he felt too excited for it.
He couldn't work in the same way when he was cold, as he was when he was too soft and he saw too much.
There was only one step in this transition from the cold to the inspiration at which work was possible.
And now he's too excited. He wanted to close the painting, but stopped and, holding the sheet with his hand, smiled blissfully, looked at John's figure for a long time.
Finally, as if with sadness, tearing down the sheet, and tired but happy, he went to his place.
Holmes, Anna, and Golenishchev, when they returned home, were particularly busy and entertained.
They were talking about Michaelov and his paintings.
The word of talent by which they understood their natural, almost physical ability, independent of mind and heart, and to which they wanted to name everything that was experienced by an artist, was particularly common in their conversation, as it was necessary for them to call what they had no idea but wanted to talk about.
They said that he could not be denied talent, but that his talent could not develop from a lack of education -- the common misery of our Russian artists.
But the boys' picture went into their memories, and no, no, they went back to her. 'What a beauty!
How he did it and how easy it was!
He doesn't know how good it is.
Yeah, we shouldn't miss it and buy it,' he said.
XIII
Michaelov sold his picture and agreed to make a portrait of Anna.
On the appointed day, he came and began his work.
From the fifth session, the portrait struck everyone, and in particular Vronsky, not only with resemblance, but also with special beauty.
It was weird how Michailov could find that special beauty of hers.
"I should have known and loved her, as I loved, to find that sweetest expression of her mind," he thought, although by that portrait he had only learned of that sweetest expression of hers.
But the expression was so true that he and others felt that they knew him a long time ago.
'How long have I been beating and done nothing,' he said about his portrait, 'and he looked and wrote.
That's what technology means.
'This will come,' comforted him by Golenishchev, whose sense of talent and, above all, education gave him a lofty view of art.
Golenishchev's conviction in his talent was also supported by his need for compassion and praise for his articles and thoughts, and he felt that praise and support should be mutual.
In someone else's house, and especially in the palazzo at the Vronski Michails, he was a completely different man than he was at his studio.
He was indecently respectful, as if afraid of getting close to people he didn't respect.
He called Wronsky, your ladyship, and never, despite the invitations of Anna and Vronski, stayed for lunch or came but for sessions.
Anna was more than anyone else, fond of him and grateful for her portrait.
He was more than courteous with him and apparently interested in the artist's judgment about his painting.
Golenishchev didn't miss a chance to insinuate Michailov with real notions of art.
But Mikhaylov remained equally cold for everyone.
Anna felt that he liked to look at her; but he avoided talking to her.
He continued to keep his silence and to keep his silence when he was shown the painting of Vronski, and apparently he was burdened by the talk of Golenishchev and did not object to it.
As a matter of fact, they didn't like the Mikhaylov's self-restraint and distasteful, as if hostile, attitude when they got to know him. And they were happy when the sessions ended, and there was a beautiful portrait in their hands, and he stopped walking.
Golenishchev was the first to express the thought that everyone had -- exactly that Mikhaylov was just jealous of Vronski.
'Let's say, he's not jealous because he has a talent: but he is disappointed that a courtman and a rich man is still a count (they all hate it), doing the same thing without much difficulty, if not better than he, who has dedicated his entire life to it.
It's about an education he doesn't have.
He defended Michailov, but deep down, he believed it because he understood that the man of another, the lower world, was to be jealous.
Anna &apos; s portrait, the same one written by him and Mikhaylov, should have shown the difference between him and Mikhaylov, but he did not see it.
It was only after Michailov that he stopped writing his portrait of Anna, thinking it was no longer necessary.
On the other hand, he continued the painting of his medieval life.
Both he and Golenishchev, and in particular Anna, found that she was very good because she was much more like famous paintings than Mikhaylov's.
In the meantime, although Anna's portrait was very attractive to him, Michaelov was even more pleased than they were when the sessions were over and he didn't have to listen to Golenishchev any more about art, and we could forget the paintings.
He knew that he should not be prohibited from spoiling the painting; he knew that he and all amateurs had every right to write whatever they wanted, but he felt uncomfortable.
You can't stop a man from making a big wax doll and kissing it.
But if this man with the doll came and sat down in front of the lover, and began to caress his doll like a lover caressing the one he loves, it would be unpleasant for the lover.
The same unpleasant feeling was felt by the Michails when they saw the painting of Deuteronomy; it was both funny and distasteful, and pitiful and insulting.
The fascination of Bologna's painting and the Middle Ages did not last long.
He had so much taste in painting that he couldn't finish his painting.
The painting stopped. He felt vaguely that the shortcomings of her, little visible at the beginning, would be amazing if he continued.
The same thing happened to Golenishchev, who feels that he has nothing to say, and who constantly deceives himself that the thought is not ripe, that he carries it and prepares the materials.
But Golenishchev was angry and tormented, but he could not deceive and torment himself, and especially be angry.
He was determined to stop painting without explaining or excusing himself.
But without this exercise, his and Anna's life, surprised by his disappointment, seemed so bored in the Italian city, the palazzo suddenly became so obviously old and dirty, so unpleasantly looking at the stains on the garrisons, the cracks on the floors, the broken plaster on the carnis, and so bored all the same Golenishchev, the Italian professor and the German traveler, that it was necessary to change life.
They decided to go to Russia, to the village.
In Petersburg, Wronsky intended to share with his brother, and Anna intended to see her son.
In the summer, however, they intended to live in the great family home of Wronsky.
XIV
Levin was married for the third month.
He was happy, but he wasn't as happy as he expected.
At every turn, he found disappointment in his old dreams and a new unexpected charm.
Levin was happy, but when he entered the family life, he saw at every step that it was not at all what he imagined.
At every step, he experienced the experience of a man who loved the smooth, happy passage of a boat through the lake after he himself had boarded that boat.
He saw that it was not enough to sit still without swinging -- you have to think, not for a moment, not forgetting where to swim, that water under your feet, and that it hurts with unusual hands, that it's easy to look at it, and that it's very happy to do it, but it's very difficult to do it.
When he was single, looking at someone else's marital life, petty care, quarreling, jealousy, he smiled in the shower with contempt.
Not only could there be no such thing in his future marriage, he believed, but even all external forms seemed to him to be completely different from the lives of others.
And all of a sudden, not only did his life with his wife not turn out to be special, but, on the contrary, it was all made up of the tiniest little things that he had despised so much before, but now, against his will, had received extraordinary and incontrovertible significance.
And Levin saw that the device of all these little things wasn't as easy as he thought it would be.
Despite Levin &apos; s belief that he had the most precise concepts of family life, he, like all men, imagined an involuntary family life only as a pleasure of love, from which nothing should have been prevented and from which little care should not have been diverted.
He was supposed to work his job and rest from it in the happiness of love.
She was supposed to be loved, that's all.
But he, like all men, forgot she had to work. And he wondered how she, this poetic, adorable Kitty, could, in the first few weeks, not only think, remember and care about tablecloths, furniture, visitors' tuffs, trays, cooks, lunches, etc.
As an ex-fiancé, he was struck by the certainty with which she refused to travel abroad and decided to go to the village as if she knew something that needed to be done and, apart from her love, could still think of a stranger.
This insulted him then, and now several times her petty troubles and concerns have insulted him.
But he saw that she needed it. And when he loved her, though he did not understand why, even though he laughed at these concerns, he could not help but look at them.
He laughed at how she was setting up furniture brought from Moscow, how she was cleaning her room and his room in a new way, how she hung her wardrobes, how she distributed the future guest room for Dolly, how she arranged the room for her new girlfriend, how she ordered lunch for an old cook, how she was in a dispute with Agatha Mikhaylovna, keeping her from food.
He saw that the old chef smiled, admiring her, and listening to her illustrious, impossible orders; he saw that Agatha Mikhaylovna shoved her head gently and gently to the new orders of the young lady in the storeroom; he saw that Kitty was adorably sweet when she came to him, laughing and crying, to announce that Mary's girlfriend was used to believing that she was a young lady and that no one was listening to her.
He thought it was nice, but weird, and he thought he'd be better off without it.
He didn't know the feeling of change she felt after she sometimes wanted kaws or candy cabbages at home, and neither could have, and now she could order what she wanted, buy a bunch of candy, spend as much money as she wanted and order whatever cake she wanted.
She was now happy to dream of Dolly coming with the kids, especially because she's gonna order her favorite cake for the kids, and Dolly's gonna appreciate all of her new devices.
She didn't know why or why, but the household was inexorably attracted to her.
She instinctively sensed the approach of spring, knowing that there would be days of distaste, wil, as she could, her nest, and hurryed at the same time and shoved it and learned how to do it.
This petty concern of Kitty, so contrary to Levin's ideal of the great happiness of the first time, was one of the disappointments; and this sweet concern, which he did not understand but couldn't help but love, was one of the new charms.
Another disappointment and charm were the quarrels.
Levin never imagined that there could be a relationship between him and his wife other than affectionate, respectful, loving, and suddenly they had had an argument from the first days, so she told him that he didn't love her, loved himself alone, cried and waved her hands.
The first time they fought was that Levin went to the new cockroach and stayed half an hour, because he wanted to drive by the next road and got lost.
He was on his way home just thinking about her, about her love, about his happiness, and the closer he got, the more tenderness he became to her.
He ran into the room with the same feeling and even stronger than the one he came to Scherbatsky to propose. And suddenly he was met with a dark expression he had never seen in it.
He wanted to kiss her, she pushed him away.
'What are you?
'You're having fun...' she began, wanting to be calmly poisoned.
But she just opened her mouth, like the words of the reproach of pointless jealousy, all that tormented her in the half hour that she had spent standing still sitting on the window, broke out of her.
It was only for the first time that he understood what he did not understand when he took her out of the church after the crown. He realized that she wasn't only close to him, but that he didn't know where she ended up and he started.
He understood that by the excruciating feeling of doubleness he was experiencing at this moment.
He was insulted at the first minute, but the second he felt that he couldn't be offended by her, that she was himself.
At the very first moment, he felt the same way that a person felt when, suddenly having a strong blow from behind, he turned back with anger and a desire for revenge to find the perpetrator, and he became convinced that he himself had accidentally struck himself, that there was no one to be angry with, and that the pain had to be put to rest.
He never felt that strong after that, but this first time he couldn't remember for a long time.
The natural feeling required him to defend himself, to prove her guilt; but to prove her guilt was to annoy her even more and to make more of a tear that was the cause of all grief.
One of his usual feelings moved him to take the blame off himself and into her; another feeling, stronger, led him to make amends as soon as possible, preventing the breakup from widening.
It was painful to remain with such an unfair accusation, but it made her feel even worse when she was acquitted.
As a person in a half-sleep pain, he wanted to tear off a sick spot, throw it away, and when he remembered, he felt that the sick spot was himself.
All you had to do was help a sick place get over it, and he tried to do it.
They made up.
When she realized her guilt but did not express it, she became tender to him, and they experienced a new, double happiness of love.
But this did not prevent these clashes from happening again, and even more often, for the most unexpected and negligible reasons.
These clashes often occurred because they did not yet know what was important to each other, and because they were both often in a bad mood all along in the first place.
When one was in good and the other was in bad, the world was not broken, but when the two were in a bad position, the clashes arose out of so little reason that they could never remember what they were fighting about.
True, when they were both in a good mood, the joy of life doubled. But it was a difficult time for them at first.
In all this early years, there was a particular sense of tension, as if twitching both sides of the chain they were connected to.
In fact, that honeymoon, that is, the month after the wedding, from which Levin had traditionally expected so much, was not only a honeymoon, but remained in the memory of both of them the most difficult and humiliating time of their lives.
They both tried in the same way in later life to remove from their minds all the ugly, shameful circumstances of this unhealthy time, when they were both rarely in a normal mood, rarely in themselves.
Only for the third month of marriage, after their return from Moscow, where they travelled for a month, their lives became evener.
XV
They just arrived from Moscow and were happy to be alone.
He sat in the office by the desk and wrote.
She, in that dark-leaf dress she wore the first days of her marriage, and now she's wearing it again, which was especially memorable and dear to him, sat on the couch, on the very leather old sofa, which was always in the office of Levin's grandfather and father, and made broderie anglaise.
He thought and wrote without losing his joy at her presence.
His studies and his household and the book in which the foundations of the new economy were to be set forth were not left to them; but as before, these activities and thoughts appeared to him to be small and insignificant in comparison with the darkness that had covered his whole life, they were no longer important and small in comparison with the bright light of the life to come.
He continued his studies, but now felt that the focus of his attention had shifted to another and that, as a result, he had a very different and clearer view of the case.
It used to be a lifesaver for him.
He had previously felt that without this work his life would be too dark. Now, however, he needed these lessons so that life would not be too uniform.
Going back to his paperwork, rereading what was written, he was happy to find that it was worth it.
The case was new and useful. Many of his earlier thoughts seemed redundant and extreme, but many of the gaps became clear to him when he refreshed his memory.
He now wrote a new chapter on the reasons for the disadvantage of farming in Russia.
He argued that Russia &apos; s poverty came not only from the misdistribution of land ownership and false direction, but that it had recently been facilitated by Russia &apos; s abnormal introduction of external civilization, especially the routes of communication, of railways, which had led to the centralization of cities, the development of luxury and, as a result, to the detriment of farming, the development of the factory industry, credit and its satellite, the exchange game.
He felt that, with the normal development of wealth in the State, all of these phenomena came only when agriculture was already under considerable pressure, when it was under the right conditions, at least under certain conditions; that the country &apos; s wealth had to grow evenly and in particular in such a way that other sectors of wealth did not outpace agriculture; that according to the known state of agriculture, there should be ways and means of communication; and that, in our misuse of land, railways, which were caused not by economic but political necessity, had been premature and, instead of promoting the farming that was expected of them, by ahead of agriculture and by encouraging the development of industry and credit, had stopped it, and that therefore, just as the unilateral and premature development of the animal organ would impede its overall development, so for the overall development of wealth in Russia, the credit, the means of communication, the intensification of the factory activities that were clearly needed in Europe, where they were timely, had only done damage to us by removing the main question of the organization of farming.
In the meantime, while writing her own, she thought of her husband's carelessness with the young Prince of Charski, who was very tender to her on the eve of her departure.
'Cause he's jealous,' she thought. 'Oh, my God! I don't know how cute and stupid he is.
He's jealous of me!
If he knew they were all like Peter's cook to me,' she thought, looking at her strange sense of ownership of his head and red neck. 'It's a shame to keep him out of class, but he'll make it!) have to look at his face; will he feel that I'm looking at him?
I want him to turn around...
I want to, well!" 'And she opened her eyes wide, seeking to increase the effect of her eyes.
'Yes, they distract themselves with all the juices and give false gloss,' he muttered, stopping to write, and feeling that she was looking at him and smiling, looked back.
'What? 'He asked, smiling and rising up.'
"I looked back," she thought.
'Nothing, I wanted you to look back,' she said, looking at him and wondering whether he was upset or not that she had ripped him off.
'Well, how good it is for the two of us!
I mean,' he said, approaching her and smiling at her with a smile of happiness.
'I feel so good!
I'm not going anywhere, especially to Moscow.
'What were you thinking?
'I am?
I thought...
No, no, go write, don't have fun,' she said, wrinkling lips, 'and now I have to cut out these holes, see?
She took scissors and started screaming.
'No, tell me what? 'He said, sitting down with her and watching the circular movement of the little scissors.'
'Oh, what did I think?'
I was thinking about Moscow, your back of the head.
'What exactly am I happy for?'
Unnaturally.
Too well,' he said, kissing her hand.
'For me, on the contrary, the better, the more natural.
'And you have a braid,' he said, turning her head carefully. 'Cause it's a pussy.
See, right here.
No, no, we're on the case.
The class wasn't going on, and they jumped off each other as they were guilty when Kuzma came in to report that the tea was served.
'And have you come from the city?' 'I asked Levin of Kuzma.'
'They've just arrived, they're working it out.
'Come quickly,' she said to him, leaving the office, 'or I will read the letters without you.
And let's play four hands.
As he was left alone and took his notebooks into a new briefcase she had bought, he began to wash his hands in a new washroom with new, yet elegant, supplies.
Levin smiled at his thoughts and shoved his head against those thoughts; a feeling like repentance tormented him. Something ashamed, tender, Capua, as he called it, was in his present life.
"It's not good to live this way," he thought. 'That's three months from now, and I'm barely doing anything.
This is almost the first time I've taken my job seriously, so what?
I just started and quit.
Even my usual classes -- and I almost left them.
On the house -- and I hardly ever go or go.
I feel sorry for leaving her, but I can see she's bored.
And I thought getting married wasn't a big deal, so it doesn't count, and then it's gonna be a real one.
And three months soon, and I've never been so idle and useless that I didn't spend any time.
No, we can't, we gotta get started.
Of course it wasn't her fault.
There was nothing to blame her for.
I should have been stronger myself to protect my male independence.
'Cause you can get used to it and teach her...
Of course it wasn't her fault,' he said to himself.
But it is hard for a person to be displeased not to blame someone else, or someone who is closest to him in what he is displeased with.
Levin was confused that it was not her fault (she could not have been guilty of anything), but that her upbringing was too superficial and self-involved (this fool Charsky: she, I know, wanted to, but couldn't stop him).
"Yeah, except for her interest in the house, except for her toilet, and apart from her broderie anglaise, she has no serious interests.
No interest in my business, no household, no men, no music in which she's pretty strong, no reading.
She's not doing anything, and she's perfectly satisfied."
Levin condemned it in the soul and did not realize yet that she was preparing for the period of activity that should have come upon her when she was at the same time the husband's wife, the housewife, would bear, feed, and raise her children.
He did not think that she knew it with her gut and, preparing for this terrible work, did not blame herself for the minutes of carelessness and happiness of love she now enjoyed, making fun of her future nest.
XVI
When Levin came upstairs, his wife sat at a new silver samurai behind a new tea machine and, after putting old Agatha Mikhaylovna with a cup of tea at the small table, she read a letter from Dolly, with whom they were in regular and frequent correspondence.
'You see, your lady put me down, told me to sit with her,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna, smiling friendlyly at Kitty.
In these words, Agatha Mikhaylovna Levin read the drama that had recently taken place between Agatha Mikhaylovna and Kitty.
He saw that, despite all the grief caused by Agatha Mikhaylovna's new mistress, who took away her reign, Kitty still defeated her and forced her to love her.
'I have read your letter,' said Kitty, giving him an illiterate letter. 'It's from that woman, I think, your brother...' she said. 'I didn't read it.
And this is from mine and from Dolly.
Imagine!
Dolly took Sarmatsky to Grish and Tanya's children's ball; Tanya was a Marquis.
But Levin did not listen to her: and when he was red, he took a letter from Mary Nikolaevna, the former mistress of his brother Nikolai, and read it.
It was the second letter from Maria Nikolaevna.
In her first letter, Maria Nikolaevna wrote that her brother had driven her away without guilt, and with touching naïveness added that although she was again in poverty, she did not ask for anything, wanted nothing but what killed her thought that Nikolai Dmitrievich would go missing without her because of her lack of health, and asked her brother to keep an eye on him.
Now she wrote another one.
She found Nikolai Dmitrijić, again joined him in Moscow, and went with him to the city of Paris, where he received a position in the service.
But that he had a fight with the boss and went back to Moscow, but the dear one was so sick that he could hardly get up,' she wrote."Everybody remembers you, and there's no more money."
'Read, Dolly writes about you,' began Kitty with a smile, but suddenly she stopped to notice the changed look on her husband's face.
'What are you?
What is it?
'She writes to me that Nikolai, brother, is dying.
I'm going.
Kitty's face suddenly changed.
Thinking about Tana Marquis, about Dolly, it's all gone.
'When will you go?' 'She said.'
'Tomorrow.
'And I'm with you, may I? 'She said.'
'Kiti!
Well, what is it? 'He said with reproach.'
'As what? &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 'Why shouldn't I go?'
I won't bother you.
'I am going because my brother is dying,' said Levin. 'What are you...'
'For what?
For the same thing you're doing.
"And at this important moment for me, she only thinks she'll be bored alone," Levin thought. And that excuse in the case made him so angry.
'It is impossible,' he said strictly.
Agatha Mikhaylovna, when she saw it coming into a fight, quietly put the cup down and came out.
Kitty didn't even notice her.
The tone to which her husband had said the last words had insulted her, especially because he apparently did not believe what she had said.
'And I tell you that if you go and I go with you, I will certainly go,' she said in haste and anger. 'Why is it impossible?'
Why do you say it's impossible?
'Cause God knows where, where the roads are, the hotels.
You will embarrass me,' said Levin, trying to be cold-blooded.
'Nothing.'
I don't need anything. Wherever you can, there's me...
'Well, there's one thing about that woman that you can't get close to.'
'I don't know anything, and I don't want to know who's there or what.
I know my husband's brother is dying and my husband is going to see him, and I'm going with my husband to...
'Kiti! Don't be angry.
But think about it, it's so important that it hurts me to think that you're mixing a feeling of weakness, of not wanting to be alone.
Well, you're gonna be bored by yourself, so go to Moscow.
'Here, you always attribute to me evil, sneaky thoughts,' she cried with tears of insult and anger. 'I am nothing, I am not weak, I am nothing...'
I feel like it's my duty to be with my husband when he's in trouble, but you want to hurt me on purpose, and you don't want to understand...
To be some kind of slave! 'Screamed Levin, climbing up and no longer able to hold back his anger.' But the second he did, he felt like he was beating himself.
'So why did you marry?'
I'd be free.
Why if you're sorry? 'She spoke, jumped up, and ran into the living room.'
When he came for her, she was crying.
He began to talk, wanting to find words that could not convince her, but only calm her down.
But she wouldn't listen to him, and she wouldn't agree to anything.
He leaned over to her and took her resisting hand. He kissed her hand, kissed her hair, kissed her hand again, and she kept quiet.
But when he took it by both hands, he said, "Kiti!" 'She suddenly came to her senses, cried, and reconciled herself.'
It was decided to go together tomorrow.
Levin told his wife that he believed that she wanted to go only to be useful, agreed that Maria Nikolaevna's presence in front of her brother was not indecent; but in the deep part of his soul he was displeased with her and himself.
He was displeased with her for not being able to let him go when he needed it (and how strange it was for him to think that he, so recently not dared to believe that she could love him, now felt unhappy that she loved him too much!) and displeased with himself for failing to stand up to character.
Even more deeply, he disagreed that she did not care about the woman who was with her brother, and he thought with horror of all possible clashes.
One thing is that his wife, Kitty, would be in the same room as a girl, making him freak out with disgust and horror.
XVII
The hotel of the city of Reuben, which was home to Nikolai Levin, was one of those hotels in the country, which is based on new and improved models, with the best intentions of purity, comfort, and even elegance, but which, according to the public visiting them, become, with extraordinary speed, dirty cobbles with a claim for modern improvements, making this claim even worse than the old, just dirty hotels.
This hotel has already come into this state; and the soldier in the dirty coat, smoking the papyroska at the door that was supposed to represent the doorman, and the irony, piercing, dark and unpleasant stairwell, and the loose sex in the filthy frack, and the common room with the dusty wax bouquet of flowers that adorned the table, and the dirt, dust and mud everywhere, together with some new modern railway self-satisfied concern at the hotel, have made the hardest impression on the Levins after their young lives, especially that the false impression produced by the hotel has never been reconciled with what was expected of them.
As always, it turned out that after the question of what price they wanted, there was no good number: one good number was occupied by the railway auditor, the other by a lawyer from Moscow, and the third by Princess Astafiev of the village.
There was one dirty number left next to which they said they'd be talking to the other by tonight.
Aggressing his wife for having fulfilled what he was waiting for, it was that at the time of his arrival, when his heart was moved by the thought that he was with his brother, that he had to take care of her, instead of running immediately to his brother, Levin introduced his wife into his number.
'Go, go!' she said with a shy, guilty look at him.
He came out of the door silently and immediately ran into Maria Nikolaevna, who learned of his arrival and did not dare enter him.
She was exactly the same as he saw her in Moscow: the same woolly dress and bare hands and neck, and the same good-natured dumb face, a bit full, a raspberry face.
'Well, what?
How's he doing? What?
'Very bad.
They don't get up.
They were all waiting for you.
They're... you're... with your wife.
Levin did not understand at the first minute what embarrassed her, but she immediately explained it to him.
'I will go, I will go to the kitchen,' she said. 'They will be pleased.'
They have heard, and they are known and remembered abroad.
Levin realized that she understood his wife, and did not know what to say.
'Come on, let's go! 'He said.'
But he just moved, his number door opened, and Kitty looked out.
Levin blushed with shame, and with shame upon his wife, who put herself and him into this plight; but Mary Nikolaevna blushed even more.
She clenched and blushed to tears and grabbed the ends of the handkerchief with both hands, folded them with red fingers, without knowing what to say or what to do.
Levin's first moment saw the expression of greedy curiosity in the look that Kitty looked at that terrible woman, which she did not understand; but it lasted only one moment.
'Well, what is it?'
What is he? 'She turned to her husband and then to her.'
'You can't talk in the hallway! 'Said Levin, looking back at the gentleman, who, with his feet displeased, was walking along the hallway in his case.'
'Come in, then,' said Kitty, turning to Maria Nikolaevna, who was recovering; but when she noticed the frightened face of her husband, 'or go, come and come after me,' she said, and returned to the numbering.
Levin went to his brother.
He never expected what he saw and felt at his brother's.
He expected to find the same state of self - deception that he had heard so often occurred at the quacks and that struck him so hard during his brother's autumn arrival.
He expected to find physical signs of nearing death more certain, greater weakness, more thinning, but still almost the same situation.
He expected to experience the same feeling of pity for the loss of his beloved brother and the horror he had experienced at the time, but only to a greater extent. And he prepared himself for it; but he found a very different thing.
In a filthy little number, spit on painted walls, behind whose thin partition there was a chatter, in a suffocated scent of air, there was a blanketed body on the bed that was removed from the wall.
One hand of this body was above the blanket, and a giant hand, like a burglary, was attached to a thin and straight from the beginning to the middle of a long chick.
The head was lying side by side on the pillow.
Levin was seen with sweaty rare hair on his temples and a tight, clear forehead.
"It can't be that scary body was Nikolai's brother," Levin thought.
But he came closer, saw his face, and doubt was no longer possible.
Despite an awful change of face, Levin should have looked up at these living, rising up into his eyes, and noticed a slight movement of his mouth under a sticky mustache to understand the terrible truth that this dead body was a living brother.
The shiny eyes looked hard and down at the brother who came in. At once, this view established a living relationship between the living.
Levin immediately felt a disheartened look at him and remorse for his happiness.
When Constantin took his hand, Nikolai smiled.
The smile was weak, slightly visible, and despite the smile, the sharp expression of the eyes did not change.
'You didn't expect me to be like this,' he barely said.
'Yes... no,' said Levin, confused in his words. 'How did you not let me know before, that is, during my wedding?'
I've been looking everywhere.
You should have told him not to keep quiet, and he didn't know what to say, especially since his brother didn't answer anything, but he watched without letting his eyes down, and he obviously understood the meaning of every word.
Levin told his brother that his wife had come with him.
Nikolai expressed his pleasure but said he was afraid to scare her with his position.
There's been a silence.
Suddenly Nikolai moved and started to say something.
Levin was waiting for something particularly significant and important in his face, but Nikolai spoke about his health.
He accused the doctor, regretted that there was no Moscow famous doctor, and Levin realized that he was still hoping.
After choosing the first minute of silence, Levin stood up, wanting to get rid of a painful feeling for a moment, and said that he would bring his wife.
'Well, all right, and I'm telling you to clean it up here.
It's dirty and smelly in here, I think.
Masha! Clean it up here,' said the sick man with difficulty. 'If you put it away, go away,' he added, looking at his brother in question.
Levin didn't answer anything.
When he entered the hallway, he stopped.
He said he would bring his wife, but now that he was aware of the feeling he had felt, he decided that, on the contrary, he would try to persuade her not to go to a sick person.
"What's she torturing like me for?" 'He thought.'
'Well, what?
How? 'with a frightened face asked Kitty.
'Oh, that's awful, awful!
Why are you here? 'Said Levin.'
Kitty remained silent for a few seconds, shy and sorry for her husband; then she came and took his elbow with both hands.
'Kostya! Take me to him, it'll be easier for the two of us.
You just take me down, get me down, please, and go away,' she said. 'You understand that it is harder for me to see you and not see him.
There I may be useful to you and to him.
Please, let me! 'She begged her husband, as if the happiness of her life depended on it.'
Levin had to agree, and after recovering and completely forgetting Mary Nikolaevna, he went to see his brother again with Kitty.
Easy to walk in and look at her husband and show him a brave and sympathetic face, she entered the sick man's room and turned her back and closed the door quietly.
With unheard steps, she quickly approached the sick man &apos; s bed and walked in such a way that he did not need to turn his head, immediately took into her fresh young hand his huge arm &apos; s oatmeal, and shook her and with the woman, who alone was a woman, not insulted and empathetic, silently speaking to him.
'We met, but we didn't know each other in Soden,' she said. 'You didn't think I'd be your sister.
'You wouldn't recognize me? 'He said with a smile at her entrance.'
'No, I would have found out.
How well you did, what you let us know!
There hasn't been a day for Kostya not to think of you and worry about you.
But the recovery of the patient did not last long.
She also did not stop talking about how his face was once again exposed to the harsh, downright expression of envy of the dying to the living.
'I'm afraid you're not very well here,' she said, turning away from his close gaze and looking around the room. 'We'll have to ask the owner of the other room,' she said to her husband, 'and then we'll get closer.
XVIII
Levin could not look at his brother calmly, nor could he be natural and calm in his presence.
When he entered the patient, his eyes and attention became unconscious, and he neither saw nor distinguished the details of his brother's situation.
He heard a terrible smell, saw dirt, a mess and a painful situation and a groaning, and felt that it could not be helped.
It didn't occur to him to think about all the details of the patient's condition, to think about how it was lying there under the blanket, that body, like bent around, had these rotten tibia, stakes, back, and if there was any better way to put them down, to do something that wasn't better, but less bad.
He got cold on his back when he started thinking about all these details.
He was convinced that nothing could be done either to prolong life or to alleviate suffering. But the realization that he acknowledged all help was impossible, felt sick and annoyed him.
Therefore Levin was even heavier.
Being in the patient's room was painful for him, not being worse.
And under various pretexts, he went out and entered again, unable to be alone.
But Kitty thought, felt, and acted very differently.
When she saw the patient, she felt sorry for him. And the pity in her woman's soul did not produce the same sense of horror and vileness she had in her husband, but the need to act, to learn all the details of his condition, and to help them.
And since she had no doubt that she had to help him, she had no doubt that it was possible to do so, and immediately she took action.
The very details that her husband was horrified about immediately drew her attention. She sent for the doctor, sent her to the pharmacy, forced the girl who came with her and Maria Nikolaevna to get revenge, wash the dust, wash, wash, wash, wash, put something under the blanket.
Something she ordered was served and taken out of the patient's room.
She herself went to her number several times, disregarding the gentlemen she met, and she drew and brought sheets, pillowcases, towels, shirts.
The footman who served lunch in the general hall to the engineers came several times with an angry face to her call and couldn't help but carry out her orders, as she gave them with such tender urgency that there was no way to leave her.
Levin did not approve of all this: he did not believe that there would be any benefit to the patient.
Most of all, he was afraid that the patient would not get angry.
But the patient, even though he seemed indifferent to it, was not angry, but ashamed, even as if he were interested in what she was doing about him.
When he returned from the doctor to whom Kitty had sent him, Levin opened the door and caught the patient the minute Kitty changed his underwear.
The long white staves of the back, with huge outstanding scapulas and sticking ribs and vertebrae, were exposed, and Maria Nikolaevna and the footman were confused in the sleeve of the shirt and unable to point a long, hanging hand into it.
Kitty, who had rushed to close the door behind Levin, did not look that way; but the sick man groaned, and she quickly went to him.
'Hurry,' she said.
'Don't go,' said the patient angryly, 'I myself...'
'What do you say? 'Required Mary Nikolaevna.
But Kitty heard and realized that he felt ashamed and uncomfortable about being naked in front of her.
'I don't look, I don't look! 'She said, adjusting her hand.' 'Maria Nikolaevna, and you will come from the other side, correct,' she added.
'Come, please, in my little bag I have a snatch,' she turned to her husband, 'you know, in the side pocket, please bring it and as long as it's all cleaned up here.
When Levin returned with a stick, he found a sick man already laid down, and everything around him was completely altered.
The heavy smell was replaced by the smell of vinegar with perfume, which was sprayed in the tube with lips and brown cheeks.
The dust was nowhere to be seen, there was a carpet under the bed. There were neat glasses on the table, Countess and the proper underwear and the work of Broderie anglaise Kitty.
On the other table, by the bed of the sick man, there were drinks, candles, and powders.
The sick man himself, washed and scrubbed, lay on clean sheets, on raised pillows, in a clean shirt with a white collar about an unnaturally thin neck and with a new expression of hope, keeping an eye on Kitty.
The doctor brought by Levin and found at the club was not the one who treated Nikolai Levin and whom he was displeased with.
The new doctor pulled out the tube and listened to the patient, shook his head, prescribed the medicine, and explained in particular how to take the medicine first, then -- what to do with the diet.
He advised eggs of raw or slightly welded and celery water with steam milk of known temperature.
When the doctor left, the patient said something to his brother; but Levin heard only the last words: "Your Katja", but the look with which he looked at her, Levin realized that he praised her.
He called Katya, too, as he called her.
'I am much better,' he said. 'I would have recovered with you a long time ago.
That's so good! 'He took her hand and pulled it to his lips, but, as if afraid it would be unpleasant for her, thought, released her, and only the groin--the dil of her.'
Kitty took that hand with both hands and shook it.
'Now put me on the left side and go to sleep,' he said.
No one heard what he said, one Kitty understood.
She understood because she kept following the thought of what he needed.
'On the other side,' she said to her husband, 'he always sleeps on the other side.
Put him down, it's unpleasant to call the servants. I can't.
Can't you? 'She turned to Maria Nikolaevna.'
'I'm afraid,' said Maria Nikolaevna.
As scary as Levin was to hold this scary body with his hands, to take up those places under the blanket he did not want to know about, but by giving in to his wife's influence Levin made his determined face as his wife knew, and by letting his hands in, he took up, but despite his strength was struck by the strange weight of these exhausted members.
While he was turning it around, feeling his neck hugged by a huge, thin hand, Kitty quickly, unheard, turned the pillow, knocked it over, and fixed the head of the sick man and his rare hair, stuck again on the temple.
The sick man held his brother's hand in his hand.
Levin felt that he wanted to do something with his hand and pulled it somewhere. Levin gave himself up, calming down.
Yeah, he pulled her to his mouth and kissed her.
Levin was shaken by the tears and, unable to speak, left the room.
XIX
"Hidden from the wise, and opened up to the children and the unreasonable." 'That's what Levin thought of his wife, talking to her this evening.
Levin did not think of the Evangel saying because he thought he was wise. He didn't think he was wise, but he couldn't help but know that he was smarter than his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna, and he couldn't help but know that when he thought of death, he thought with all the strength of his soul.
He also knew that many men's big minds, whose thoughts he had read about it, thought about it and did not know one hundred things his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna knew about it.
As different as the two women were, Agatha Mikhaylovna and Katja, as her brother Nikolai called her, and as Levin was now particularly pleased to call her, they were quite similar.
Both undoubtedly knew what life was and what death was, and even though they could not answer and understand even the questions that were presented to Levin, both did not doubt the meaning of this phenomenon and were completely equal, not just among themselves, but shared this view with millions of people, looking at it.
The proof that they knew firmly what death was was was that they knew, without doubt, for no second, how to deal with the dying, and they were not afraid of them.
Levin and others, though they could say much about death, clearly did not know because they feared death and were determined not to know what to do when people died.
If Levin had been alone with his brother Nikolai now, he would have looked awful at him and waited even more horribly, and would have done nothing else.
Not only did he not know what to say, how to watch how to walk.
It did not seem offensive to him to speak of an outsider; it was not possible to speak of death, nor of a dark one.
You can't keep quiet, either. "Look -- he's gonna think I'm studying it, I'm afraid; not looking -- he's gonna think what I'm thinking about.
Walking on chicks, he's gonna be displeased; on his whole leg, he's ashamed."
Kitty obviously didn't think and had no time to think of herself; she thought of him because she knew something, and everything went well.
She also spoke of herself, and of her wedding, and smiled, and felt pity, and caressed him, and spoke of the cases of recovery, and all things went well; so she knew.
The proof that her and Agatha Mikhaylovna's activities were not instinctive, animal, unreasonable, was that, apart from physical care, relief, and Agatha Mikhaylovna and Kitty demanded something more important for a dying person than physical care, and something that had nothing to do with physical conditions.
Agatha Mihailovna, speaking of the dead old man, said, "Well, thank God, you were involved, you were united, God let everyone die like this." In the same way, apart from all the care for the underwear, the bed, the drink, on the first day she was able to convince the patient of the need to become involved.
When Levin returned from the patient overnight to his two numerals, he sat down with his head down, not knowing what to do.
Not to mention eating, sleeping, thinking about what they would do, he couldn't even talk to his wife; he was ashamed.
Kitty, on the other hand, was more active than ordinary. It was even more lively than ordinary.
She told me to bring dinner, she took out her own things, she helped make the beds, and she didn't forget to fill them with Persian powder.
It had the excitement and the speed of the considerations that men had before fighting, fighting, in the dangerous and decisive moments of life, the moments when a man once for all showed his price and that everything that had passed was not a gift, but a preparation for those minutes.
The whole case was in dispute with her, and she wasn't 12 yet, as all the things were taken cleanly, neatly, somehow, in a way that the number looked like a house, like her rooms: the beds of the bed, the brushes, the crests, the mirrors out, the napkins of the post.
Levin found it inexcusable to eat, to sleep, to speak even now, and felt that every move he made was indecent.
She scrubbed the brushes, but she did it all in such a way that there was nothing offensive about it.
There was, however, nothing they could do, and they couldn't sleep for a long time, and they didn't even go to bed for a long time.
'I am very glad that I persuaded him to gather tomorrow,' she said, sitting in a shirt in front of her folding mirror and combing soft, fragrant hairs with a frequent comb. 'I've never seen this before, but I know my mother told me that there are prayers for healing.
'Do you really think he can recover?' 'Then Levin said, looking at the permanently closed, as soon as she had drawn the crest forward, a narrow row backwards her round head.
'I asked the doctor: he said that he could not live for more than three days.
But how can they know?
I'm really glad I talked him into it,' she said, touching her husband because of her hair. 'It can all be,' she added with the special, somewhat clever expression that she always had on her face when she spoke of religion.
After talking about religion, when they were still a bride and groom, neither he nor she ever started talking about it, but she performed her church rituals, prayer always with the same calm mind that it was necessary.
Despite his belief otherwise, she was firmly convinced that he was as much and even better a Christian as she was, and that all he was saying about it was one of his funny men's tricks, like what he was saying about broderie anglaise: like good people stomping holes and she deliberately taking them out, etc.
'Yes, this woman, Marya Nikolaevna, did not know how to arrange all this,' said Levin. 'And... I must confess that I am very, very glad that you have come.' You're so clean that...' He took her hand and didn't kiss her (kiss her hand in this closeness of death) but only shook her with a guilty expression, looking at her bright eyes.
'It would have been so painful for you alone,' she said, and when she had raised her hands high, who had covered her blushing cheeks with pleasure, she turned around on the back of her head and stitched them up. 'No,' she continued,' she did not know...
I learned a lot in Soden, to be happy.
'Has there been a disease like that?'
'Worst. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It is worse. &gt;&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It is worse. &gt;&lt;i&gt;/i&gt;It is worse. &gt;&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt;It is worse. &gt;&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt;It is worse.
'It is a terrible thing for me that I cannot help not seeing him as he was young...'
You wouldn't believe what a lovely young man he was, but I didn't understand him then.
'I really, really do.'
I feel that we would be friends with him,' she said, and feared for what she had said, looked back at her husband, and tears came to her eyes.
'Yes, you would,' he said, sad. 'This is exactly one of the people they say they are not for this world.
'But we have many days to go to bed,' said Kitty, looking at her tiny watch.
XX
DEATH
The other day, the patient was brought in and gathered.
During the ceremony, Nikolai Levin prayed warmly.
In his great eyes, leaning toward the image placed on a napkin, covered with a coloured napkin table, he expressed such a passionate prayer and hope that Levin was awful to look at it.
Levin knew that this passionate prayer and hope would only make it even harder for him to separate from the life he loved so much.
Levin knew his brother and the course of his thoughts; he knew that his disbelief had occurred not because it was easier for him to live without faith, but because step by step the modern-scientific explanations of the phenomena of the world had replaced faith, and therefore he knew that his current return had not been lawful, accomplished by the same thought, but only temporary, self-interested, with the mad hope of healing.
Levin also knew that Kitty had reinforced that hope with further accounts of the extraordinary healings she had heard.
Levin knew all this, and he was painfully hurt to look at this beggar, full of hope, and this wretched brush of hand, struggling to lift up and put the cross sign on the tight, tight forehead, on these excruciating shoulders and grinning empty breasts, which could no longer carry into themselves the life that the patient had asked for.
During the mystery, Levin prayed and did what he, a disbeliever, had done a thousand times.
He said, "Do, if you exist, that this man may be healed, and you will save him and me."
After the anointed, the patient suddenly felt much better.
He never coughed for an hour, smiled, kissed Kitty's hand, with tears because of her, and said that he was well, not hurt anywhere, and that he felt appetite and strength.
He even went up when he got his soup and asked for another cutlet.
No matter how hopeless he was, as clearly as it was when he looked at him, that he could not recover, Levin and Kitty were in the same happy and shy hour, as if to be mistaken, arousing.
'Better. 'Yes, much. 'Awesome. 'No wonder.' 'It is better, though,' they whispered, smiling at each other.
It was short-term blasphemous.
The patient fell asleep calmly, but after half an hour the cough woke him up. And suddenly all hope was lost in the people around him and in him himself.
The reality of suffering, no doubt, even without memories of previous hopes, destroyed them in Levin and Kitty and in the sickest.
Without even remembering what he believed half an hour ago, as if he were ashamed and reminded of it, he demanded that he be given iodine for inhalation in a stone covered with a paper with punctured holes.
Levin gave him the jar, and the same look of hope with which he met was now rushing toward his brother, demanding from him confirmation of the doctor's words that the inhalation of iodine produced miracles.
'What, Kathy isn't here? 'He snorted, looking back when Levin reluctantly confirmed the doctor's words. 'No, you can say that...'
I made this comedy for her.
She's so sweet, but you and I can't fool ourselves.
That's what I believe,' he said, and when he squeezed the knuckle with his bony hand, he began to breathe over it.
At 8 p.m. Levin had tea with his wife in her number when Maria Nikolaevna ran to them, suffocating. She was pale and her lips shivered.
'Death! 'She whispered.' 'I'm afraid he's about to die.
Both ran to him.
He sat up, reclining on his hand, on the bed, bent his long back, and lowered his head.
'How do you feel? 'I asked Levin in whisper after silence.'
'I feel like I'm leaving,' said Nikolai with extreme certainty.
He did not lift his head, but only pointed his eyes up without reaching his brother's face. 'Katha, go away!' he said again.
Levin jumped up and whispered her out.
'I am going,' he said again.
'Why do you think? 'Said Levin to say something.'
'Because I am going away,' he repeated as if he had loved that expression. 'The end.'
Maria Nikolaevna approached him.
'You'd lie down, you'd feel better,' she said.
'I will lie still soon,' he said, 'dead," he said, laughingly, angry. 'Well, put it down if you like.
Levin put his brother on his back, sat beside him, and, not breathing, looked at his face.
The dying man lay, closed his eyes, but his forehead was occasionally moved by muscles like a man who had deep and intense thoughts.
Levin thought with him that this was happening now in him, but despite all his efforts to walk with him, he saw by the expression of this calm, rigid face and the play of the muscle over his eyebrow that it was clear to the dying man that it was still dark for Levin.
'Yes, yes, so,' said the dying man slowly in position. 'Wait. 'He kept quiet again. 'That's it!' he suddenly sedativeed out, as if everything had been settled for him. 'Oh, my God! 'He spoke and sighed heavily.'
Maria Nikolaevna felt his legs.
'They are getting cold,' she whispered. For a long, long time, Levin saw the patient lying still.
But he was still alive and often sighed.
Levin is tired of the stress of his mind. He felt that, despite the stress of his mind, he could not understand what had happened.
He felt that he was long behind the dying man. He could no longer think about the very issue of death, but he was not willing to think about what he would now have to do: close his eyes, dress, order a coffin.
And, strangely, he felt completely cold and felt no grief, no loss, no less pity for his brother.
If he had feelings for his brother now, he'd rather be jealous of the knowledge that the dying man now has, but he can't have.
He's been sitting on him like this for a long time, waiting for the end. But the end didn't come.
The door opened, and Kitty showed up.
Levin stood up to stop her.
But while he was up, he heard the dead man's movement.
'Don't go,' said Nikolai, and extended his hand.
Levin delivered his hand to him, and angryly waved to his wife to leave.
With the dead man's hand in his hand, he sat for half an hour, an hour, another hour.
He wasn't thinking about dying anymore.
He was thinking about what Kitty was doing, who lived in the next number, whether the doctor had his own house.
He wanted to eat and sleep.
He carefully sprained his hand and felt his legs.
The legs were cold, but the patient was breathing.
Levin wanted to go out on the chicks again, but the sick man moved again and said, "Don't go away. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
It dawned; the condition of the patient was the same.
Levin slowly expounded his hand, not looking at the dying one, and went to his side and fell asleep.
When he woke up, instead of hearing of the death of the brother he was waiting for, he learned that the patient had returned to his former state.
He began to sit down again, to cough, to eat again, to speak, and to stop talking about death again, to express hope for recovery again, and to become more annoying and darker than ever before.
No one, no brother, no Kitty, could calm him down.
He was angry and talking to everyone about trouble, blaming everyone for his suffering and demanding that he be brought in by a famous doctor from Moscow.
To all the questions he had been asked about how he felt, he answered in the same way with the expression of anger and reproach:
'I suffer awful, insufferable! The patient was suffering more and more, especially from beds that could not be cured, and became more and more angry at the surrounding--things, blaming them for everything and especially for the fact that he had not been brought in by a doctor from Moscow.
Kitty did her best to help him, to calm him; but it was all in vain, and Levin saw that she herself, both physically and morally, was exhausted, even though she did not confess it.
The sense of death caused by all his goodbyes to life the night he called his brother was destroyed.
Everyone knew that he was bound to die soon, that he was half dead already.
All of them only wanted him to die as soon as possible, and all of them, hiding it, gave him medicine from a stick, searched for medicine, doctors, and lied to him, to themselves and to each other.
It was all a lie, a filthy, insulting and sacrilege lie. Both this lie and his personality, and because he loved the dying one most, Levin felt particularly painful.
Levin, long thought of reconciling his brothers before he died, wrote to Brother Sergei Ivanovich and, having received his reply, read the letter to the sick man.
Koznyshev wrote that he could not come himself, but in touching terms asked for his brother's forgiveness.
The patient didn't say anything.
'What shall I write to him? 'I asked Levin.' 'I hope you're not mad at him?
'No, not at all!' said Nikolai with regret. 'Write him to send a doctor to me.
Three more days passed, and the patient was still in the same situation.
The desire of his death was now felt by all who had seen him: both the footmen of the hotel, and her master, and all the guests, and the doctor, and Mary of Nikolaevna, and Levin, and Kitty.
Only one patient did not express that feeling but, on the contrary, was angry that the doctor had not been brought in and continued to take medication and talk about life.
Only in rare moments, when opium made him forget for a moment of constant suffering, did he sometimes say in half-sleep what was stronger than everyone else in his soul: "Oh, at least one end!" Or, "When it's over!"
As suffering grew evenly, they did their work and prepared it for death.
There was no position in which he suffered, there was no moment in which he forgot, there was no place, no part of his body that did not suffer, nor did they torment him.
Even the memories, the impressions, the thoughts of this body have already caused the same disgust in him as the body itself.
The view of other people, their speeches, their own memories -- all of this was painful for him.
Those around them felt this, and unconsciously allowed themselves no free movement, no conversation, no expression of their desires.
His whole life was in the same sense of suffering and desire to get rid of him.
Apparently, there was a coup that was supposed to make him see death as satisfying his desires, as happiness.
In the past, each individual desire caused by suffering or deprivation, such as hunger, fatigue, thirst, was satisfied with the departure of the body, which gave pleasure; but now the deprivation and suffering were not satisfied, and the attempt to satisfaction caused a new suffering.
So all the desires came together in one thing -- the desire to get rid of all the suffering and their source, their bodies.
But to express this desire for liberation, he did not have words, so he did not speak of it, and by habit he required the satisfaction of desires that could no longer be fulfilled.
"Put me on the other side," he said and immediately afterwards demanded that he be placed as before.
"Give me the broth.
Take the broth away.
Tell me something you're not saying."
And as soon as they started talking, he closed his eyes and expressed fatigue, indifference, and disgust.
On the tenth day of her arrival in the city of Kitty, she became ill.
She had a headache, vomiting, and she couldn't get out of bed all morning.
The doctor explained that the disease was caused by fatigue, anxiety, and ordered her to be calm.
After lunch, however, Kitty got up and went to work with a sick person, as always.
He looked hard at her when she came in, and smiled contemptiblely when she said she was sick.
On that day, he kept sniffing and groaning.
'How do you feel?' 'She asked him.'
'Worst,' he barely said. 'It hurts!
'Where does it hurt?
'Everywhere.
'This is the end, look,' said Maria Nikolaevna, although whispering, but so that the sick, very sensitive, as Levin noticed, must have heard her.
Levin stitched at her and looked back at the patient.
Nikolai heard; but those words did not impress him. The look of his eyes was still constricted and tense.
'What do you think?' 'And Levin asked her when she had married him into the hallway.'
'He began to take a look at himself,' said Maria Nikolaevna.
'How do I pick it up?'
'That's it,' she said, pulling the folds of her woolly dress.
Indeed, he noticed that the sick man had been holding on to himself all day, as if he wanted to hold on to something.
Maria Nikolaevna's prediction was correct.
The sick man was no longer able to raise his hands by night, but to look before himself without changing the carefully focused expression of his eyes.
Even when a brother or Kitty leaned over him, so that he could see them, he looked at them the same way.
Kitty sent for the priest to read the waste house.
While the priest was reading the waste house, the dying man showed no signs of life; his eyes were closed.
Levin, Kitty and Maria Nikolaevna were standing by the bed.
Prayer had not yet been honored by the priest, as the dying man reached out, sighed, and opened his eyes.
At the end of the prayer, the priest attached a cross to the cold forehead, then slowly wrapped it into the epetrahill and, remaining silent for two minutes, touched a cold and bloodless giant hand.
'It is over,' said the priest, and wanted to stand back; but suddenly the dead man's moustache was moving, and clearly in silence heard from the depth of his chest a certain sharp sound:
'Not exactly...'
Soon.
And a minute later, the face became bright, there was a smile under the moustache, and the women gathered were anxious to clean up the dead man.
The sight of his brother and the proximity of his death renewed in Levin's soul the sense of horror over his indistinctness and together with the proximity and inevitability of his death, which reached him on the autumn evening when his brother came to him.
The feeling was now even stronger than before; even less than before, he felt capable of understanding the meaning of death, and it was even worse for him to see its inevitability; but now, thanks to his wife's closeness, the feeling did not lead him to despair: despite his death, he felt the need to live and love.
He felt that love had saved him from despair and that that love, under the threat of despair, had become even stronger and cleaner.
Before he could see it, one secret of death that remained unsolved came to pass, as another, equally unsolved, that caused love and life.
The doctor confirmed his suspicions about Kitty.
Her illness was pregnancy.
XXI
From the moment he realized from his explanations with Betsy and with Stepan Arkadjić that he had only been required to leave his wife alone, without bothering her with her presence, and that his wife herself wanted to do so, he felt so lost that he could not solve anything on his own, did not know what he wanted now, and gave himself in the hands of those who were so happy to do his business to all of them.
It was only when Anna had already left his house that a British woman sent him to ask him if she should have lunch with him, or separately, that he understood his position clearly for the first time and was terrified of him.
The hardest thing about this situation was that he couldn't connect and reconcile his past with what was now.
Not since he lived happily with his wife, it was embarrassing to him, but the transition from that who passed away to the knowledge of his wife's infidelity he had suffered; it was a difficult condition, but it was understandable to him.
If the wife had left him when she had declared her infidelity, he would have been sad and unhappy, but he would not have been in the inhospitable position for himself as he now felt.
He could no longer reconcile his recent forgiveness, his condescension, his love for a sick wife and another's child with what was now, that, as a reward for all of this, he now became one, disgraced, mocked, unsatisfied, and despised by all.
The first two days after his wife's departure, Alexandrovich accepted the applicants, the ruler of the affairs, travelled to the committee and went out for lunch in the dining room, as usual.
Ignoring what he's doing, he worked hard on his soul these two days just to look calm and even indifferent.
In response to questions about how to handle Anna Arkadievna's belongings and rooms, he made the greatest effort to be seen as a man for whom the event had not been unexpected and had nothing to do with ordinary events, and he had achieved his goal: no one could have noticed signs of despair.
But on the second day after he left, when Corney billed him from a fashion store that Anna forgot to pay, and reported that the commander himself was here, he told him to call the boss.
'Excuse me, Your Excellency, that I dare to disturb you.
But if you would like to contact her Excellency, would you be pleased to provide their address?
Alexey Alexandrovich wondered how the orderman seemed, and suddenly, turning around, he sat down at the table.
Put his head on his hands, he sat in that position for a long time, tried to talk a few times and stopped.
Having understood the feelings of the barn, Corney asked the orderman to come another time.
When he was alone again, he realized that he could no longer stand the role of firmness and tranquillity.
He told me to postpone the waiting carriage, he didn't tell anyone to take it, and he didn't come out for lunch.
He felt that he could not stand the common assault of contempt and violence that he had clearly seen on the face of both that commander and Cornea and all those whom he had met on those two days.
He felt that he could not turn people's hatred away, because it did not occur because he was a fool (then he could try to be better), but because he was ashamed and disgustingly unhappy.
He knew what it was, because his heart was broken, they would be ruthless to him.
He felt that people would destroy him, as dogs would suffocate a punctured, pain - squealing dog.
He knew that the only escape from humans was to hide his wounds from them, and he unconsciously tried to do so for two days, but now he felt unable to continue this unequal struggle.
His despair was heightened by the realization that he was completely alone with his grief.
Not only did he not have a single person in Petersburg who could express everything he felt, who felt sorry for him not as a senior official, not as a member of society, but simply as a suffering person; nor did he have such a person anywhere.
Alexei Alexandrovich grew up an orphan.
There were two brothers.
They didn't remember their father, their mother died when he was ten years old.
It was a small condition.
Uncle Karenin, an important official and once a favourite of the late emperor, raised them.
After completing his courses in gymnasium and university with medals, Alexi Alexandrovich, with the help of his uncle, immediately entered a visible service road and, from that time on, became extremely ambitious.
Neither at the gymnasium, nor at the university, nor after he was in the service of Alexei Alexandrovich had a friendly relationship with anyone.
His brother was the closest person to him, but he served under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, always living abroad, where he died shortly after he married Alexei Alexandrovich.
During his governorship, Aunt Anna, a wealthy Parish lady, brought down a young man, but a young governor with her niece, and put him in a position that he should have either spoken or left the city.
Alexei Alexandrovich hesitated for a long time.
There were just as many arguments for that move as there was against it, and there was no strong reason for him to change his rule: to abstain in doubt; but Aunt Anna told him through a friend that he had already compromised the girl and that it was a duty of honour for him to propose.
He proposed and gave the bride and wife all the sense he could.
The affection he had for Anna ruled out in his heart the last needs of a heartfelt relationship with people. And now, of all his acquaintances, he didn't have anyone close to him.
There were many things called connections; but there was no friendship.
Alexey Alexandrovich had many people he could invite to his luncheon, ask to participate in a case of interest to him, a protection to some seeker with whom he could discuss openly the actions of others and of the highest government; however, attitudes towards these individuals were confined to one well-defined custom and habit that could not be taken out of.
There was a university comrade with whom he was drawn after and with whom he could speak about personal grief; but that fellow was the trustee in the long-distance school district.
Of those who were in Petersburg, the head of the office and the doctor were the closest and most likely.
Michael Vasiljevic Sluddin, the ruler of affairs, was a simple, intelligent, kind, and moral man, in which he felt a personal affection; but their five - year service activity had placed a barrier between them for emotional reasons.
Alexey Alexandrovich, after completing his subscription, kept quiet for a long time, looking at Michael Vasiljevic, and tried several times, but couldn't speak.
He's already prepared the phrase, "Have you heard of my grief?" But he ended up saying, as usual, "So make this for me," and he let him go.
Another man was a doctor, who was also well placed for him; but there was a long-standing tacit agreement between them that both were busy and both had to hurry.
The women's friends and the first of them, the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, Alexi Alexandrovich, didn't think about.
All women, just like women, were scary and disgusted by him.
XXII
Alexey Alexandrovich forgot about Count Lydia Ivanovna, but she didn't forget him.
In this most difficult moment of lonely despair, she came to him and entered his office without a report.
She caught him in the same position he was sitting in with his head on both hands.
'J'ai force la consigne,' she said, walking in fast steps and breathing hard from excitement and rapid motion. 'I heard it all!
Alexei Alexandrovich!
My friend! 'She continued, shaking his hand firmly with both hands and looking into his eyes with her beautiful thoughtful eyes.'
Alexei Alexandrovich, frowning, climbed up and, with his hand out of her hand, moved her chair.
'Would you please, Countess? I do not accept because I am sick, Countess,' he said, and his lips shivered.
'My friend! 'I repeat the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, keeping an eye on him, and suddenly her eyebrows rose from the inside, forming a triangle on her forehead; her ugly yellow face became even prettier; but Alexei Alexandrovich felt that she felt sorry for him and was ready to cry.
And he found mercy: he grabbed her swollen hand, and began kissing her.
'My friend! 'She said to those who were interrupted by the excitement of their voice.' 'You must not give up grief.
Your grief is great, but you must find comfort.
'I am broken, I am killed, I am no more than a man!' said Alexi Alexandrovich, releasing her hand, but continuing to look into her tears-filled eyes. 'My situation is terrible because I don't find anywhere, and I don't find the points of support in me.
'You will find a support, look for it not in me, though I ask you to believe in my friendship,' she said with a sigh. 'The support is our love, the love he has bequeathed to us.'
His burden is easy,' she said with the enthralled look that Aleksey Alexandrovich knew so well. 'He will support you and help you.
Even though these words were so condescending to their high feelings that it was too much, a new, enthralled, recently spread mystical mood in Petersburg, it was good for Alexei Alexandrovich to hear it now.
'I am weak. I've been destroyed.
I didn't see anything coming, and now I don't understand it.
'My friend,' said Lydia Ivanovna.
'It is not the loss of what is now, not this,' he continued. 'I'm not sorry.
But I can't help but be ashamed in front of people for the-- the place I'm in.
It's bad, but I can't. I can't.
'It is not you who have done the great forgiveness that I admire and all of you have done, but it is he who dwells in your heart,' said the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, enthrallingly raising your eyes, 'and therefore you cannot be ashamed of what you have done.'
Alexey Alexandrovich frowned and frowned on his hands and began cracking his fingers.
'We need to know all the details,' he said in a thin voice. 'The power of man has limits, Countess, and I have found the limit of mine.
All day today, I had to make orders, house orders, coming out of my new, lonely situation.
The servants, the governess, the bills...
That little fire burned me, I couldn't stand it.
At lunch... I almost left lunch yesterday.
I couldn't bear the way my son looked at me.
He didn't ask me the meaning of all this, but he wanted to ask, and I couldn't stand that look.
He was afraid to look at me, but it's not enough...
Alexei Alexandrovich wanted to mention the bill that had been brought to him, but his voice trembled, and he stopped.
That bill, on blue paper, for hats, ribbons, he couldn't remember without feeling sorry for himself.
'I understand, my friend,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna. 'I understand everything.
You won't find help and comfort in me, but I only came here to help you if I can.
If I could take all these little degrading care away from you...
I understand you need a woman's word, a woman's order.
You're entrusting me?
Alexei Alexandrovich shook her hand in silence and gratefully.
'We'll take Sergeus together.
I'm not good at practical things. But I'll take it, I'll be your housekeeper.
Don't thank me.
I'm not doing it myself...
'I can't thank you enough.
'But, my friend, do not give in to this feeling of which you have spoken,' to be ashamed that there is a Christian's highest height: whoever humiliates himself will be exalted.
And you can't thank me. We must thank him and ask for his help.
In him alone we will find peace, comfort, salvation, and love,' she said, and when she looked up to the sky, she began to pray, as Alexis Alexandrovich understood by her silence.
Alexey Alexandrovich listened to her now, and those expressions that had not previously been unpleasant to him, but seemed redundant, now seemed natural and comforting.
Alexey Alexandrovich did not like this new, enthralled spirit.
He was a religious man who was primarily interested in religion in a political sense, and a new doctrine that allowed for some new interpretations, precisely because it opened the door to argument and analysis, was in principle unpleasant to him.
He used to be cold and even hostile to this new teaching and to the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, who was attracted to it, never argued, but carefully ignored her challenges.
Now, for the first time, he listened to her words with pleasure and did not object internally to them.
'I am very, very grateful to you for your deeds and your words,' he said, when she finished praying.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna once again shook both the hands of her friend.
'Now I am getting down to business,' she said with a smile, silently and crying out of her face the rest of her tears. 'I'm going to Serezha.
Only as a last resort will I come to you. 'And she stood up and went out.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna went to half of Serezha and there, crying through the cheeks of a frightened boy, told him that his father was a saint and that his mother had died.
'---the Countess Lydia Ivanovna fulfilled her promise.
She's really taken care of the arrangement and the maintenance of Alexei Alexandrovich's house. But she did not exaggerate by saying that she was not strong in practical matters.
All of her orders had to be changed because they were not executed, and they had been changed by Cornei, the valet of Alexei Alexandrovich, who now undetected the whole of Karen's house and quietly and carefully told him what he needed during the dressing of the barn.
But Lydia Ivanovna's help was still highly valid: she gave her moral support to Alexey Alexandrovich in her love and respect for him and, in particular, that she thought that she had almost converted him into Christianity, that is, out of indifference and laziness, turned him into a warm and firm supporter of the new explanation of Christian teachings that had recently spread in Petersburg.
It was easy for Alexei Alexandrovich to see that.
Aleksey Alexandrovich, like Lydia Ivanovna and others who shared their views, was completely devoid of the depth of imagination, the mental ability that makes the imagination so valid that it requires consistency with other ideas and reality.
He saw nothing impossible or inappropriate about the notion that the death that exists for the unbelievers does not exist for him, and that since he has full faith, the judge of which he himself is a judge, there is no sin in his soul, and he is already in complete salvation here on earth.
True, the ease and error of this view of his faith was vaguely felt to Alexey Alexandrovich, and he knew that when he did not think at all that his forgiveness was an act of supreme power, gave himself up to that immediate feeling, he felt more happiness than when, as now, every minute he thought that Christ lived in his soul, and that, by signing the papers, he was doing his will; but for Alexey Alexandrovich to think so, he needed so much in his humiliation to have that, even if it were a fictional height with which he, despised by all, could despise others that he had held on as salvation for his supposed salvation.
XXIII
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna, a very young ecstatic girl, was married to a rich, noble, kind, and devious funny man.
In the second month, the husband abandoned her, and on her enthralled confidence in tenderness he responded only with ridicule and even hostility, which people who knew both the good heart of the count and saw no shortcomings in the enthralled Lydia could not explain to themselves.
Since then, although they had not been divorced, they had lived apart, and when the husband had met with the wife, he had always treated her with a constant poisonous mockery, the cause of which could not be understood.
Countess Lydia Ivanovna has long since ceased to be in love with her husband, but she has never ceased to be in love with anyone ever since.
She was in love with a few suddenly, men and women; she was in love with almost all people, something particularly outstanding.
She was in love with all the new princesses and princes who became related to the king's family name, and was in love with one mitropolitan, one vicar, and one priest.
She was in love with one journalist, three Slavs, Komisarov; one minister, one doctor, one English missionary, and Karenina.
All these love, then weakened and intensified, did not prevent her from pursuing the most common and complex court and secular relations.
But ever since she took Karenin under her special protection after the disaster, since she worked at Karen's house to care for his well-being, she's felt that all other love isn't real, and that she's really in love with Karenin now.
The feeling she now felt for him seemed stronger than all her previous feelings.
Looking at her feelings and comparing it to the old ones, she clearly saw that she wouldn't have been in love with Komisarov if he hadn't saved the king's life, wouldn't have been in love with Ristic-Kujitsky if it hadn't been a Slavic question, but that Karenina loved him for herself, for his high ununderstandable soul, for her sweet, thin sound of his voice with his long intonations, for his tired look, for his character, and his soft white hands with swollen veins.
Not only was she happy to meet him, but she looked on his face for signs of the impression she had made on him.
He wanted to like her not only with words, but with all his specialness.
She's done more toilets for him now than ever before.
She made herself dream about what would have happened if she hadn't been married and he was free.
She was blushing when he walked into the room, and she couldn't hold a smile of joy when he said something nice to her.
For several days now, Countess Lydia Ivanovna has been in great excitement.
She found out that Anna was with Wronsky in Petersburg.
You should have saved Alexei Alexandrovich from dating her, you should have saved him from even the painful knowledge that this horrible woman is in the same city as him and that he can meet her every minute.
Lydia Ivanovna, through her acquaintances, has been scouting about what these disgusting people are going to do, as she called Anna with Vronski, and has tried to lead all the movements of her friend these days so that he can't meet them.
The young Adjutant, a friend of Vronsky's, through whom she received information and who, through Countess Lydia Ivanovna, hoped to obtain a concession, told her that they had finished their business and left another day.
Lydia Ivanovna was already calming down, just as she had received a note the other morning, whose handwriting she had been horrified to learn.
It was Anna Karenna's handwriting.
The envelope was made of thick, like a foot, of paper; on long yellow paper there was a huge monogram, and the letter smelled beautiful.
'Who brought it?
'The commissioner from the hotel.'
Countess Lydia Ivanovna couldn't sit down long enough to read the letter.
She had a heart attack, which she was exposed to.
When she calmed down, she read the following French letter:
"Madame la Comtesse," the Christian feelings that fill your heart, give me, I feel, unforgivable courage to write to you.
I'm unhappy to be separated from my son.
I beg your permission to see him one time before I leave.
Forgive me for reminding you of myself.
I'm talking to you, not to Alexei Alexandrovich, just because I don't want to make this generous man suffer with a memory of himself.
Knowing your friendship with him, you'll understand me.
Will you send Serezha to me, or should I come to the house at a known, appointed time, or will you let me know when and where I can see him outside the house?
I'm not suggesting a waiver, knowing the generosity of who it depends on.
You can't imagine how eager I am to see him, so you can't imagine the gratitude that your help will bring to me.
Anna."
Everything in the letter was annoying to Countess Lydia Ivanovna: both the content and the hint of generosity, and in particular the uneasy tone that seemed to her.
'Tell me that there will be no answer,' said the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, and immediately, when she opened the bouvar, wrote to Alexei Alexandrovich, hoping to see him at the first hour on a greeting in the palace.
"I need to talk to you about an important and sad matter. That's where we'll agree.
It's best I have where I tell you to make your tea.
It's necessary.
He lays a cross, but he also gives strength,' she added, to prepare it for a little bit.
Countess Lydia Ivanovna usually wrote two and three notes a day to Alexei Alexandrovich.
She loved this process of communication with him, which was elegant and mysterious, as she lacked in her personal relations.
XXIV
Congratulations are over.
Those who had left had been talking about the latest news of the day, the new awards received and the relocation of important employees.
'Like Countess Mary Borisovne, the military ministry, and the chief of staff, Princess Watkowski,' said, speaking to the high beauty of the lady who asked him about the move, the gray old lady in the golden coat.
'And I am adjutant,' replied the lady, smiling.
You're from the spiritual department. And you have Karenina as your assistant.
'Hello, Prince! 'The old man said, shaking the hand of the right man.'
'What did you say about Karenin? 'The prince said.'
'He and the Putyatov received Alexander Nevsky.
'I thought he had one.
'No, I'm not.
Look at him,' said the old man, pointing his hat to a room in the door with an influential member of the Karenin State Council in a court-martial with a new red ribbon over his shoulder. 'I am happy and happy as a penny of copper,' he added, stopping to shake the hand of the hand of the handsome chamberlain.
'No, he has grown old,' said the Chamberlain.
'Of concern.'
He's writing all the projects now.
He won't let the poor go until he's done the job.
'How old are you?
Il fait des pasions.
I think Countess Lydia Ivanovna is jealous of his wife now.
'Well, then!
Countess Lydia Ivanovna, please don't say anything bad.
'Is it wrong that she is in love with Karenina?'
'Is it true that Karenina is here?
'I mean, not here in the palace, but in Petersburg.'
I met them yesterday, with Alexei Vronsky, Bras dessus, Bras dessous, at sea.
'C'est un homme qui n'a pas...' began the chamberlain, but stopped, giving way and bowing to the king's last name.
In this way, they spoke of Alexei Alexandrovich, condemning him and laughing at him, while he began his journey to a member of the Council of State, whom he had captured, and did not stop his presentation for a moment, in order not to miss him, setting out a financial project for him.
Almost at the same time as his wife left Alexei Alexandrovich, he was struck by the most bitter event for a man's employee: the end of the ascending service movement.
The end came, and everyone clearly saw it, but he himself did not realize that his career was over.
Whether the encounter with Stremov, the misfortune with his wife, or simply the fact that he had reached the limit to which he had been assigned, but it became apparent to everyone this year that his service was over.
He was still an important member of many commissions and committees; but he was a man who was all out and was no longer expected.
Whatever he said, whatever he suggested, he was heard as if what he was offering had long been known and was not necessary.
But Alexei Alexandrovich did not feel that way and, on the contrary, having been removed from direct participation in government activities, he saw more clearly than ever before the shortcomings and errors in others' activities and felt obliged to point to the means to correct them.
Shortly after his separation from his wife, he began writing his first note on the new trial from the countless series of inappropriate notes on all the branches of government that he was destined to write to him.
Not only did he not notice his hopeless position in the service world, nor did he grieve for it, but he was more satisfied with his activities than ever before.
"A married man cares for the worldly things, how to please his wife, a single man cares for the Lord, how to please the Lord," says the apostle Paul, and Alexi Alexandrovich, who is now in charge of the writing, often recalled the text.
He felt that since he was left without his wife, he had served God more than ever.
The apparent impatience of a member of the Council who wanted to leave him did not embarrass him; he stopped speaking only when the member, after taking advantage of the king's name, slipped away from him.
When he was alone, he lowered his head, gathering his thoughts, then looked back and went to the door, which he hoped would meet Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'And how strong and healthy they are all are physically,' thought Alexey Alexandrovich, looking at the mighty man with the fragranced vagrants of the chamberger and the red neck of the swollen prince he had to pass by. 'It is rightly said that everyone in the world is evil,' he thought, touching the camouflage again.
As he moved his feet quickly, he, with the usual appearance of fatigue and dignity, bowed to these gentlemen who spoke of him, and looked at the door and looked for the Countess Lydia Ivanovna with his eyes.
'Ah! "Alexei Alexandrovich!" said the old man, angryly shiny with his eyes, while Karenin levelled with him and leaned his head with a cold gesture. 'I have not yet congratulated you,' he said, pointing to his new ribbon.
'Thank you,' replied Alexis Alexandrovich. 'What a beautiful day it is today,' he added, according to his habit, especially lying down on the word 'beautiful'.
He knew that they had laughed at him, but he did not expect from them anything but hostility, and he was used to it.
When he saw the yellow shoulders coming out of the corset, the Countess Lydia Ivanovna came out of the door, and called upon her beautiful thoughtful eyes, he smiled, opening his unflinching white teeth, and approached her.
Lydia Ivanovna's toilet has cost her a lot of trouble, just like all her toilets have been lately.
The purpose of her bathroom was now quite the reverse of the one she was chasing thirty years ago.
Then she wanted to decorate herself with something, and the more, the better. Now, on the contrary, it must have been so out of date and decorated that it only cared that the opposite of these ornaments with its appearance would not be too terrible.
And for Alexey Alexandrovich, she did, and she seemed attractive to him.
To him, she was the only island not only of kindness to him, but of love among the sea of hostility and ridicule that surrounded him.
As he walked through the formation of ridiculous views, he naturally reached out to her in love as a plant to light.
'Congratulations,' she said, pointing her eyes at the tape.
By holding back the smile of pleasure, he shook his shoulders, closing his eyes, as if it could not please him.
Countess Lydia Ivanovna knew well that it was one of his greatest joys, even though he would never admit it.
'What is our angel? 'The Countess Lydia Ivanovna said, referring to Serezha.
'I can't say that I'm quite pleased with them,' said Alexandrovich, raising his eyebrows and opening his eyes. 'And Sitnikov is not pleased with them.'
(Sitnikov was a teacher entrusted with the secular education of Serezi.)
As I told you, there is some coldness in it to the very main issues that must touch the soul of every man and child, &quot; he began to express his thoughts on the only other than the service he was interested in -- bringing up a son.
When he returned to life and activity with the help of Lydia Ivanovich, he felt he had a responsibility to raise his remaining son.
Never before, he had devoted some time to a theoretical study of the subject.
And when he read several books of anthropology, pedagogy, and didactics, he drew up a plan for his upbringing and invited the best peterburg teacher to lead the work.
And it was always about him.
'Yes, but the heart?'
I see in him the heart of my father, and with such a heart a child cannot be fooled,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna with delight.
'Yes, maybe...'
As for me, I'm doing my duty. That's all I can do.
'You will come to me,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna, silently, 'we need to talk about a sad matter for you.
I'd give anything to spare you some memories, but that's not what others think.
I got a letter from her.
She's here in Petersburg.
Aleksey Alexandrovich shuddered at the mention of his wife, but immediately his face became immobile, expressing total helplessness in the matter.
'I was waiting for this,' he said.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna looked at him enthralled, and tears of admiration in the majesty of his soul came to her eyes.
XXV
When Alexey Alexandrovich entered a small, old-fashioned porcelain with portraits, the comfy office of Countess Lydia Ivanovna wasn't the landlady.
She was changing.
On the round table there was a tablecloth and a Chinese instrument and a silver teapot.
Alexey Alexandrovich looked at countless familiar portraits that adorned the office and, sitting on the table, revealed the Gospel that lay on it.
The noise of the Countess' silk dress entertained him.
'Well, now we shall sit still,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna, with a excited smile rushing between the table and the couch, 'and we shall speak for our tea.
After a few words of preparation, Countess Lydia Ivanovna, who was heavily breathing and blushing, handed over to Alexei Alexandrovich the letter she had received.
When he read the letter, he kept quiet for a long time.
'I do not suppose that I have the right to refuse her,' he said shyly, raising my eyes.
'My friend! You see no evil in anyone!
'I see, on the contrary, that everything is evil.
But is it fair?
His face was indecisive and seeking advice, support and guidance in a case that he did not understand.
'No,' interrupted his Countess Lydia Ivanovna. 'There is a limit to everything.
I understand immorality,' she said not quite sincerely, because she could never understand what leads women to immorality, 'but I don't understand cruelty, to whom? To you!
How do you stay in the city where you are?
No, live the century, learn the century.
And I'm learning to understand your height and its lowness.
'Who will throw the stone?' 'Alexei Alexandrovich, apparently satisfied with his role, said. 'I have forgiven everything, and therefore I cannot deny her that there is a need for love for her -- love for her son...
'But is it love, my friend?
Is it sincere?
Let's say you forgave, you forgive... but do we have the right to act on this angel's soul?
He thinks she's dead.
He prays for her and asks God to forgive her sins... and that's better.
What's he gonna think?
'I didn't think about it,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, obviously agreeing.
The Countess Lydia Ivanovna covered her face with her hands and shut her mouth.
She prayed.
'If you ask my advice,' she said, praying and opening your face, 'I do not advise you to do so.
Don't I see how you suffer, how it opened your wounds?
But let's just say you're always forgetting yourself.
But what's that got to do with anything?
For your new suffering, for your child's suffering?
If there's anything human left in it, she shouldn't want it.
No, I don't hesitate to advise, and if you let me, I'll write to her.
And Alexei Alexandrovich agreed, and Countess Lydia Ivanovna wrote the following French letter:
"My gracious lady,
The memory of you for your son can lead to questions on his part that cannot be answered without putting a spirit of condemnation into the child's soul of what should be holy to him, so I ask you to understand your husband's refusal in a spirit of Christian love.
I beg the Most High to be merciful to you.
The Countess of Lydia."
This letter has achieved the hidden purpose that Countess Lydia Ivanovna hid from herself.
It's deeply insulted Anna.
For his part, when he returned home from Lydia Ivanovna, he could not submit himself to his usual activities on that day and find the peace of mind of the believer and the saved man he had previously felt.
The memory of his wife, who was so much to blame before him and before whom he was as holy as the Countess Lydia Ivanovna had rightly told him, should not have embarrassed him; but he was not at peace: he could not understand the books he had read, could not repel the painful memories of his relationship with her, of the mistakes he now thought he had made concerning her.
The memory of how he accepted her admission of infidelity when returning from the races (in particular that he demanded only external decency from her and not a duel) as remorse tormented him.
His memory of the letter he wrote to her, especially his forgiveness, which no one needed, and his concern for another's child burned his heart with shame and remorse.
He now felt the same sense of shame and remorse by going over everything he had done to her and remembering the awkward words he had made to her after long hesitation.
"But what am I to blame?" 'He said to himself. And that question has always given rise to another question -- whether they feel otherwise, whether they like it or not, whether these other people, these Vronskys, the Oblons... these cambers with fat caviars, are getting married.
And it seemed to him that a number of these juicy, strong, unmistakable people, who had always, involuntarily, drawn his curious attention to themselves everywhere.
He turned those thoughts away, he tried to convince himself that he lived not for the present, for the temporary life, but for eternity, that there was peace and love in his soul.
But what he did in this timeless, worthless life, seemed to him to have made some small mistakes, torturing him as if there had never been the eternal salvation he believed in.
But the temptation did not last long, and soon the calm and height that allowed him to forget what he did not want to remember restored to the soul of Alexey Alexandrovich.
XXVI
'Well, Capitonich?' 'Serezha said, bloated and funny, returning from the walk on the day before his birth, and giving his assembly to a tall one, smiling at a small man from his height, to an old doorman. 'What, was the official tied up today?
Got your dad?
'Received.
Only the ruler came out, and I reported,' said the doorman, winking with joy. 'I think I'll take it off.
'Serezha! 'Slavish guverner said, staying in the doors leading into the inner rooms. 'Take it off yourself.
But Serezha, though he heard a weak guverner's voice, ignored him.
He stood by his hand behind the doorman's bandage and looked him in the face.
'Well, Dad did what he wanted for him, didn't he?
The doorman nodded his head in the affirmative.
A tied official who'd already gone seven times to ask Alexei Alexandrovich for something, was interested in Serezha and the doorman.
Serezha caught him once in his hay and heard him sorry to ask the doorman to report himself, saying he had to die with his children.
Since then, Serezha, having met another official in the blues, has become interested in him.
'Well, was it a pleasure?' 'He asked.'
'I'm so not happy!
Almost jumps out of here.
'Did you bring anything?' 'I asked Serezha, silently.'
'Well, sir,' whispered the doorman, shaking his head, 'it is from the Countess.
Serezha immediately realized that what the doorman was talking about was a gift from Countess Lydia Ivanovna to his birth.
'What are you saying?
Where?
'Corney came to see his father.
That's gotta be a good one!
'How big?
Is this gonna happen?
'Lower, yes, good.
'A book?'
'No, the thing.
Go, go, Vasily Lukić calls,' said the doorman, listening to the guverner's steps approaching and carefully putting his pen in half of the removed glove, which had the power to tie him up, and winking at him with his head on Vunić.
'Vassili Lukić, now! 'Serezha answered with that happy and loving smile, who had always defeated the executive Vasilia Lukić.'
Serezha had too much fun, too much happiness, so that he could not share with his friend the doorman the family joy he had learned in the summer garden from the niece of the Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
This joy seemed particularly important to him by the coincidence of the official's joy and his joy of bringing toys.
Serezha felt that today was a day on which everyone should be happy and happy.
'Do you know how dad got Alexander Nevsky?
'I don't know!
We've come to congratulate you.
'Well, is he happy?'
'How unjoyful of the king's mercy!
So he deserved it,' said the doorman strictly and seriously.
Serezha looked at the doorman's face, which had been studied to the slightest detail, especially his chin, hanging between gray buckenbards, which no one had seen except Serezha, who had always looked at him from the bottom.
'Well, how long have you had your daughter?
The doorman's daughter was a ballet dancer.
'When do we go on Sundays?'
They have a student, too. And you too, sir, go.
When Serezha came to the room, instead of sitting down for lessons, he told the teacher his suggestion that what had been brought must have been a car. 'What do you think?' 'He asked.'
But Vasily Lukić was only thinking about teaching a grammatical lesson for a teacher who would come at two o'clock.
'No, you just tell me, Vasily Lukić,' he asked suddenly, sitting behind a desk and holding a book in his hand, 'what is greater than Alexander Nevsky?
Do you know how dad got Alexander Nevsky?
Vasily Lukić replied that more than Alexander Nevsky was Vladimir.
'And higher?
'And above all, Andrei the First Caller.'
'And what is higher than Andrei?'
'I don't know.
'How, and you don't know?' 'and Serezha, reclining on his hands, went into thought.'
His thoughts were most complex and varied.
He thought about how his father would suddenly receive him and Vladimir and Andrei, and how, as a result, he would be much kinder in class today, and how he himself, when he was big, would receive all the orders and what would be made up above Andrei.
They're just gonna make it up, and he's gonna deserve it.
They're gonna make it up, and he's gonna deserve it.
In such reflections, the time passed, and when the teacher came, the lesson about the circumstances of the time and place and course of action was not ready, and the teacher was not only displeased but also disappointed.
This displeasure of the teacher touched Serezha.
He felt innocent for not learning a lesson; but no matter how hard he tried, he was determined not to do so: as the teacher interpreted him, he believed and understood, but as soon as he was alone, he was determined not to remember and understand that the short and so understandable word "suddenly" was a circumstance of course. But he felt sorry for what he had done to the teacher and wanted to comfort him.
He chose a minute when the teacher looked silently in the book.
'Michail Ivanovich, when are your birthdays?' 'He asked suddenly.'
'You'd think better about your work, and birthdays don't matter to a reasonable being.
It's the same day as the others you have to work on.
Serezha carefully looked at the teacher, at his rare beard, at the glasses that went down below the line, who was on the nose, and thought that he had heard nothing from what the teacher had explained to him.
He knew that the teacher didn't think what he was saying, that he felt it in the tone to which it was said.
"But why did they all conspire to say things in the same way, all boring and unnecessary?
Why does he push me away, why doesn't he love me?" 'He asked himself with sadness and couldn't come up with an answer.'
XXVII
After the teacher, there was a father's lesson.
Before my father came, Serezha sat down at the table playing with a knife and started thinking.
One of Serezia's favorite activities was to find her mother during a walk.
He did not believe in death at all, and especially in her death, despite what Lydia Ivanovna had told him and his father confirmed it, and therefore, after being told that she had died, he sought her out during the walk.
Every woman was full, graceful, with dark hair, and his mother.
When he saw such a woman in his heart, he felt tenderness, as if he was suffocating, and tears appeared in his eyes.
And he was about to expect her to approach him, raise the veil.
Her whole face will be seen, she will smile, she will hug him, he will hear her scent, he will feel the tenderness of her hand, and he will cry happily, once in the evening, as he lay in her feet and she tickled him, and he laughed and bite her white with the rings of his hand.
Then, when he learned by accident from the nanny that his mother had not died, and his father and Lydia Ivanovna explained to him that she had died for him because she was not good (which he could no longer believe because he loved her), he also sought and waited for her.
Today, in the summer garden, there was a lady in a purple veil, who was followed by him, waiting for it to be her, as she approached them along the path.
The lady didn't get to them and went somewhere.
Now more than ever, Serezha felt the tide of love for her and now, forgetting, waiting for his father, cut the whole end of the table with a knife, staring brightly at him and thinking about her.
'Papa is coming! 'Cause he was entertained by Vasily Lukić.
Serezha jumped up, came up to his father, and kissed his hand, and looked closely at him, looking for signs of joy in receiving Alexander Nevsky.
'Did you walk well? 'Alexei Alexandrovich said, sitting on his chair, bringing the book of the Old Testament to him and opening it.'
Although he had repeatedly told Serezha that every Christian should know the sacred history, he had often dealt with the book in the Old Testament himself, and Serezha noticed it.
'Yes, it was very fun, Dad,' said Serezha, sitting side by side on the chair and rocking it, which was forbidden. 'I saw Nadika (Nadenka was raised by Lydia Ivanovna's niece).
She told me you were given a new star.
Are you happy, Dad?
'First of all, don't swing, please,' said Alexis Alexandrovich. 'And secondly, the road is not reward, but work.'
And I'd like you to understand that.
If you work hard, learn to gain a reward, you will find it hard; but when you work hard,' said Aleksey Alexandrovich, remembering how he maintained his sense of duty in the boring work of this morning, which took place in the signing of one hundred and eighteen papers. 'If you work hard, you will find a reward in it.'
With tenderness and joy, Serezhi's eyes faded and fell under his father's eyes.
It was the very familiar tone with which his father had always treated him and which Serezha had learned to fake.
His father always spoke to him -- that's how Serezha felt -- as if he was talking to some imaginary boy, one of those books, but nothing like Serezha. And Serezha always tried to pretend to be that book boy with his father.
'You understand that, I hope?' 'Father' said the father.
'Yes, Papa,' answered Serezha, pretending to be an imaginary boy.
The lesson consisted of learning by heart several verses from the Gospel and repeating the beginning of the Old Testament.
The poems from the Gospel of Sereza were well known, but the minute he spoke them, he looked at the bone of his father's forehead, which was so steep at the temple, that he was confused and the end of one verse on the same word was moved to the beginning of the other.
It was obvious to Alexei Alexandrovich that he did not understand what he was saying, and it was annoying to him.
He frowned and began to explain what Serezha had heard many times and could never remember, because he understood too clearly -- like, suddenly there's a pattern.
Serezha looked scaredly at his father and thought only of one thing: whether he made him repeat what he had said, as he had sometimes said.
And that thought scared Serezha so much that he didn't understand anything anymore.
But my father didn't make me repeat it and moved on to a lesson from the Old Testament.
Serezha spoke well of the events, but when he had to answer questions about what he had learned, he knew nothing, even though he had already been punished for the lesson.
But the place where he couldn't say anything anymore, and he was walking around, and he was cutting a table, and he was swinging on a chair, was where he had to tell him about the subtopean Patriarchs.
Of them, he knew no one but Enoch, who was taken to heaven alive.
He used to remember the names, but now he forgot all about them, especially because he had his beloved face from all the Old Testament, and he was tied up in his head by a whole long movement of thought, to which he now stood, staring at the chain of his father's watches and up to half the button of his vest.
The death he was told so often about, Serezha didn't believe completely.
He didn't believe that people he loved could die, and that he was special-- that he would die himself.
It was completely impossible and unclear for him.
But he was told that everyone would die; he asked even people whom he believed, and they confirmed it; the nanny also spoke, though reluctantly.
But Enoch didn't die, so not everyone dies. "Why can't anyone deserve the same thing in front of God and be taken to heaven alive?" 'I thought Serezha.'
The bad ones, that is, the ones Serezha didn't like -- they could have died, but the good ones could all be like Enoch.
'Well, which Patriarchs?'
'Enoch, Enos.
'That's what you said.
Bad, Serezha, very bad.
'If you do not try to learn what is most necessary for a Christian,' said the father, rising up, 'what can take you?
I'm not happy with you, and Peter Ignatić is not happy with you...
I have to punish you.
The father and the teacher were both displeased with Sergeus, and he really did not study very well.
But there's no way to say he was an incompetent boy.
On the contrary, he was much more capable than the boys that the teacher had set as the example of Serezé.
From his father's point of view, he didn't want to learn what he was taught.
In fact, he could not learn that.
He could not because he had demands in his heart that were more binding than those that his father and his teacher had stated.
These demands were in contradiction, and he fought directly with his teachers.
He was nine years old, he was a child; but he knew his soul, she was dear to him; he guarded her like an eyelid, and did not let anyone into his soul without the key of love.
His tutors complained that he did not want to study, and his soul was full of thirst for knowledge.
And he studied from Capitonich, the nanny, Nadia, Vasily Lukić, not the teachers.
The water the father and the teacher had been waiting for on their wheels had long since leaked and worked elsewhere.
My father punished Serezha, not letting him go to Nadika, the niece of Lydia Ivanovna; but this punishment proved to be good for Serezha.
Vasily Lukić was spirited and showed him how to make windmills.
I've spent the entire evening working and dreaming about how to make a mill like this to sneak around, grab your hands by your wings, or tie yourself up -- and spin.
He did not think of Serez's mother all evening, but when he lay in bed, he remembered her and prayed in his own words that his mother should stop hiding tomorrow, at his birth, and come to him.
'Vassili Lukić, do you know what I've been praying for?
'To learn better?'
'No, I'm not.
'Toys?'
You're not gonna guess.
It's great, but it's a secret!
When it's done, I'll tell you.
Didn't you guess?
'No, I won't guess.
You tell me,' said Vasily Lukić, smiling that he had rarely been with him. 'Well, lie down, I'm putting out the candle.'
'And I can see what I see and what I pray for without a candle.
I almost told you a secret! 'Funny laughing,' said Serezha.
When the candle was removed, Serezha heard and felt his mother.
She stood over him and caressed him with her lover's eyes.
But the mills came, the knife, everything was mixed up, and he fell asleep.
XXVIII
Upon arriving in Petersburg, Wronsky and Anna stayed at one of the best hotels. individually, in the lower floor, Anna is upstairs with a child, a nurse, and a girl, in a large section of four rooms.
On the first day of his visit, he went to see his brother.
That's where he caught his mother coming from Moscow on business.
His mother and sister-in-law met him as usual; they asked him about a trip abroad, spoke of common acquaintances, but never mentioned his connection to Anna.
On the other hand, the other day, when he arrived in the morning, he himself asked him about her, and he told him clearly that he was looking at his relationship with Karenna as a marriage; that he hoped to have a divorce and then would marry her; and until then, he considered her as his wife, like any other wife, and asked him to give it to his mother and his wife.
'If the light doesn't approve of it, I don't care,' he said, 'but if my family wants to be related to me, they should be in the same relationship with my wife.
The older brother, who had always respected the judgment of the lesser, did not know well whether he was right or not until the light had resolved the matter; for his part, he had nothing against it and went to Anna with Alexei.
But it was implied that the brother knew their relationship, and it was said that Anna was going to the family of the city.
Despite his secular experience, he was in a strange error because of the new situation in which he was living.
He seemed to have to understand that the light was closed to him and Anna; but he now had some vague idea in his head that it was only in the old days and that now, with rapid progress (he was now invisible to himself), that society &apos; s view had changed and that the question of whether they would be accepted into society had not yet been resolved.
'It will be possible,' he thought, 'the light of the court will not accept it, but the loved ones can and must understand it properly.'
You can sit for a few hours with your legs in the same position, if you know that nothing's gonna stop you from changing your position; but if you know that you have to sit with your legs so fried, you're gonna have convulsions, and you're gonna twitch your legs, and you're gonna wiggle and you're gonna wiggle to a place where you want to pull them out.
This was the experience of the Warrior in relation to light.
Although he knew deep down that the light was closed to them, he tried to see if the light would change now and whether they would be accepted.
But he soon noticed that although the light was open to him personally, it was closed to Anna.
As in the game of a mouse cat, the hands raised for him were immediately lowered in front of Anna.
One of the first ladies of Peterburg's light he saw was his cousin Betsy.
'At last! 'She was happy to meet him.' 'And Anna?
I'm so glad!
Where are you staying?
I imagine, after your lovely journey, you are horrified by our Petersburg; I imagine your honeymoon in Rome.
What's the divorce?
Did they do all this?
Wronsky noticed that Betsy's admiration had diminished when she found out she hadn't had a divorce yet.
'The stone will be thrown at me, I know,' she said, 'but I will come to Anna; yes, I will certainly come.
You won't be here long?
Indeed, she came to Anna the same day; but her tone was no longer the same as before.
She was evidently proud of her courage and wanted Anna to appreciate her loyalty to her friendship.
She stayed no more than ten minutes talking about the secular news, and when she left, she said,
'You didn't tell me when the divorce was.
Let's say I threw my cap through the mill, but the other collars raised will beat you cold until you get married.
And it's so easy now.
Ca se fat.
So you're going on Friday?
It's too bad we won't see each other again.
By the tone of Betsy, Wronsky could have understood what he needed to expect from the light; but he made another attempt in his family.
He wasn't hoping for his mother.
He knew that her mother, who admired Anna so much when she first met her, was now inexorable to her for causing her to disrupt her son's career.
But he had high hopes for Varya, his brother's wife.
He felt that she would not throw a stone and would go to Anna with ease and determination and accept it.
On the other day, when he arrived, he went to see her and made one express his wish.
'You know, Alexei,' she said, listening to him, 'how much I love you and how much I am willing to do for you, but I kept quiet because I knew that I couldn't be useful to you and Anna Arkadievna,' she said, especially by barring "Anna Arkadievna." 'Do not think, please, that I may judge.'
Never; maybe I would have done the same in her place.
I don't go in and I can't go into the details,' she said, looking shyly at his dark face. 'But you have to say things by name.'
You want me to go see her, take her and rehab her in society; but you realize I can't do that.
My daughters are growing up, and I have to live in the light of my husband.
Well, I'm gonna go to Anna Arkadievna; she's gonna realize that I can't call her to me, or I'm gonna have to do it so that she doesn't meet those who look otherwise: it's gonna insult her.
I can't lift it...
'I don't think she should fall more than the hundreds of women you take! -- even more so that he interrupted it, and stood up silently, realizing that the daughter-in-law &apos; s decision was unalterable.
'Alexei! Don't be mad at me.
Please understand that it wasn't my fault,' said Varya with a shy smile, looking at him.
'I'm not angry with you,' he said, with the same sadness, 'but I'm in two pains.
It hurts me that it's breaking up our friendship.
Let's say it doesn't break, but it weakens.
You realize it can't be different to me either.
And with that, he walked out on her.
Holmes realized that further attempts were in vain and that it was necessary to stay in Petersburg for a few days, as in a foreign city, avoiding any contact with his former light, so as not to be subjected to the troubles and insults that were so painful for him.
One of the main problems of the situation in Petersburg was that Alexei Alexandrovich and his name seemed to be everywhere.
You couldn't start talking about anything so that the conversation wouldn't turn on Alexei Alexandrovich; you couldn't go anywhere without meeting him.
That's at least how it felt, as it seems to a man with a sick finger, that he's deliberately hurting it with that sickest finger.
Staying in Petersburg seemed even more difficult because he had seen a new mood in Anna that he did not understand.
It was like she was in love with him, and she was getting cold, irritable and impermeable.
She was suffering and hiding something from him, and as if she didn't notice the insults that had poisoned his life and for her, with her subtleness, must have been even more painful.
XXIX
One of the purposes of Anna's trip to Russia was to meet her son.
From the day she left Italy, the idea of this date continued to bother her.
And the closer she got to Petersburg, the joy and significance of that date seemed to her more and more.
She didn't ask herself how to set up this date.
It seemed natural and simple to see her son when she was in the same city as him; but when she arrived in Petersburg, she suddenly became clear about her current position in society, and she realized that it was difficult to arrange a date.
She's been living in Petersburg for two days.
The thought of her son hasn't left her for a moment, but she hasn't seen her son yet.
She felt that she had no right to go straight to the house where she could meet Alexei Alexandrovich.
She could have been kept away and insulted.
It was painful for her to write and to associate with her husband, and to think that she could be calm only when she did not think of her husband.
Seeing her son on a walk, finding out where and when he was going, she wasn't enough: she was so prepared for this date, she had so much to tell him, she wanted to hug him, kiss him.
The old nanny Serezi could help her and teach her. But the nanny was no longer at Alexei Alexandrovich's house.
Two days have passed in these hesitations and in the search for a nanny.
After learning about Alexey Alexandrovich's close relationship with Countess Lydia Ivanovna, Anna decided on the third day to write her a letter that she had worked hard to write, in which she deliberately said that allowing her son to see her son must depend on her husband's generosity.
She knew that if the letter was shown to her husband, he would not refuse her role of generosity.
The commissioner who carried the letter gave her the cruelest and most unexpected reply that there would be no answer.
She never felt as humiliated as the minute she called the commissioner and heard from him a detailed account of how he waited and was then told, "There will be no answer."
Anna felt humiliated, insulted, but saw that Countess Lydia Ivanovna was right from her point of view.
Her grief was stronger because she was lonely.
She couldn't and didn't want to share it with Vronski.
She knew that for him, despite the fact that he was the main cause of her misery, the question of her date with her son would appear to be an unimportant thing.
She knew that he would never be able to understand the depths of her suffering; she knew that she would hate him for his cold tone when it was mentioned.
And she feared it more than anything in the world and therefore hid everything that touched her son from him.
After staying at home all day, she made up the means to date her son and stopped at the decision to write to her husband.
She already wrote this letter when she received a letter from Lydia Ivanovna.
The Countess' silence humbled and subdued her, but the letter, all that she had read between his lines, was so annoying to her, she was so outraged by this anger as compared to her passionate legal affection for her son, that she defied others and stopped blaming herself.
"This coldness is an act of feeling," she said to herself. 'They only need to insult me and torture the child, and I will obey them! No way!
She's worse than me.
I'm not lying at least."
And then she decided that tomorrow, the very day of Serezia's birth, she would go straight to her husband's house, bribe people, cheat, but no matter what happens, she would see her son and destroy that ugly deception that surrounded the poor child.
She went to the toy shop, bought toys, and thought about a plan of action.
She'll be here early in the morning at eight o'clock when Alexis Alexandrovich hasn't been up yet.
She will have in her hand the money that will give the doorman and the footman to let her in, and without raising wu-- ala, she will say that she has come to congratulate Serezha's godfather and that she has been instructed to put toys at her son's bed.
She didn't just make the words she'd say to her son.
As much as she thought about it, she couldn't think of anything.
The next day, at 8 a.m., Anna came out of a grilled carriage and called at the big entrance of her former home.
'Come and see what you need.'
'Some lady,' said Capitonich, who was not yet dressed, in her coat and in her claps, looking out the window at a lady covered by a voila at the door itself.
The doorman's assistant, a young man unknown to Anna, had just opened the door to her, as she had already entered her door and, having removed a three - piece of paper from the muft, had rushed into his hand.
'Serezha...
Sergei Alexeic,' she said, and went forward.
After checking the paper, the doorman's assistant stopped her at another glass door.
'Who do you want?' 'He asked.'
She didn't hear his words or answer anything.
Having noticed the confusion of the unknown, Capitonich himself went out to her, missed the door and asked her what she wanted.
'From Prince Skorodumov to Sergei Alexeich,' she said.
'They have not yet stood up,' said the doorman looking closely.
Anna did not expect the unaltered environment of the front home where she lived for nine years to have such an impact on her.
One by one, memories, joyous and painful, rose up in her soul, and she forgot why she was here for a moment.
'Will you wait?' 'Said Capitonich, taking off her coat.'
By taking off the coat, Capitonich looked into her face, recognized her, and bowed down silently to her.
'I think, Your Excellency,' he said to her.
She wanted to say something, but the voice refused to make any sounds; she looked at the old man with a guilty plea and took quick and easy steps to the stairs.
By leaning forward and clinging to the steps, Capitonich followed her in an effort to overtake her.
'The teacher may be naked there.
I'll report it.
Anna continued to walk along a familiar ladder without understanding what the old man had said.
'This way, to the left. Sorry it's not clean. 'They are now in the old couch,' said the doorman, out of breath. 'Leave me a moment, Your Excellency, I will look in,' he said, and after overtaking her, he set up a high door and fled behind her. Anna stopped waiting. 'Just wake up,' said the doorman, leaving the door again.
And the minute the doorman said that, Anna heard the sound of the child's zenia. She recognized his son by one voice, and saw him alive before her.
'Let go, let go, let go! 'She spoke and walked into the high door.'
There was a bed on the right side of the door, and he sat on the bed, climbing up, and the boy was in one unbuttoned shirt, and was bent over with a calf, reaching out and racing.
The minute his lips came together, they were in a blissful smile, and with that smile, he fell back slowly and sweetly.
'Serezha! 'She whispered, unable to hear him.'
During her separation from him and the tide of love she had experienced lately, she imagined his four - year - old boy as she loved him most.
Now he wasn't even like she left him; he went further from a four - year - old, grew up and lost weight.
What is it?
How evil his face is, how short his hair!
How long are your hands!
How different he has been since she left him!
But it was him, with his head shape, his lips, his soft neck, and his broad shoulders.
'Serezha!' she repeated over the very ear of the child.
He went up on his elbow again, led his confused head to both sides, sort of looking for something, and opened his eyes.
Quietly and questionably, he looked for a few seconds at his mom standing still, then he smiled blissfully, and closed his eyes again, fell, not back, but towards her, to her hands.
'Serezha! My dear boy!-- she talked, suffocating and hugging his swollen body.
'Mom! 'He spoke, moving under her hands, to touch her hands in various places of the body.'
When he smiled, all with his eyes closed, he grabbed chubby hands from the back of the bed behind her shoulders, fell down on her, giving her the sweet odor and warmth that only children had, and began rubbing his face on her neck and shoulders.
'I knew,' he said, when he opened his eyes. 'My birth today.'
I knew you'd come.
I'm gonna get up now.
And by saying that, he fell asleep.
Anna looked at him greedyly; she saw him grow up and change in her absence.
She recognized and didn't recognize him naked, so big now, the legs out of the blanket, she recognized these skinny cheeks, these cut short whips of hair on the back of her head, on which she kissed him so often.
She felt all these things, and could not speak at all: tears choked her.
'What are you crying about, Mother? 'He said, waking up completely.' 'Mom, what are you crying about? 'He cried with a crying voice.'
'I am? I won't cry...
I'm crying for joy.
I haven't seen you in so long.
I will not, I will not,' she said, swallowing tears and turning away. 'Well, now it is time for you to get dressed,' she said, with silence, and, without letting out his hands, sat by his bed on the chair on which the dress had been prepared.
'How do you dress without me?
Like...' she wanted to start talking simple and fun, but she couldn't and she turned away again.
'I don't wash cold water, my dad didn't tell me to.
Have you seen Vasilia Lukić?
He's coming.
And you sat on my dress! 'and Serezha laughed. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and Serezha laughed.
She looked at him and smiled.
'Mommy, sweetheart, sweetheart! 'He cried out, throwing himself at her again and hugging her.' It's like now he's just seeing her smile, and he knows exactly what happened. 'It is not necessary,' he said, taking off her hat.
And as if once again he saw her without a hat, he tried to kiss her again.
'But what did you think of me?
Didn't you think I was dead?
'I never did.
'Did you not believe it, my friend?
'I knew, I knew! 'He repeated his favorite phrase, and when he grabbed her hand, which caressed his hair, held her hand to his mouth and kissed her.'
XXX
Vasily Lukić, between those who did not understand at first who the lady was, and who learned from the conversation that she was the same mother who abandoned her husband and whom he did not know because he had entered the house after her, was in doubt whether or not to enter or to inform Alexei Alexandrovich.
Having finally realized that it was his duty to raise Serezha at a certain time and that he therefore had nothing to say about who was sitting there, the mother or anyone else who had to do his job, he dressed himself, walked up to the door and opened it.
But the mother &apos; s and son &apos; s affections, the sound of their voices and what they said made him change his intention.
He shook his head and, when he sighed, closed the door.
"I'll wait ten more minutes," he said to himself, coughing up and rubbing tears.
There was a great deal of excitement between the servants of the house at the same time.
Everyone knew that the lady had arrived and that Capitonich had let her in, and that she was now in the nursery, and that the barn always went into the nursery at nine o'clock, and everyone understood that it was impossible for her to meet and that she needed to be prevented.
Corney, the valet, when he entered Switzerland, asked who and how he had missed it, and when he learned that Capitonich had accepted it and conducted it, he told the old man.
The doorman kept quiet, but when Cornei told him that he should be be bended for it, Capitonich jumped up to him and shoved his hands in the face of Cornea, saying,
'Yes, you wouldn't let me in!
For ten years I have served, but I have seen nothing, and thou wouldst go now, yes, and say, Be my guest, go away!
You understand politics, don't you?
That's it! You'd remember taking raccoon coats and raccoon coats!
'Soldier! 'In contempt he said to Kornay, and turned to the nanny that came in.' 'Here, judge, Mary Efimovna. He let her in, he didn't tell anyone,' said Corney to her. 'Alexei Alexandrovich is coming out, going to the nursery.'
'Course, business!' said the nanny. 'You, Cornei Vasiljevic, would have picked him up sometime, barina, and I would run away, and I would have taken her away.' Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, he
When the nanny entered the nursery, Serezha told her mother about how they had fallen with Nadia, rolled off the mountain, and had a three - time slice.
She listened to the sound of his voice, saw his face and the game of expression, felt his hand, but did not understand what he was saying.
I should've left, I should've left him -- there's only one thing she thought and felt.
She also heard the steps of Vasily Lukić, who came to the door and coughed, and heard the steps of the coming nanny; but she sat as stoned, unable to speak nor to rise.
'My lady, my love!' said the nanny, approaching Anna and kissing her arms and shoulders. 'God has brought joy to our newborn.
You haven't changed anything.
'Oh, nanny, honey, I didn't know you were in the house,' said Anna for a minute, waking up.
'I don't live, I live with my daughter, I come to congratulate you, Anna Arkadievna, my dear!
The nanny suddenly cried and kissed her hand again.
Serezha, shining with his eyes and a smile, and holding one hand behind his mother, one after the nanny, drowned the carpet with fat, bare feet.
The tenderness of his beloved nanny to his mother impressed him.
'Mom!
She often comes to me, and when she comes...' he started, but stopped, noting that the nanny whispered something to her mother and that the mother's face was scared and something like shame that didn't go to her mother. She approached him.
'My darling! 'She said.'
She couldn't say goodbye, but the look on her face said it, and he understood. 'Honey, sweet Kutik!' she said a name that she called his little one, 'will you not forget me?
You... -- but she couldn't talk anymore.
How many words she could have come up with that she could have told him!
And now she didn't know anything, and she couldn't say anything.
But Serezha understood everything she wanted to tell him.
He realized that she was unhappy and loved him.
He even understood what the nanny was whispering.
He heard the words "Always at nine o'clock," and he realized that it was about his father and that his mother was not allowed to see his father.
He understood that, but he could not understand why her face was frightened and ashamed.
It's not her fault, but she's afraid of him and she's ashamed of something.
He wanted to ask a question that would explain that doubt to him, but did not dare: he saw that she was suffering and felt sorry for her.
He held on to her silently and whispered:
'Don't go yet. He won't be coming soon.
His mother suspended him to see if he thought what he was saying, and in a frightened expression of his face, she read that he was not only talking about his father, but how he would ask her how he should think about his father.
'Serezha, my friend,' she said, 'love him, he is better and kinder than me, and I am to him guilty.'
When you grow up, you'll figure it out.
'There is no better one than you!' &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt; &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &
'Sweetheart, my little one! 'Speaks Anna, and weeps as weakly as he wept, childishly as he wept.'
At that time, the door opened, and Vasily Lukić entered.
The other door heard footsteps, and the nanny whispered scared and said,
'He is coming,' and she served her hat to Anna. Serezha went to bed and wept, covered his face with his hands.
Anna took those hands, kissed his wet face again, and walked out the door quickly.
Alexei Alexandrovich came to meet her.
When he saw her, he stopped and tilted his head.
Despite the fact that she had just said that he was better and kinder than her, in the quick look that she threw at him, covering his whole body with all the details, feelings of disgust and anger towards him and envy for her son reached her.
She quickly brought down the veil and, after a step, almost ran out of the room.
She didn't have time to get out and so she brought home those toys she chose with such love and sadness at the shop yesterday.
XXXI
As much as Anna wanted a date with her son as she had long thought about it and prepared for it, she did not expect this date to have such an impact on her.
When she returned to her lonely hotel office, she couldn't figure out why she was here.
"Yeah, it's over, and I'm alone again," she said to herself, and without taking off her hats, she sat on a chair standing by the fireplace.
As she stared at the bronze clocks standing on the table between the windows, she began to think.
A French girl brought from abroad came in to ask her to dress.
She looked at her with surprise and said: 'After.
Lacey offered me coffee.
'After,' she said. The Italian nurse, after removing the girl, went in with her and brought her to Anna.
A chubby, well-fed girl, as always, when she saw her mother, turned her fettered, naked hands down and smiled with a toothless mouth, and began, like a fish in a swim, tossing their hands and shrubbing them through the crumbling folds of a embroidered skirt.
You didn't have to smile, you didn't have to kiss the girl, you didn't have to put a finger on her for which she sniffed, swirling and bouncing all over her body; you didn't have to put a lip on her, which she took in her mouth as a kiss.
And Anna did all this, and took her into her arms, and made her jump, and kissed her fresh cheek and naked elbows; but when she saw this child, it became even clearer to her that the feeling she felt for him was not even love compared to how she felt for Serezha.
Everything about this girl was nice, but for some reason it didn't take the heart.
The first child, though an unloved man, was given all the power of love that was not satisfied; the girl was born under the most difficult conditions, and she was not given a hundred percent of the care that was placed on the first.
In addition, the girl was still waiting, and Serezha was almost a man and a loved one; he was already struggling with thoughts and feelings; he understood, he loved, he judged her, she thought, remembering his words and views.
And it was permanently not only physically, but spiritually separated from him, and it could not be corrected.
She gave the girl to a nurse, released her and opened a medallion with a portrait of Serezia when he was almost the same age as the girl.
She got up and took off her hat and picked up an album on the table that had his son's photo cards at other ages.
She wanted to debrief the cards and took them out of the album.
She took them all out. There was one, the last, the best card left.
He was in a white shirt riding on a chair, frowning his eyes and smiling with his mouth.
It was the most special, the best expression of it.
Small handy hands, which today were particularly hard to move with their white thin fingers, she hit the corner of the card several times, but the card snapped, and she couldn't get her hands on it.
The cut-off knife was not on the table, and she pushed out her son's card when she took out the card, which was made in Rome, in a round hat and with long hair.
"Yeah, there he is!" 'She said, looking at the Vronsky card, and suddenly remembered who was causing her present grief.'
She's never thought about him all morning. But now, suddenly, when she saw this courageous, noble, so familiar and sweet face, she felt an unexpected tide of love for him.
"Where is he?
How can he leave me alone with my suffering?" 'Suddenly, she thought with a sense of reproach, forgetting that she herself had kept from him everything concerning her son.'
She sent him to ask him to come to her now: with the peace of her heart, inventing the words she would say to him all things, and the expressions of his love that would comfort her, she waited for him.
The messenger returned with an answer that he had a guest, but that he was about to come and order her to ask if she could accept him with Prince Yashwin, who had come to Petersburg.
"Not alone, but since yesterday's dinner he hasn't seen me," she thought, "not so that I could tell him everything, but come with Yashwin."
And suddenly a strange thought came to her: What if he didn't love her anymore?
And as she went through the events of recent days, she felt that in everything she had seen the confirmation of that terrible thought: that he had not eaten at home yesterday, and that he had insisted that they should stay apart in Petersburg, and that even now she was not alone, as if to avoid seeing her face - to - face.
"But he has to tell me that.
I need to know that.
If I knew that, then I knew what I would do,' she said to herself, unable to imagine the situation in which she would be convinced of his indifference.
She thought he had lost love for her, felt close to despair, and as a result she felt particularly excited.
She called the girl and went to the bathroom. By dressing up, she took up more than all these days with her bathroom, as if he could love her and fall in love with her again for wearing that dress and that haircut that she was wearing more.
She heard the call before she was ready.
When she went out into the living room, it wasn't him, it was Yashwin who met her with his eyes.
He looked at her son's cards, which she left on the table, and took a slow look at her.
'We know each other,' she said, putting her little hand in the huge hand of the Confucious (which was so strange with his huge height and rough face) Yashwin. 'I've known you since last year at the races.
Give it,' she said, moving quickly to take away his son's card, which he was looking at, and looking at him with a much shiny eye. 'This year was a good race?
Instead, I watched the Corso races in Rome.
You don't like foreign life, though,' she said, smiling nicely. 'I know you and I know all your tastes, although I haven't met you very much.'
'It makes me very sorry because my tastes are increasingly bad,' said Yashwin, eating his left moustache.
After a few minutes and noting that he had looked at the clock, Yashwyn asked her if she would stay in Petersburg for a long time, and when he had turned his huge figure around, he took a cupi.
'I think it won't be long,' she said, looking at Vronsky with confusion.
'Will I never see you again?' 'Yashvin said, when he stood up and turned to Vronsky.' 'Where do you eat lunch?'
'Come and have lunch with me,' said Anna with determination as if she were angry at herself for being embarrassed, but blushing as always when she stood before a new man. 'Dinner isn't good here, but at least you'll see him.
Alexei of all her regimental comrades doesn't like anyone as much as he loves you.
'I am very glad,' said Yaszvin with a smile, by which he saw that he liked Anna very much.
Yashvin bowed and went out, and Wronsky was left behind.
'Are you coming, too?' 'She told him.'
'I am already late,' he replied. 'Go on!
I'm gonna catch up with you," he yelled at Yashwina.
She took his hand and, without letting her eye down, looked at him, looking for him in her mind to say to hold him.
'Wait, I have something to say,' and when she took his short hand, she pressed her neck. 'Yeah, is it okay that I invited him to lunch?'
'Greatly she did,' he said with a calm smile, opening his teeth and kissing her hand.
'Alexei, have you not changed with me? 'She said, pressing his hand with both hands.' 'Alexei, I have been tormented here.
When are we leaving?
'Soon, soon.'
You will not believe how hard it is for me to live here,' he said, and stretched out his hand.
'Well, go, go!' she said with insult and left him quickly.
XXXIII
By the time he got home, Anna hadn't been home yet.
Shortly afterwards, he was told that a lady had come to see her and that she had gone with her.
The fact that she left without saying where, what she had not yet been to, the fact that she had still travelled somewhere in the morning without telling him anything -- all of this, along with the strangely excited expression of her face this morning and the memory of the hostile tone with which she almost ripped her son &apos; s card out of his hand, made him think.
He decided to explain himself to her. And he was waiting for her in her living room.
But Anna didn't come back alone, but brought her aunt, the old lady, Princess Oblonsky.
It was the one who came in this morning and with Anna was shopping.
As if Anna hadn't noticed the expression of his face, anxious and questionable, and had fun telling him that she had bought it this morning.
He saw something special going on in her: in the shiny eyes, when they stopped at him, there was intense attention, and in the speech and movement there was that nervous speed and grace, which in the first place, their convergence was so glamorous to him, and now it was disturbing and frightening.
Lunch was for four.
Everyone's gathered to go out to the small dining room, as Tuskevich arrived with an assignment from Princess Betsy to Anna.
Princess Betsy asked to apologize for not coming to say goodbye; she was unwell, but asked Anna to visit her between half and nine o'clock.
He looked at Anna in the time frame, which showed that no one had been met; but it was as if Anna had not noticed it.
'It is a pity that I cannot be between half seven and nine,' she said, smiling a little.
'The Princess will be very sorry.
'Me too.
'You're going to listen to Patty, aren't you? 'Tushkevich said.
'Patty?
You're giving me an idea.
I'd go if I could get a bed.
'I can get it,' Tushkevich volunteered.
'I would be very, very grateful to you,' said Anna. 'Would you like to have lunch with us?'
Vronsky was shaking his shoulders a little bit.
He was determined not to understand what Anna was doing.
Why did she bring this old princess, why did she leave Tuskewich for lunch, and, more than anything, why send him to bed?
Was it possible to think, in her position, of going to Patty's ticket, where all the light she knew would be?
He took a serious look at her, but she answered him with the same funny or desperate look, the meaning of which he could not understand.
At lunch, Anna was having a lot of fun, as if she were flirting with Tuškevich and Yašvin.
When they got up from lunch, and Tuskevich went to get the bed, and Yaszvin went to smoke, he went with him. After a few minutes, he ran upstairs.
Anna was already dressed in a bright silk dress with velvet, which she made in Paris, with open breasts, and with white, expensive lace on her head, which shaped her face and especially favoured her bright beauty.
'Are you sure you're going to the theater? 'He said, trying not to look at her.'
'Why are you so afraid to ask?' 'Reviled by the fact that he did not look at her,' she said. 'Why wouldn't I go?'
It's like she didn't understand the meaning of his words.
'Of course there is no reason,' he said, frowning.
'That's what I'm saying,' she said, deliberately unaware of the irony of his tone and calmly wrapping a long, scented glove.
'Anna, for God's sake! What's wrong with you? 'He said, as she was waking up, just as her husband had once told her.'
'I don't know what you're asking.
'You know you can't go.
'Why?
I'm not going alone.
Princess Varvar went to get dressed, she's coming with me.
He shook his shoulders with a kind of perplexity and despair.
'But don't you know...' he began.
'I don't want to know! 'She almost cried out.' 'I don't want to.
Do I repent of what I've done?
No, no, no.
And if it were the same again, at first, it would be the same.
For us, for me and for you, the only thing that matters is whether we love each other.
And there are no other considerations.
Why do we live here apart and not see each other?
Why can't I go?
I love you, and I don't care,' she said in Russian, with a special, incomprehensible eye, looking at him, if you haven't changed.
Why don't you look at me?
He looked at her.
He saw all the beauty of her face and the outfit that always came to her.
But now it was the beauty and elegance of her that annoyed him.
'My feeling cannot change, you know, but I beg you not to go, I beg you,' he said again in French with a gentle prayer in his voice, but with a cold look.
She didn't hear the words, but she saw the coldness of her eyes and said with irritation:
'And I ask you to announce why I should not go.'
'Cause it could hurt you...' he closed it down.
'I don't understand.
Yashwin n'est pas compromettant, and Princess Varvar is no worse than the others.
There she is.
XXXIII
For the first time, he felt annoyed against Anna, almost angry for her deliberate lack of understanding of her situation.
The feeling was heightened by the fact that he was unable to tell her the reason for his displeasure.
If he had just told her what he thought, he would have said, "In this outfit, with all the princess known to appear in the theater, it was not only to acknowledge the position of the woman who had died, but also to challenge the light, that is to say, to reject it forever."
He couldn't tell her that.
"But how can she not understand it, and what does it do?" 'He said to himself.
At the same time, he felt his respect for her diminished and increased consciousness of her beauty.
Frozen returned to his room and, sucking up his long legs to the chair and drinking cognac with celery water, he told himself to do the same.
'You say, Mighty Lankowski.
This horse is good, and I advise you to buy it,' said Yashvin, looking at the dark face of his comrade. 'He has balcony, but his legs and head are better desired.
'I think I will,' he replied.
Talking about horses occupied him, but never for a moment did he forget Anna, willingly listen to the sound of steps on the hallway, and look at the watches on the fireplace.
'Anna Arkadievna ordered us to report that they had gone to the theatre.
Yaszwin, who slammed a glass of cognac in boiling water, drank and stood up, curling up.
'Well? 'Let's go,' he said, as he smiled under the moustache and showed it with a smile, that he understood the cause of the gloom, but did not give it any weight.
'I will not go,' he replied with sadness.
'I have to, I promised.'
Well, goodbye.
'Come into the chair, take the Krasine chair,' said Yasvin, coming out.
'No, I care.
"A woman's concern is even worse with a woman," thought Yashwin, leaving the hotel.
When he was alone, he got up from his chair and started walking around the room.
"Today what?
Fourth ticket...
Egor is there with his wife and his mother, probably.
That means all of Petersburg is there.
Now she's in, she's taken off her coat, and she's out.
Tuškevich, Yaszvin, Princess Varvar...' he imagined. 'What am I?'
Or am I afraid, or did I give her protection to Tuskevich?
No matter what you look at, it's stupid, it's stupid...
And why would she put me in this position?" 'He said, waving his hand.'
By this move, he caught a table with celery water and a cognac graph on it, and almost pushed it.
He wanted to pick up, dropped it, and kicked his foot into the table and called.
'If you want to serve me,' he said to the incoming valet,'remember your business.
I don't want that to happen.
You have to clean it up.
The chamberlain, feeling innocent, wanted to make excuses, but when he looked at the barn, he realized in his face that all he had to do was keep quiet, and then quickly swerved down on the carpet and took out whole and broken drinks and bottles.
'It's none of your business, so let's go clean up the footman and make me a frack.'
Vronsky entered the theater at 2:30 a.m.
The show was in the middle.
The old capuldiner took off the fur coat and, after learning it, called it "your ladyship" and offered not to take the number, but simply to shout at Fedor.
There was no one in the light corridor but a capeldiner and two footmen with coats on their hands listening at the door.
Because of the fake door, there was a sound of a cautious staccato orchestra and a woman's voice, who was clearly speaking a musical phrase.
The door turned away by missing a sneaking capdeldiner, and the phrase that was coming to an end was clearly struck by the hearing of Wronsky.
But the door closed immediately, and Wronsky didn't hear the end of the phrase and the cadance, but he realized from the thunder of the applause behind the door that the cadence was over.
As he entered the brightly lit chandeliers and bronze gas horns of the hall, the noise continued.
On the stage, the singer, glittering with her shoulders and diamonds, bent and smiled, gathered with the help of a tenor, holding her hand, embarrassingly crawling over the frame of the bouquets, and approached the master in the middle of a shiny lipstick of hair, drawn with long hands through a frame of some thing -- and the public in the part, like in the floors, was fussing, reaching forward, screaming and clapping.
The capelmaster, on his high ground, helped in the transmission and recalibrated his white tie.
Wronsky entered the middle of the parther and stopped and looked back.
Less than ever, he's drawn attention to a familiar, familiar environment, to a stage, to this noise, to all this familiar, uninteresting, sandy herd of viewers in a bit full of theater.
The same as always, there were ladies in the couches with some officers in the backs of the bed; the same, God knows who, the women of different colours, and the coats, and the sutures; the same dirty crowd in the garden, and in the whole crowd, in the couches and in the first rows, there were forty real men and women.
These oasis were immediately noticed and immediately came into contact with them.
The act ended when he entered, and therefore, without entering his brother's bed, he went to the front row, and stopped at the Rampa with Serpukhovsky, who, when he bent his knee and knocked his heel into the Rampa, and saw him from afar, called out to him with a smile.
He hasn't seen Anna yet, he hasn't looked in her direction on purpose. But he knew where she was in the direction of view.
He looked undetected but did not look for her; in anticipation of the worst, he sought the eyes of Alexey Alexandrovich.
For his happiness, Alexei Alexandrovich wasn't in the theater this time.
'How little military there is left in you! 'Serpukhovsky said to him.' 'Certificate, artist, that's something.
'Yes, as I returned home, so I put on my fracturing,' replied Wronsky, smiling and slowly taking out the binoculars.
'That's what I'm jealous of.
When I return from abroad and put this on,' he touched the exelbants,' I feel sorry for my freedom.
Serpukhovsky long ago shoved his hand into his career, but he was still in love with him and was especially kind to him.
'It's too bad you're late for the first act.'
While listening in one ear, he moved binoculars from benoir to underwear and looked around the beds.
Next to the woman in the turban and the slutty old man who flashed in the glass of the moving binoculars, Wronsky suddenly saw Anna's head, proudly, incredibly beautiful and smiling in a frame of lace.
She was in the fifth benoir, 20 feet away from him.
She was sitting in the front, and she was a little spinning, and she said something to Yashvin.
The position of her head on beautiful and wide shoulders, and the calm-heated radiance of her eyes and all faces reminded him of her in the perfect way that he saw her at the ball in Moscow.
But that's not how he felt now.
There was nothing mysterious about his feelings for her, so her beauty, though it was more attractive to him than it had been before, now insulted him.
She didn't look at him, but Wronsky felt like she'd already seen him.
When he put the binoculars back in that direction, he noticed that Princess Varvar was especially red, unnaturally laughing, and constantly looking back at the next bed; and Anna, by folding the fan and knocking on their red velvet, looked at something, but did not see and apparently did not want to see what was happening in the next bed.
There was an expression on Yashvin's face that was on him when he lost.
After drowning, he shoved his left moustache deeper and deeper into his mouth and touched the same neighbor's bed.
There were Cartas in this bed on the left.
He knew them and knew that Anna knew them.
Cartasova, a thin, small woman, stood in her bed and, turning her back to Anna, put on a cape given to her by her husband.
Her face was pale and angry, and she said something excited.
Cartasov, a fat, lousy gentleman, constantly looking back at Anna, tried to calm his wife down.
When the wife came out, the husband hesitated for a long time, looking for Anna's eyes and apparently wanting to bow to her.
But Anna obviously didn't notice him on purpose, turning back, saying something to Yashwina's shaved head.
The cards came out without bowing, and the bed remained empty.
He did not understand exactly what had happened between Cartasov and Anna, but he realized that something humiliating to Anna had happened.
He understood that from what he had seen, and most of all from the face of Anna, who, he knew, had gathered her final powers to bear the role she had taken.
This role of external calm was quite satisfactory to her.
Those who did not know her and her circle did not hear all the expressions of condolence, outrage and surprise of women, what she allowed herself to appear in light and to appear so visible in her lace and beauty, they admired the calm and beauty of the woman and did not suspect that she felt the feelings of a man put out in front of a disgraceful pillar.
Knowing that something had happened but not knowing exactly what had happened, he felt a painful alarm and, hoping to learn something, went to his brother's bed.
On purpose, after choosing the opposite passage from Anna's bed, he came out and ran into his former regimental commander, who spoke to two acquaintances.
He heard Kareni's name spoken, and he observed the regimental commander rushing to speak loudly, looking at those who spoke.
'Ah, Vronsky!
When's the regiment?
We can't let you go without a pirate.
You are the most indigenous of us,' said the regimental commander.
'I will not make it, very sorry, until another time,' he said, and ran up the stairs into his brother's bed.
The old Countess, Wronsky's mother, with her steel slippers, was in her brother's bed.
Varya and Princess 40ina met him in the underwear corridor.
After she had guided Princess Forty to her mother, Varia gave her hand to her brother-in-law and immediately began to speak to him about what he was interested in.
She was as excited as he rarely saw her.
'I find it low and nasty, and Madame Cartasov had no right.
Madame Karenina...' she began.
'What is it?
I don't know.
'What, you didn't hear?
'You realize I'll be the last to hear about it.
'Is there an evil creature like this Kartasova?'
'What did she do?'
'My husband told me...
She insulted Karenna.
Her husband started talking to her through the bed, and Cartasova made a scene for him.
They say she said something offensive and came out.
'The Count, your man calls you,' said Princess 40in, looking out of the bed door.
'And I am waiting for you,' said his mother, laughingly smiling. 'I can't see you at all.
The son saw that she could not hold back a smile of joy.
'Hello, maman.
I came to you,' he said, cold.
'Why don't you go face la cour a madame Karenine?' 'She added it when Princess 40in stepped away.' == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man On ublie la Pattie pour elle.
'Maman, I asked you not to tell me about this,' he replied, frowning.
'I say what everyone says.
He answered nothing, and when he said a few words to Princess Forty, he went out.
At the door, he met his brother.
'Ah, Alexei! 'Broken' said his brother. 'This is disgusting!
Idiot, that's all...
I just wanted to go to her...
Let's go together.
Wronsky didn't listen to him.
He took a quick step down: he felt he had to do something, but he didn't know what.
Embarrassing her for putting herself and him in such a false position, along with pity for her suffering, bothered him.
He went downstairs and headed straight for Anna's benoir. Benoir had Stremov and talked to her:
'The Tenor are gone.
Le moule en est brise.
He bowed to her and stopped to say hello to Stremov.
'You seem to have come late and haven't heard the best aria,' said Anna Vronsky, laughing as he thought, looking at him.
'I am a bad treasurer,' he said, looking strictly at her.
'As Prince Yashwin,' she said, smiling, 'who finds Patty singing too loud. 'Thank you,' she said, in a small hand in a long glove raised up by the Vronian poster, and suddenly, in that moment, her beautiful face shivered.
She got up and went deep into the bed.
Observing that her bed remained empty for the next act, Wronsky, poking at the sound of the cavatine of the theater, came out of the parther and went home.
Anna was already home.
She was alone in the very outfit in which she was in the theater.
She sat on the first chair on the wall and looked in front of herself.
She looked at him and immediately accepted his position.
'Anna,' he said.
'You, you're guilty of everything! 'She cried with tears of despair and anger in her voice, rising up.'
'I asked you, I begged you not to go, I knew you'd be uncomfortable...'
'I hate it!' she cried. 'Awful!
No matter how long I live, I won't forget it.
She said it was embarrassing to sit next to me.
'The words of a foolish woman,' he said, 'but why take the risk, call...
'I hate your calm.
You shouldn't have led me to this.
If you loved me...
'Anna!
What's the matter with my love...
'Yes, if you loved me like I did, if you were tormented like I...' she said, looking at him with an expression of fear.
He felt sorry for her and was still pissed.
He assured her of his love because he saw that only one thing could comfort her now, and did not reproach her with words, but in his heart he reproached her.
And the confidences of love that he felt so vile that he was ashamed to speak them, she drank into herself and calmed down a little bit.
The next day, completely reconciled, they left for the village.
PART SIXTH
I
Daria Alexandrovna spent the summer with the children in Pokrovsk, with her sister Kitty Levina.
In her name, the house collapsed, and Levin and his wife persuaded her to spend the summer with them.
Stepan Arkadić very much approved the device.
He said that he was very sorry that the service prevented him from spending the summer with his family in the village, which would be his greatest happiness, and remaining in Moscow, he came to the village occasionally for a day and two.
In addition to Oblonsky with all the children and the governess, this summer an old princess visited Levini, who considered it her duty to keep an eye on her untested daughter, and was in such a position. In addition, Varenka, Kitty's foreign friend, fulfilled her promise to visit her when Kitty was married and visited her friend.
They were all relatives and friends of Levin's wife. And even though he loved them all, he felt a little sorry for his Lavinian peace and order, which was being stunned by this influx of "the Sherbat element," as he said to himself.
From his family there was one Koznyshev during the summer, but he was not a Lavinian but a goat's warehouse man, so the lion's spirit was completely destroyed.
A long-standing deserted house now had so many people that almost all the rooms were occupied, and almost every day the old Princess had to sit at a table, count everyone and plant the 13th grandson or granddaughter for a special table.
And for Kitty, who worked hard at the farm, there was a lot of trouble buying chickens, turkeys, ducks, which had a lot to do with summer meales of guests and children.
The whole family was sitting at lunch.
Dolly's kids with a governess and Vasenka made plans to go after mushrooms. Koznyshev, who enjoyed respect between all the guests for his mind and his studies, almost reaching out to worship, surprised everyone by interfering in the discussion of mushrooms.
'And take me with you.
I love to go after mushrooms very much,' he said, looking at Varenka, 'I find that this is a very good thing to do.
'Well, we are very happy,' replied Varenka, blushing.
Kitty had a big deal with Dolly.
The proposal by the scientist and clever Sergei Ivanovich to follow the mushrooms with Vasenka confirmed some of Kitty's recent assumptions that were very close to her.
She rushed to talk to her mother so her eyes wouldn't be seen.
After lunch, Sergei Ivanovic sat down with his cup of coffee by the living room window, continuing the conversation with his brother and looking at the door from which the children gathered for mushrooms were to come out.
Levin sat on the window near his brother.
Kitty stood by her husband, obviously waiting for the end of an uninteresting conversation to tell him something.
'You have changed a lot since you got married, and for the best,' said Koznyshev, smiling at Kitty and apparently with little interest in the conversation that started, 'but you remain faithful to your passion to defend the most paradoxical topics.
'Katha, it is not good for you to stand,' said her husband, moving her chair and looking substantially at her.
'Well, yes, indeed, at one time,' Koznyshev added when he saw the children running away.
In front of them all, with a gallop, in their tight stockings, swinging the basket and the hat of Sergei Ivanovich, Tanya ran directly at him.
She dared to run up to Sergei Ivanovich and shiny eyes so similar to her father's beautiful eyes, and gave Sergei Ivanovich his hat and pretended that she wanted to put on him with a humble and tender smile, softening her free will.
'Varynka is waiting,' she said, carefully putting her hat on him, at the smile of Sergei Ivanovich, when she saw that it was possible.
Varenka was standing in the door, dressed in a yellow hairdress with a white handkerchief tied on her head.
'I am coming, Varvar Andreevna,' said Koznyshev, drinking from a cup of coffee and picking up the pockets of the handkerchiefs and the cigar lady.
'What a beauty my Varenka!
Huh? 'Kiti said to her husband as soon as Sergei Ivanovic stood up.
She said it so that Sergei Ivanovic could hear what one apparently wanted. 'And how beautiful and noblely beautiful she is!
Varenka! 'Screaming Kitty,' you will be in the mill forest?
We'll come to you.
'You are adamantly forgetting your position, Kitty,' said the old princess, rushing out of the door. 'You can't scream like that.
Varenka, having heard Kitty's voice and her mother's reprimand, quickly approached Kisha with easy steps.
The speed of movement, the paint covering a lively face -- everything showed that there was something extraordinary going on in it.
Kitty knew it was extraordinary, and she followed her closely.
She now called Varenka only to bless her mentally for an important event that Kitty thought would take place this afternoon in the woods.
'Varynka, I will be very happy if one thing happens,' she whispered, kissing her.
'Are you coming with us? 'Confounded,' said Varenka Levin, pretending that she had not heard what had been said to her.
'I will go, but only to the gum, and I will stay there.'
'What kind of hunt do you want? 'Oh, Kitty said.'
'We need to take a look at the new furs and take them into account,' said Levin. 'Where will you be?
'On the terrace.
II
All the women's society gathered on the terrace.
They even liked to sit there this afternoon, but now there was also a case.
In addition to the stitching and knitting of pigs that everyone was busy with, jam was now boiled according to a new method for Agatha Mikhaylovna, without adding water.
Kitty introduced this new method used in their home. Agatha Mikhaylovna, previously assigned to this case, believing that what was being done in the house of the Levins could not have been bad, did pour water into strawberries and strawberries, claiming that this was not possible; she was guilty of it, and now the raspberry was boiled at all, and Agatha Mikhaylovna was to be convinced that the jam would come out well without water.
Agatha Mikhaylovna, with a heated and disheartened face, confused hair, and naked with her elbows with thin hands, shoved the pelvic round the roaster and stared at the raspberry with a deep desire that it should be frozen and not boiled.
The Princess felt that she, as the chief counselor for the raspberry bark, should be subjected to the anger of Agatha Mikhaylovna, tried to pretend that she was busy with others and was not interested in the malina, talking about an outsider, but she looked at the roast.
'I always buy dresses for girls on cheap goods,' said the Princess, continuing the conversation... 'Would you take off the foam now, sweetheart? 'She added, turning to Agatha Mikhaylovna. 'You don't have to do it yourself, and it's hot,' she stopped Kitty.
'I will do it,' said Dolly, and standing up, carefully began to drive a spoon on a sugar-smart, occasionally, to smash from the spoon that was attached to it, knocking it on a plate covered with coloured, yellow- pink, bleeding blood syrup, foam.
"How they're gonna lick it with tea!" 'She thought of her children, remembering how she herself, when she was a child, was surprised that the big ones didn't eat the best -- foam.
'Steve says it is much better to give money,' continued the interesting conversation that Dolly had begun about how best to give people, 'but...
'The money is as good as it can be! 'The Princess and Kitty spoke in one voice. 'They appreciate it.
'Well, I, for example, bought our Matrena Semenovna last year, not poplin, but something like that,' said the Princess.
'I remember she was on your birthday in it.
'Pretty pattern; so simple and noble.
I wanted to do it myself if she didn't.
It's like Varenka's. So sweet and cheap.
'Well, now I think I'm ready,' said Dolly, dropping the syrup off the spoon.
'When the pretzels are ready.
Another cook, Agatha Mikhaylovna.
'These flies! 'Agatha Michailovna said angryly.' 'The same will happen,' she added.
'Oh, how sweet he is, don't scare him! 'Suddenly Kitty, looking at the sparrow, who sat on the railing and turned the rods of the raspberry, began to bite him.'
'Yes, but you'd be far away from the roaster,' said the mother.
'A propos de Varenca,' said Kitty in French, as they always said, so that Agatha Mikhaylovna would not understand them. 'You know, maman, that I am waiting for a solution today for some reason.'
You know what that is.
How good it would be!
'But what a matchmaker! 'Yes,' said Dolly. 'How carefully and cleverly she leads them...'
'No, tell me, maman, what do you think?
'What do you think?'
He (he understood Sergei Ivanovich) could always make the first party in Russia; now he's not so young, but I know he is, and now many would...
She's very kind, but he could...
'No, you will understand, Mother, why it is not better for him and for her.
First, she's adorable! 'Oh, Kitty said, with one finger curled up.'
'He likes her very much, that's right,' confirmed Dolly.
'Then he takes such a position in light of the fact that he does not need any wealth or position in the light of his wife.
He needs one thing -- a good, sweet wife, calm.
'Yes, you can be calm with her,' confirmed Dolly.
'The third, that she may love him. And that's...
I mean, it would be so good!
I'm waiting for them to come out of the woods, and everything will be decided.
I'm gonna see it in the eyes.
I'd be so happy!
What do you think, Dolly?
'Don't worry. You don't have to worry at all,' said your mother.
'I'm not worried, Mother.
I think he's gonna propose now.
'Oh, it's as strange as when a man proposes...'
There was a barrier, and suddenly it would break through,' said Dolly, smiling thoughtfully and remembering her passing with Stepan Arkadych.
'Mom, how did Dad propose to you? 'Ask Kitty all of a sudden.'
'Nothing unusual was, very simple,' answered the Princess, but her face glowed from that memory.
'No, but how?
Did you still love him before you were allowed to talk?
Kitty was particularly adorable in that she and her mother were now able to talk, as well, about these most important issues in a woman's life.
'Of course she did; he visited us in the village.
'But how did you decide?' Mom?
'Do you think it's true that you made something up?
It's the same thing: it's decided by the eyes, by the smiles...
'How well you say it, Mother!
It was eyes and smiles,' confirmed Dolly.
'But what words did he say?
'What did Kostya say to you?
'He wrote with chalk.
It was amazing...
It's been a long time, isn't it? 'She said.'
And three women thought the same thing.
Kitty was the first to interrupt her silence.
She was reminded of the last winter before her marriage and of her passion for Vronsky.
'One thing... this is Varenka's old passia,' she said, in the natural connection of thought, remembering it. 'I wanted to tell Sergei Ivanovich one day to prepare him.
"They, all men," she added, "are terribly jealous of our past.
'Not everything,' said Dolly. 'You judge it by your husband.
He's still suffering from the memory of Bronsk.
Yeah?
Right?
'It is true,' said Kitty, smiling with her eyes thoughtfully.
'But I don't know,' said the Princess Mother for her mother's observation of her daughter, 'what was your last one that would bother him?'
That Vronsky was taking care of you?
It happens to every girl.
'Well, that's not what we're talking about,' said Kitty, blushing.
'No, let me,' the mother continued, 'and then you didn't want to let me talk to Vronski.
Remember?
'Ah, Mother! 'With the expression of suffering, Kitty said.
'Now you can't hold...'
Your relationship could not have gone further than it should. I would have called him myself.
But you, my soul, don't have to worry.
Please remember that and calm down.
'I am perfectly calm, maman.
'How happy it was for Kitty that Anna came,' said Dolly, 'and how unhappy it was for her.
Quite the contrary,' she added, stunned by her thought. 'Then Anna was so happy, and Kitty thought herself unhappy.
Quite the opposite!
I think about her a lot.
'There is someone to think about!
Nasty, disgusting woman, without a heart,' said the mother, who could not forget that Kitty had married Levin rather than Vronsky.
'What a shame to talk about it!' said Kitty, 'I don't think about it, and I don't want to think about it...
And I don't want to think,' she repeated, listening to her husband's familiar steps on the stairs of the terrace.
'What is it, and I don't want to think?' 'I asked Levin, entering the terrace.'
But no one answered him, and he didn't repeat the question.
'I am sorry that I have upset your women's kingdom,' he said, looking dishearteningly at everyone and realizing that they were talking about something they wouldn't say in front of him.
For a second, he felt that he shared Agatha Mikhaylovna's feelings, his frustration that raspberry was being boiled without water, and his influence was alien.
He smiled, however, and approached Kitty.
'Well, what? 'He asked her, thus looking at her, whom she was now approached by everyone.'
'Nothing, fine,' said Kitty smiling, 'how are you?
'They drive three times more than a cart.'
So, go pick up the kids?
I told you to mortgage.
'Well, you want Kitty on the line? 'The mother said with reproach.'
'Cause it's a step, Princess.
Levin never called the Princess maman, as his son - in - law did, and it was unpleasant to the Princess.
But Levin, even though he loved and respected the Princess, could not call her that without desecrating his feelings for his dead mother.
'Come with us, maman,' said Kitty.
'I don't want to look at this recklessness.'
'Well, I will walk.
'Cause I'm great. ' Kitty stood up, approached her husband and took his hand.
'Great, but everything is in order,' said the Princess.
'So, Agatha Mikhaylovna, is jam ready?' 'Said Levin, smiling at Agatha Mikhaylovna, and seeking to cheer her up.' 'Fine in a new way?'
'It must be good.
We think it's digested.
'It is better, Agatha Mikhaylovna, than it will, because the ice has now melted and there is no place to protect it,' said Kitty, immediately realizing her husband's intention and turning to the old woman with the same feeling. 'But your saltyness is what your mother says, and she has not eaten it anywhere,' she added by smiling and correcting it.
Agatha Mikhaylovna looked at Kitty angry.
'Do not comfort me, my lady.
I will look at you with him, and I am having fun,' she said, and this rude expression with him, not with them, touched Kitty.
'Come with us for the mushrooms, you will show us the places. 'Agatha Mikhaylovna smiled, shook the sex, as it were, 'and I would be happy to be angry with you, but you can't.'
'Please do, on my advice,' said the old princess, 'in addition to the jam, put down a piece of paper and moisten with rum, and there will never be mold without ice.
Kitty was particularly pleased to be alone with her husband because she noticed how the shadow of sadness ran through his face so alive that he entered the terrace and asked what had been said, and he was not answered.
As they walked ahead of others, and went out of sight of the house on a road that was rolled up, dusty, and shrivelled with rusty ears and grains, she leaned more firmly on his hand and pressed it toward her.
He had already forgotten a moment of unpleasant experience and felt alone with her now that the thought of her pregnancy had not left him for a moment, yet a new and joyful, completely pure pleasure from feeling close to the woman he loved.
There was nothing to say, but he wanted to hear the sound of her voice, just like the look that had changed since she was pregnant.
In his voice, as in his eyes, there was gentleness and seriousness, such as that of people who were constantly focused on a matter of their own.
'So you won't get tired?
Stretch more,' he said.
'No, I am so happy to be alone with you, and I confess, however well I feel with them, that I feel sorry for our winter evenings alone.'
'That was good, which is even better.
Both are better,' he said, holding her hand.
'Do you know what we were talking about when you came in?
'The jam?'
'Yes, and jam; but then how they propose.'
'Ah! 'Said Levin, listening more to the sound of her voice than to the words she had spoken, always thinking about the road that was now in the woods, and bypassing the places where she might go wrong.'
'And about Sergei Ivanović and Varenka?'
Have you noticed?
I very much wish that,' she continued. 'What do you think of that?' 'And she looked into his face.
'I don't know what to think,' answered Levin smiling. 'Ah, Sergei is very strange to me in this regard.
I told you...
'Yes, that he was in love with this girl who died...'
'It was when I was a child; I know it by tradition.
I remember him then.
He was amazingly nice.
But since then, I've been watching him with women: he's kind, he likes some, but you feel like they're just people to him, not women.
'Yes, but now with Varenka...
I think there's something...
'Maybe there is...'
But he needs to be known...
He's a special, amazing man.
He lives the same spiritual life.
He's too pure and tall a man's soul.
'How?
Would that humiliate him?
'No, but he is so used to living the same spiritual life that he cannot reconcile with reality, and Varenka is still a reality.
Levin was now used to speaking his mind with courage, not letting himself wear it into precise words; he knew that the wife would understand what he was going to say in such loving moments as now, with a hint, and she understood him.
'Yes, but it is not as real as I am; I understand that he would never love me.
She's all spiritual...
'No, he loves you so much, and I'm always so pleased that my love for you...'
'Yes, he is kind to me, but...
'But not as with Nikolejka the deceased... you fell in love with each other,' Levin finished. 'Why not say?' 'He added.' 'I sometimes blame myself: it will end with what you forget.'
Ah, what a terrible and adorable man...
Yeah, so what were we talking about? 'Be silent,' said Levin.
'You think he can't fall in love,' said Kitty, translating into her own language.
'Not that he can't fall in love,' said Levin smiling, 'but he doesn't have the weakness he needs...
I've always been jealous of him, and now that I'm so happy, I'm still jealous.
'Are you jealous that he can't fall in love?'
'I envy that he is better than me,' said Levin smiling. 'He does not live for himself.
He's got his whole life in the line of duty.
That's why he can be calm and happy.
'And you? 'with a laughing, lovely smile,' said Kitty.
She could not express the course of thought that made her smile; but the final conclusion was that her husband, who admired her brother and humiliated himself before him, was insincere.
Kitty knew that his insincerity came from his love for his brother, from his sense of condolence for being too happy, and especially from his lack of desire to be better,' she loved it in him and therefore smiled.
'And you?
What's wrong with you? 'She asked with the same smile.'
Her distrust of his displeasure made him happy, and he unconsciously challenged her to give reasons for her mistrust.
'I am happy, but displeased with myself...' he said.
'So how can you be displeased if you're happy?'
'I mean, how do I tell you?'
I don't want anything but to make sure you don't trip.
Oh, you can't jump like that!--he interrupted his conversation by reproaching her for making too fast a move across the trail of bitches. 'But when I think of myself and compare myself with others, especially my brother, I feel bad.
'What's the matter? &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;and Kitty continued with the same smile. 'Aren't you doing it for others, too?'
And your hooters and your farm and your book?
'No, I feel especially now: you are guilty,' he said, holding her hand, 'that this is not the case.
I'm doing it this way, a little bit.
If I could love this whole thing like I love you... or I've been doing my homework lately.
'Well, what do you think of Dad?' 'Ask Kitty. 'What, and he's bad because he didn't do anything for a common cause?'
'He? --no.
But you have to have that simplicity, clarity, kindness, like your father, and do I have that?
I don't do and I suffer.
You've done all this.
When you were gone and you weren't there yet,' he said, looking at her stomach, which she understood, 'I put all my strength on the case; now I can't, and I'm ashamed; I'm doing exactly as a lesson, I'm pretending...
'Well, would you like to trade with Sergei Ivanich now? 'Oh, Kitty said.' 'Would you like to do this common cause and love this chosen lesson like him, and that's all?'
'Of course not,' said Levin. 'But I am so happy that I do not understand.'
You think he's gonna propose now? 'He added, silently.'
'And I think not.'
I'm the only one who really wants to.
Wait. 'She leaned and ripped off a wild chamomile on the edge of the road. 'Well, count: he will, he will not propose,' she said, giving him a flower.
'He will, he will not,' said Levin, cutting off the white narrow, expensive petals.
'No, no! 'When she grabbed his hand, Kitty stopped him, anxiously following his fingers. 'You ripped two off.
'Well, this little one doesn't count,' said Levin, ripping off a short little petal. 'So the ruler caught up with us.
'Aren't you tired, Kitty? 'Screamed the Princess.'
'Nothing.'
'Sit down if the horses are still, and step away.'
But you shouldn't have sat down. It was close, and everyone walked.
IV
Varenka in her white scarf on her black hair, surrounded by the children, kindly and amusingly busy with them, and apparently excited by the possibility of an explanation with a man she likes, was very attractive.
Koznyshev walked next to her and couldn't stop looking at her.
Looking at her, he remembered all the nice speeches he heard from her, all the things he knew about her, and more and more aware that the feeling he felt about her was something special that he had experienced a long time ago and only once, in his first youth.
The sense of joy from her closeness increased to the point where, by putting into her basket what he had found on a thin root with the edges of the berze mushroom, he looked into her eyes and, after seeing the paint of the joyous and frightened excitement that had covered her face, was embarrassed and smiled at her silently with a smile that spoke too much.
"If so," he said to himself, "I must think and decide, not give up like a boy, the passion of the moment."
'I will now go, independently of everyone, to collect mushrooms, or my acquisitions are invisible,' he said, and went one from the pond of the forest, where they walked on silky low grass between rare old berets, into the middle of the forest, where the trunks of the axis were gray between the white berets and the bushes of the peanuts were dark.
Koznyshev, knowing that he was not being seen, stopped in full color with his pink red earrings.
It was completely quiet around him.
Only at the top of the berets under which he stood like a horde of bees, were flies silently sounded, and the voices of the children were sometimes heard.
Suddenly, near the edge of the forest, Varenka's counteraltic voice called Grisha, and a happy smile appeared on the face of Sergei Ivanovic.
In recognition of that smile, Koznyshev shook his head against his fortune and delivered the cigar and started smoking.
He hasn't been able to light a match on the birch trunk for a long time.
The soft film of the white bark covered the phosphorous, and the fire was black.
Finally, one of the matches lit up, and the scented smoke of a cigar swirling with a large tablecloth definitely reached forward and up above the bush into the birch branches.
In keeping with his eyes on the strip of smoke, Koznyshev took a quiet step, thinking about his condition.
"Why not? 'He thought.' 'If it were a flash or a passion, if I felt only that passion -- it was a mutual attraction (I can say mutual), but it would feel that it ran counter to the entire warehouse of my life, if I felt that by giving in to it I was changing my calling and duty... but it was not.'
One thing I can say against is that when I lost Marie, I told myself that I would remain faithful to her memory.
One thing I can say against my feelings...
"It is important," said Sergei Ivanovic, feeling, however, that this consideration could not be of any importance to him personally, except to the detriment of his poetic role in the eyes of others.
"But besides that, no matter how much I look for, I'm not gonna find anything to say against my feelings.
If I had chosen one mind, I couldn't have found anything better."
As much as he remembered the women and girls he knew, he couldn't remember a girl who would connect everything to such a degree, exactly all the qualities that he, in cold reasoning, wanted to see in his wife.
She had all the beauty and freshness of youth, but she was not a child, and if she loved him, she loved him consciously, as a woman should love: it was one thing.
Another: Not only was she far from secularism, but she apparently had an aversion to light, but she knew the light and had all the techniques of the woman of a good society, without which Sergei Ivanovic had an incredible girlfriend of life.
Third, she was religious, and not as a child unaccountably religious and good, such as Kitty; but her life was based on religious beliefs.
Even before the small things, Sergei Ivanovov found in her everything he wanted from his wife: she was poor and alone, so she would not bring with her many relatives and their influence into her husband's house, as he saw on Kitty, but would owe everything to her husband, as he had always wanted for his future family life.
And this girl, who brought all these qualities together, loved him.
He was modest, but he couldn't help but see it.
And he loved her.
One argument against it was his years.
But his breed is durable, he has no gray hair, he hasn't been given 40 years, and he remembers that Varenka said that only in Russia do people in 50 think they're old, and that in France a 50-year-old man thinks he's Dans la force de l'age, and a 40-year-old thinks he's un jeune home.
But what was the count of years when he felt like a young soul, as he was 20 years ago?
Was it not youth that he felt now when, on the other side again on the edge of the forest, he saw in the bright light of the rays of the sun a graceful figure of Varenka, in a yellow dress and a basket with a light step past the trunk of an old birch, and when that impression of Varenka's view merged with that which struck him with its beauty, a view of the rayed yellow oatmeal field and behind the field of a far old forest, baked with yellowishness, melted in blue?
His heart was filled with joy.
His sense of condescension reached him.
He felt he had made up his mind.
Varenka, who had just sat down to lift the mushroom, moved up and looked back.
When Koznyshev left the cigar, he took decisive steps towards it.
V
"Varvar Andreevna, when I was very young, "I formed the ideal of a woman I would love and I would be happy to call my wife.
I've lived a long life and now I've met you for the first time what I've been looking for.
I love you and offer you my hand."
Koznyshev said it to himself when he was ten feet away from Varenka.
Laying down on her knees and protecting the mushroom from Grisha with her hands, she called for a little Mary.
'This way, this way! Little ones!
A lot!-- she spoke with her sweet thoracic voice.
When she saw Sergei Ivanovic coming, she did not rise up or change her position; but everything told him that she felt his approach and rejoiced with him.
'What, did you find anything?' 'She asked, because of the white handkerchief, turning her beautiful, quietly smiling face toward him.'
'None,' said Koznyshev. 'And you?
She didn't answer him, busy with the kids around her.
'And this one, by the branch,' she pointed out to the little Mary, the little raw woman, who had been cut across her serrated pink hat with a dry grass from which she had climbed.
She got up when Masha, breaking into two white halves, raised the cheesecake. 'It reminds me of my childhood,' she added, retreating from the children near Sergei Ivanovich.
They took several steps in silence.
Varenka saw what he wanted to say; she knew what she was dying of the excitement of joy and fear.
They went so far that no one could hear them anymore, but he still hasn't started talking.
It was better for Varenka to keep quiet.
After silence, it was easier to say what they wanted to say than after talking about mushrooms; but against their will, as if by accident, Varenka said:
'So you didn't find anything?
It's always smaller in the middle of the forest, though.
Koznyshev sighed and answered nothing.
He was upset that she was talking about mushrooms.
He wanted to turn her back to the first words she had said about her childhood; but, as if against his will, after a few minutes of silence, he made a comment on her last words.
'I have only heard that whites are mostly on the edge, although I can't tell the difference between white.'
A few more minutes later, they walked further away from the children and were completely alone.
Varenka's heart beat so that she heard his blows and felt red, pale, and red again.
To be the wife of a man like Koznyshev, after her position with Mrs. Stahl, she seemed to be on top of happiness.
Besides, she was pretty sure she was in love with him. And now it had to be decided.
She was scared. It was scary what he was gonna say and what he wasn't gonna say.
Now or never, Koznyshev felt the same way.
Everything in the eyes, in the lumber, in the eyes of Varenka, showed a painful wait.
Koznyshev saw it and felt sorry for it.
He felt even that not saying anything now meant insulting her.
In his mind, he quickly repeated every argument in favour of his decision.
He also repeated to himself the words by which he wanted to express his proposal; but instead, according to some unexpected thought, he suddenly asked:
'What is the difference between white and birch?
Varenka's lips shivered when she answered:
'There's almost no difference in the hat, but at the root.'
And as soon as those words were spoken, and he and she realized that the matter was over, that what was to be said would not be said, and their anxiety, which had come to this very high level, became quiet.
'Berez mushroom -- its root is like a two-day non-shaved brunette beard,' said Koznyshev.
'Yes, it is true,' answered Varenka smiling, and the direction of their walk changed.
They began to approach the children.
Varenka felt pain and shame, but also felt relief.
When Koznyshev returned home and went through all the arguments, he found out what he was thinking wrong.
He couldn't change Marie's memory.
'Silence, children, quiet! 'Even cried angryly at Levin's children, becoming in front of his wife to protect her when a crowd of children screamed with joy to meet them.
After the children came out of the woods and Koznyshev and Varenka.
Kitty did not need to ask Varenka; she understood in a calm and somewhat embarrassed way that her plans had not come true.
'Well, what? 'Ask her husband when they returned home again.'
'Don't take it,' said Kitty, with a smile and a manner of speaking, reminding her father that she was often pleased to see Levin in it.
'How does he not take it?'
'This way,' she said, taking her husband's hand, raising her to her mouth and touching her with unopened lips. 'It's like the Architect's hand is kissed.
'Who doesn't take it from?' 'He said, laughing.'
'Both of them.
I'm gonna have to go like this.
'The men are on their way...'
'No, they didn't.
VI
During the children's tea, the big ones sat on the balcony and spoke as if nothing had happened, although everyone, and in particular Sergei Ivanovic and Varenka, knew very well what had happened, although it was a negative but very important thing.
They felt both the same feelings as a student after a failed exam, who remained in the same class or permanently expelled from the institution.
Everyone here, feeling that something had happened, was talking a lot about foreign subjects.
Levin and Kitty felt particularly happy and loving this evening.
And that they were happy with their love, it was a nasty hint of those who wanted and could not, and they were ashamed.
'Remember my word: Alexandre will not come,' said the old Princess.
They were waiting this evening from Stepan Arkadyić's train, and the old prince wrote that maybe he would come.
'And I know why,' the Princess continued,' he says that young people should be left alone for the first time.
'Yes, Dad has left us already.'
We didn't see him,' said Kitty. 'And how young are we?'
We're so old.
'Only if he does not come, and I will say goodbye to you children,' said the Princess, with a sad sigh.
'Come on, Mother!' both daughters attacked her.
'What does it feel like?'
'Cause now...
And all of a sudden, the old Princess's voice trembled.
The daughters shut up and looked at each other.
"Maman will always find something sad for himself," they said with that look.
They didn't know that, as well as the Princess had her daughter, as much as she felt she needed to be here, she was painfully sad for herself and for her husband since they married the last daughter they loved and the family nest was empty.
'What do you want, Agatha Mikhaylovna? 'Ask Kitty suddenly stopped with a mysterious view and a significant face of Agatha Mikhaylovna.
'For dinner.'
'Well, that's great,' said Dolly, 'you handle it, and I'll go with Grisha and repeat his lesson.
'Cause he didn't do anything today.
'This is my lesson!
No, Dolly, I'm gonna go upstairs,' said Levin.
Grisha, already enrolled in the gymnasium, was scheduled to repeat lessons in the summer.
Daria Alexandrovna, who was still studying Latin with her son in Moscow when she came to Levin's, made it a rule for herself to repeat with him, even once a day, the most difficult of arithmetic and Latin.
Levin volunteered to replace her; but the mother, having heard Levin's lesson once and having noticed that this was not done in the way the teacher rehearsed in Moscow, having hesitated and tried not to insult Levin, strongly told him that it was necessary to follow the book as a teacher, and that she would do it again.
Levin was also pissed at Stepan Arkadiyić for not being careless, but at his mother for observing a teaching in which she understood nothing, and at the teachers for teaching children so badly; but his sister-in-law promised to teach the teaching as she wanted.
And he continued to study with Grisha, not in his own way, but in his book, and therefore reluctantly and often forgetting the time of the lesson.
That's what happened today.
'No, I will go, Dolly, you sit,' he said. 'We will do everything in order, according to the book.'
Except when Steve gets here, we'll go hunting, then I'll miss it.
And Levin went to Grisha.
That's what Varenka Kitty said.
And in the well - arranged house of the Levins, Varenka was able to be of use. 'I will order dinner, and you are sitting down,' she said, and stood up for Agatha Mikhaylovna.
'Yeah, yeah, right, they didn't find any chickens. Then my...' said Kitty.
'We will judge with Agatha Mikhaylovna. 'And Varenka fled with her.
'What a lovely girl! 'The Princess said.'
'Not cute, maman, but adorable as ever.'
'So you're waiting for Stepan Arkadyić now? 'Oh, Koznyshev said, obviously not wanting to continue talking about Varenka. 'It is difficult to find two brother-in-laws less like your husbands,' he said with a subtle smile. 'One moving, living only in society, like a fish in water; the other, our Kostya, alive, fast, sensitive to everything, but as soon as the society is dead, or the fish on earth beats like a wild fish.'
'Yes, he is very careless,' said the Princess, turning to Sergei Ivanovic. 'It was I who wanted to ask you to talk to him that she (she pointed out to Kitty) could not stay here, but had to come to Moscow.
He says to discharge a doctor...
'Maman, he will do it, he will agree to it all,' said Kitty, with annoyance at her mother for calling Judge Sergei Ivanovich in this case.
In the middle of their conversation in the alley, there was a sniffing of horses and the sound of the wheels on the ground.
Before Dolly could get up to meet her husband, like downstairs, from the window of the room in which Grisha was studying, Levin jumped out and sat down Grisha.
'This is Steve!' said Levin from under the balcony. 'We're done, Dolly, don't be afraid! 'He added, and as a boy he went running toward the crew.'
'Is, ea, id, ejus, ejus, ejus,' cried Grisha, jumping up the alley.
'And someone else.
That's right, Dad! 'Screamed Levin at the entrance to the alley. 'Kiti, don't walk in the cool stairwell, but round.'
But Levin was wrong to think of the man sitting in the wheelchair as an old prince.
When he approached the wheelchair, he saw a handsome young man in a Scottish cap with long ends of ribbon back, not the Prince, near Stepan Arkadić.
It was Vasenka Veslovsky, Sherbatsky &apos; s second cousin -- Peterburg and Moscow &apos; s brilliant young man, "the finest little and passionate hunter," as he was introduced by Stepan Arkadych.
Not embarrassed by the disappointment he had caused in replacing the old prince, Veslovsky said hi to Levin, reminding him of his previous acquaintance, and by taking him into Grishu's wheelchair, he carried him through a ponter brought with him by Stepan Arkadić.
Levin did not sit in the wheelchair, but went from behind.
He was a little upset that the old prince he knew had not come, the more he loved him, and that this Vasenka Veslovsky, a complete stranger, appeared.
He found it all the more foreign and redundant that when Levin approached the porch, which had a busy crowd of large and children, he saw that Vasenka Veslovsky, with a particularly sweet and gallant view, kissed Kitty's hand.
'And we cousins with your wife, and old acquaintances as well,' said Vasenka Veslovsky, shaking Levin's hand firmly again.
'Do you have any game?' 'I turned to Levin, Stepan Arkadić, who barely had time for everyone to say hello.' 'We have the most violent intentions with him.
Well, maman, they haven't been to Moscow since.
Well, Tanya, here you go!
Take it out, please, in the back of the wheelchair,' he said to all sides. 'How refreshing you are, Dollenka,' he said to his wife, kissing her hand again, holding her in his hand, and talking at each other's top.
Levin, a minute ago, who was in the most fun mood, now looked down at everyone, and he didn't like everything.
"Who was he kissing with those lips yesterday?" 'He thought, looking at the tenderness of Stepan Arkadyić with his wife.'
He looked at Dolly, and he didn't like her either.
"She doesn't believe his love.
So why is she so happy?
That's disgusting!" 'I thought Levin.'
He looked at the Princess, who was so sweet to him a minute ago, and he didn't like the manner in which she welcomed Vasenka with his ribbons as she was to her house.
Even Koznyshev, who also went out on the porch, seemed distasteful to him by the pretense friendship with which he met Stepan Arkadyić, while Levin knew that his brother had neither loved nor respected Oblonsky.
Both Varenka and she were disgusted by the way she and her kind of sainte nituche met this gentleman, when all she thought about was getting married.
And most repulsive of all was Kitty's way of giving in to the tone of fun with which this gentleman, as a feast for himself and for all, looked at her coming to the village, and especially unpleasing was the particular smile she responded to his smiles.
When they spoke loudly, they all went into the house: but as soon as they all sat down, Levin turned and went out.
Kitty saw something happen to her husband.
She wanted to get a minute alone to talk to him, but he rushed away from her, saying he needed to go to the office.
Long ago, he didn't seem as important as he was today.
'They have all the holidays there,' he thought, 'but things aren't festive, which aren't waiting, and without which you can't live.'
VII
Levin returned home only when they sent him out for dinner.
Kitty stood on the stairs with Agatha Mikhaylovna, consulting about wine for dinner.
'What do you think you're doing?
Give me what's normal.
'No, Steve doesn't drink...'
Kostya, wait, what's wrong with you? 'Kiti spoke in time for him, but he took great steps before waiting for her, and immediately entered into a lively conversation, which was supported there by Vasenka Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadić.
'Well, shall we go hunting tomorrow?' 'Stepan Arkadić said.'
'Please go,' said Veslovsky, sitting side by side on another chair and pressing his fat foot under him.
'I'm very pleased, let's go.
Have you hunted this year? 'Said Levin of Veslovsky, looking closely at his foot, but pretending to have the pleasure that Kitty knew in him, and which did not follow him.' 'Dupley, I don't know if we're gonna find a lot of beckas.
You just have to go early.
Aren't you gonna get tired?
Aren't you tired, Steve?
'Am I tired?
I've never been tired.
Let's not sleep all night!
Let's go for a walk.
'In fact, let's not sleep! Great! 'Veslovsky confirmed.
'Oh, we are sure of that that you may not sleep or give to others,' said Dolly to her husband with a slight irony with which she now almost always treated her husband. 'And I think it's time...'
I'm gonna go, I'm not having dinner.
'No, you sit down, Dollenka,' said Stepan Arkadych, moving to her side at the big table at which they had dinner. 'I'll tell you how much more!
'That's right, nothing.
'You know, Veslovsky was at Anna's.
And he's on his way back.
'Cause they're only 70 yards away from you.
And I'm gonna go, too.
Veslovsky, come here!
Vasenka went to the ladies and sat next to Kitty.
'Oh, please tell me, have you been to her?
How is she? 'Daria Alexandrovna turned to him.
Levin stayed at the other end of the table and continued to speak to the Princess and Varenka, and saw a lively and mysterious conversation between Stepan Arkadyić, Dolly, Kitty, and Veslovsky.
Not only was there a mysterious conversation, but he saw in his wife's face an expression of a serious feeling when she, while keeping her eyes open, looked into Vasenka's beautiful face, something lively to tell.
'It's very good for them,' said Vasenka about Vronski and Anna. 'I certainly do not judge, but in their house you feel like a family.
'What do they intend to do?'
'I think they want to go to Moscow for the winter.'
'How good it would be for us to move in with them!
When are you gonna go? 'Stepan Arkadić asked Vasenka.
'I will spend July with them.
'Are you going?' 'Stepan Arkadić turned to his wife.
'I wanted to go a long time ago, and I will certainly go,' said Dolly. 'I feel sorry for her, and I know her.
She's a beautiful woman.
I'm gonna go alone when you leave, and I'm not gonna embarrass anyone.
And even better without you.
'And fine,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'And you, Kitty?
'I am?
Why would I go? 'In the heat, Kitty said. And she looked back at her husband.
'Do you know Anna Arkadievna? 'I asked her Veslovsky.' 'She is a very attractive woman.
'Yes,' even more red, she answered Veslovsky, stood up and approached her husband.
'So you're going hunting tomorrow? 'She said.'
His jealousy in those few minutes, especially the roman that covered her cheeks when she spoke to Veslovsky, had already gone far.
Now, listening to her words, he understood them in his own way.
As weird as it was for him to think about it, it now seemed clear to him that if she asked him if he was going hunting, she was only interested in knowing if he would give it to Vasenka Veslovsky, whom he thought she was already in love with.
'Yes, I will go,' he answered with his own nasty voice.
'No, you'd better stay tomorrow, 'or Dolly didn't see her husband at all, but go the day after tomorrow,' said Kitty.
The meaning of Kitty's words has now been translated by Levin: "Don't separate me from him.
I don't care if you leave, but let me enjoy the company of this lovely young man."
'Oh, if you want, we'll be there tomorrow,' answered Levin with special pleasure.
Vasenka, in the meantime, had no idea of the suffering caused by his presence, followed Kitty up from the table and followed her with a smiling, gentle look and followed her.
Levin saw that look.
He turned pale and couldn't take a breath any minute.
"How can I afford to look at my wife like that?" 'Cause there's a whirlwind in it.
'Tomorrow?
Let's go, please,' said Vasenka, sitting on a chair and turning her leg around again in his habit.
Levin's jealousy has gone even further.
He's already seen himself as a cheated husband who his wife and lover need only to give them comfort and pleasure...
But despite that, he kindly and kindly questioned Vasenka about his hunting, gun, boots, and agreed to go tomorrow.
For Levin's happiness, the old Princess ended his suffering by standing up and advising Kitty to go to bed.
But there was no escape without another suffering for Levin.
By saying goodbye to the mistress, Vasenka wanted to kiss her hand again, but Kitty, blushing, with the naive rudeness for which her mother spoke, said, repelling her hand:
'That's not what we do.
In Levin's eyes, she was guilty of allowing such a relationship and was even more guilty of making it so awkward that she did not like it.
'What a dream to sleep! 'Stepan Arkadić said, after drinking a few glasses of wine at dinner, who had come into his sweetest and most poetic mood.' 'Look, look, Kitty,' he said, pointing to the moon rising because of its stick, 'what a beauty!'
Veslovsky, that's when the serenade.
You know, he's got a nice voice, and he and I got along.
He brought with him beautiful novels, new two.
With Varvara Andreevna, I'd like to sing.
When everyone was separated, Stepan Arkadić walked with Veslovsky on the alley for a long time and heard their voices singing at the new novel.
Listening to these voices, Levin sat on a chair in his wife's bedroom and kept silent on her questions about what was with him; but when she had finally smiled shyly, she said, "Did you not like something with Veslovsky?" 'He threw up, and he said everything; what he said insulted him and therefore further annoyed him.'
He stood before her with glittering eyes under his eyebrows and pressed strong hands to his chest, as if he were working hard to hold himself back.
The expression of his face would have been harsh and even cruel if he had not, at the same time, expressed the suffering that had touched him.
His cheekbones were shaking and his voice was breaking.
'You realize I'm not jealous: it's a nasty word.'
I can't be jealous and believe that...
I can't tell you how I feel, but it's awful...
I'm not jealous, but I'm insulted, humiliated by the fact that someone dares to think, dares to look at you with such eyes...
'What kind of eyes?' 'Said Kitty, trying to remember as faithfully as possible all the speeches and gestures of this evening and all their shades.
Deep down, she found that there was something just the minute he followed her to the other end of the table, but she didn't dare admit it even to herself, and she didn't want to tell him that and increase his suffering with it.
'And what could be attractive about me, who am I?'
'Ah!' he cried, grabbing his head. 'You wouldn't say!'
So if you were attractive...
'No, no, Kostya, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 'She spoke with a painful and condescending expression looking at him. 'Well, what can you think?'
When I don't have people, I don't, I don't!
You want me not to see anyone?
At first, she was insulted by his jealousy; she was disappointed that the slightest entertainment, and the most innocent, was forbidden to her; but now she would willingly sacrifice not so little, but all for his peace, in order to save him from the suffering he had experienced.
'You understand the horror and commism of my position,' he continued with a desperate whisper, 'that he is in my house, that he has done nothing indecent, in fact, because he has done nothing but this unhappiness and the pressing of his legs.
He thinks it's the best tone, and that's why I have to be nice to him.
'But, Kostya, you are exaggerating,' said Kitty, in the heart, rejoicing at the power of love for her now expressed in his jealousy.
'The worst part is that you are what you always are, and now that you are such a saint to me, we are so happy, so especially happy, and suddenly such a piece of shit...'
No shit, why am I fighting him?
I don't care about him.
But what's mine, your happiness?
'You know, I understand why it happened,' Kitty began.
'Why? Why?
'I saw the way you looked when we talked at dinner.
'Yes, yes!' said Levin terrifiedly.
She told him what they were talking about. And by telling it, she was suffocating with excitement.
Levin shut up, then looked at her pale, frightened face, and suddenly grabbed his head.
'Katha, I have tormented you!
Sweetheart, I'm so sorry!
This is crazy!
Katya, it's all my fault.
And was it such a stupid thing to suffer?
'No, I feel sorry for you.
'Me?
Me?
What me? Crazy...
What are you for?
It's awful to think that anyone else can upset our happiness.
'Of course it is offensive...'
'No, on the contrary, I will leave him to us on purpose all summer, and I will break up with him kindly,' said Levin, kissing her hands. 'You'll see.
Tomorrow...
Yeah, really, we're going tomorrow.
VIII
On the other day, the ladies had not yet stood up as the hunting crew, the skating and the cart were standing at the door, and Laska, as early as the morning as she realized that she was going on a hunting trip, climbing and jumping, sat on the skating rollers by the counter, excitedly and displeased to stare at the door that the hunters still hadn't come out of.
The first came out of Vasenka Veslovsky in his big new boots, reaching up to half the thick legs, in a green blouse, tied up with a new, skin-smelling amphibian, and in his ribbon cap, and with an English brand-new gun with no anatopes and blindfolds.
Laska jumped up to him, welcomed him, jumped, asked him in her own way if they would come out soon, but without an answer from him, she returned to her post and froze again, turning her head sideways and guarding one ear.
Finally, the door turned upside down, flew out, spinning and turning in the air, Krak, Stepan Arkadyić's half-dead punter, and Stepan Arkadić himself came out with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth.
"Tubo, Tubo, Crack!" 'He groaned fondly at the dog, who poked his paws on his abdomen and chest, clinging with them to the lamb.'
Stepan Arkadić was wearing pistons and panties and a short coat.
There was a broken hat on the head, but the gun of the new system was a toy, and the lamb and the amplifier, though worn out, were the best of kindness.
Vasenka Veslovsky did not understand before this true hunting chastity -- to be in the rods, but to have a hunting gear of the best quality.
He realized that now, looking at Stepan Arkadyić, in these rods of his glittering elegance, fed and merry Baroque figure, and decided that he was going to do that for the next hunt.
'Well, what about our master?' 'He asked.'
'The young wife,' said Stepan Arkadić, smiling.
'Yes, and so lovely.'
'He was already dressed.
That's right, he ran to her again.
Stepan Arkadych guessed.
Levin went back to his wife to ask her again if she had forgiven him for his foolishness yesterday, and then to ask her to be careful, for Christ's sake. The important thing is that the kids would be further away -- they can always push.
Then I had to get her to confirm that she wasn't mad at him for leaving for two days, and I had to ask her to send him a note tomorrow morning with a top man, to write just two words, just so he could know she was safe.
Kitty, as always, was hurt to break up with her husband for two days, but when she saw his lively figure, which seemed particularly large and strong in hunting boots and white blues, and some radiance of hunting excitement she forgot because of his joy and weight-- lo said goodbye to him.
'It's my fault, gentlemen! 'He said, running to the porch.' 'Has breakfast been served?'
What's with the redhead on the right?
Well, whatever.
Laska, come on, let's go sit down!
'Let him enter the blank herd,' he turned to the cattleman, waiting for him at the porch, asking about the wolfs. 'It's my fault, there's another villain coming.
Levin jumped from the skating on which he had already sat, to the closet, with a saddle that had gone to the porch.
'You didn't come to the office yesterday, now you're holding me.
Well?
'Observe another turn.
Just add three steps. And we're gonna get it right.
It's gonna be a lot more dead.
'You would have listened to me,' answered Levin with shame. 'I said, set thetas and then take steps.'
You can't fix it now.
Do as I told you to. Take a new one.
The thing was, in the building of the fligel, a rowman ruined the ladder by cutting it off separately and keeping it up, so all the steps were rolling when it was put in place.
Now the crewman wanted to add three steps by leaving the same ladder.
'There will be much better.
'Where's she gonna go with three steps?
'Give me mercy,' said the carpenter with a contemptible smile. 'The tattoo will come out.'
As he would go downstairs,' he said with a convincing gesture,' go, go and come.
'Cause three steps will add to the length... where will it come from?
'That's how she went from the bottom to the bottom,' said the roommate.
'She will come under the ceiling and into the wall.
'Give me mercy.'
I mean, go downstairs. Go, go and come.
Levin took out the schompol and started drawing his ladder in dust.
'Well, see?
'As you command,' said the carpenter, suddenly with his eyes brightened and, apparently, having finally understood the matter. 'I guess I'm gonna have to cut a new one.
'Well, do as you are commanded!' said Levin, sitting on the rinks. 'Come on!
Here's your dog, Philip!
Levin now felt, leaving behind all his family and economic concerns, such a strong sense of joy in life and expectation that he did not want to speak.
In addition, he felt the sense of concentrated excitement that every hunter was experiencing as he approached the scene.
If anything was on his mind now, the only questions are whether they're gonna find anything in the Colpin marsh, what Laska's gonna be like compared to Crack, and somehow he's gonna be able to shoot now.
How can I not fuck with him in front of a new man?
How could Oblonsky not shoot him? 'It also occurred to him.'
Oblonsky felt the same way and was also untalking.
One Vasenka Veslovsky couldn't stop talking fun.
Now, listening to him, Levin was ashamed to remember how wrong he was to him yesterday.
Vasenka was a really nice little, simple, kind-hearted, and very funny.
If Levin had joined him as a single man, he would have drawn close to him.
It was a little unpleasant for Levin to have his festive attitude toward life and some elegance.
As if he had admitted to being of high, unmistakable importance for having long fingernails and a cap and the rest, but that could have been excused for his kindness and decency. Levin liked him with his good upbringing, excellent reprimands in French and English, and that he was a man of his world.
Vasenka was extremely fond of the steppe Donna horse on the left pin. He was all admiring her. 'How good on the steppe horse to ride on the steppe.
He imagined something like this in riding a wild steppe horse, a poetic one from which nothing came out; but his naivety, especially in connection with his beauty, sweet smile, and grace of motion, was very attractive. Whether his nature was handsome to Levin, or whether Levin tried to atone for yesterday's sin to find all the good in him, Levin was pleased with him.
After leaving the three vertebras, Veslovsky suddenly grabbed a cigar and a wallet, and did not know whether he had lost them or left them on the table.
There were three hundred seventy rubles in the wallet, so you couldn't leave it like that.
'You know what, Levin, I'm going to go home on this Donna plaque.
That's gonna be great. Huh? 'He said, getting ready to fit in.'
'No, why?' 'I answered Levin, who had calculated that Vasenka should have at least six poodles of weight. 'I'll send a coachman.
The coachman went to the dungeon, and Levin began ruling the couple himself.
IX
'Well, what is our route?'
Tell me well,' said Stepan Arkadych.
'The plan is: now we are going to the Nlavev.
In the Nail, the swamp is duplicitous on the other side, and the Nail is followed by the lovely becassian marshes, and there are the duples.
Now it's hot, and we're gonna come by tonight and pick up the evening field; we're gonna spend the night, and we're gonna be in the big marshes tomorrow.
'Isn't there anything, dear?
'Yes; but it will be long and hot.
There are two nice places, I don't think there's anything.
Levin himself wanted to go to these places, but the places were close from home, he could always take them, and the places were small, three of them had nowhere to shoot.
And that's why he's twisting his soul, saying that there's hardly anything.
Like a small marsh, Levin wanted to pass by, but the experienced hunting eye of Stepan Arkadyić immediately looked at the urine visible from the road.
'Wouldn't you like to come in?' 'He said, pointing to the marsh.'
'Only Levin, please! How great! 'I asked Vasenka Veslovsky, and Levin couldn't help but agree.
Before they could stop like dogs chasing one another, they were on their way to the marshes.
'Crack!
Lasca!
The dogs are back.
'The three of us will be tight. 'I will stay here,' said Levin, hoping that they would find nothing but the Chibis, who had come up from the dogs and who were pumping on the fly, complainingly wept over the marsh.
'No, I'm not.
Come on, Levin, let's go together! 'Called Veslovsky.
'Right, tight.
Laska, get back!
It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
You don't need another dog, do you?
Levin stayed with the ruler and looked jealously at the hunters.
The hunters went through all the marshes. Except for the chicken and the Chibis, one of which was killed by Vasenka, there was nothing in the swamp.
'You see, I didn't feel sorry for the marsh,' said Levin, 'only time to lose.
'No, it's fun after all.
Did you see that? 'Told Vasenka Veslovsky, embarrassingly climbing the rinks with a gun and a Chibis in his hand. 'How nicely I killed this one!
Isn't that right?
Well, are we coming to the present soon?
Suddenly the horses broke, Levin hit his head against someone's gun, and a shot was fired.
The shot actually went out earlier, but it seemed to Levin.
The point was that Vasenka Veslovsky, by pulling the trigger, was pulling one ghashet and holding the other trigger.
The charge went into the ground without hurting anyone.
Stepan Arkadić shook his head and laughed down to Veslovsky.
But Levin had no spirit to speak to him. First, any recrimination would appear to be caused by a past danger and a prick that jumped on Levin's forehead; and secondly, Veslovsky was so naively upset at first, and then laughed so kindly and enthralled by their general indignance that one could not but laugh himself.
When they arrived at the second swamp, which was quite large and should have taken a long time, Levin urged them not to go out.
But Veslovsky begged him again. Again, since the swamp was narrow, Levin, as a welcoming master, remained with the crews.
Since the arrival of Crack, he's pulled to the cats.
Vasenka Veslovsky was the first to go after the dog.
And I didn't have time for Stepan Arkadych to come over, and the asshole came out.
Veslovsky made a mistake, and the dupel moved into an unlicensed meadow.
Veslovsky was given this asshole.
Krak found him again, became, and Veslovsky killed him, and returned to the crew.
'Now go, and I will stay with the horses,' he said.
Levina began to deal with hunting envy.
He handed over the leaders of Veslovsky and went into the swamp.
Laska, who had long screamed and complained of injustice, went straight to a safe, familiar knight named Levin, which Krak did not enter.
'Why don't you stop her? 'Stepan Arkadić screamed.'
'She will not frighten,' answered Levin, rejoicing at the dog and rushing for it.
In the search for Laska, the closer and closer she came to the kittens she knew, she became more and more serious.
The little swamp bird only entertained her for a moment.
She made one lap in front of the bumps, started the other one, and suddenly she flipped and froze.
'Go, go, Steve! 'Called Levin, feeling his heart beating harder, and all of a sudden, as if some shutter had moved away in his intense hearing, all the sounds, having lost the measure of distance, were disheartened, but brightly struck him.'
He heard Stepan Arkadjić's steps, taking them as far as the horses are concerned, and heard a fragile sound torn off from the roots of the corner of the bump, on which he stepped, taking that sound as a blowback. I heard a slap in the water around the back, too, in which he couldn't figure it out.
When he chose a place for his leg, he moved in with the dog.
'Peel!
Not the asshole, but the bacas broke out of the dog.
Levin led the gun, but as he was aiming, the sound of the slap on the water increased, drew near, and the voice of Veslovsky joined him, something strangely loudly screaming.
Levin saw him picking up a gun from behind the becca, but he did.
After seeing that a mistake had been made, Levin looked back and saw that horses with rollers were no longer on the road but in the marsh.
Veslovsky, wanting to see the shooting, came into the swamp and tied up the horses.
'And damn it! 'Speaks Levin of himself, returning to the tied crew.' 'Why did you go?' 'He said dryly to him, and when he clicked a pile-- rah, he began to stretch out the horses.'
Levin was also displeased that he was prevented from shooting, and that his horses were tied together, and most important, that neither Stepan Arkadić nor Veslovsky helped him or the coach, because they had neither the slightest idea of what the load was.
Without a word responding to Vasenka's assurance that it was completely dry, Levin was silently working with the coach to ask for horses.
But then, in the heat of his work and when he saw how hard Veslovsky dragged the rugs behind his wing, so he even broke it off, Levin reproached himself for being too cold for Veslovsky under the influence of yesterday's feeling, and tried to make up for his dryness with special courtesy.
When everything was cleaned up and the crews were taken to the road, Levin ordered us to get breakfast.
== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
"Ce poulet va tomber jusqu'au fond de mes bottes," said the French bunny once again cheering Vasenka, eating the second chicken. 'Well, now our ills have come to an end; now everything will go well.'
I'm the only one who owes it to me to sit on the assholes.
Isn't that right?
Huh? No, no, I'm Automedon.
Look how I'm gonna drive you!-- he answered, not letting the lead go when Levin asked him to let him in. 'No, I must atone for my guilt, and I am well on goats.' 'And he went.
Levin feared a little that he would torture horses, especially the left, redhead, whom he could not hold; but he willingly obeyed his fun, listened to novels that Veslovsky sat on goats, sung all the way, or stories and images in his faces how to rule English for in hand; and they all, after breakfast, in the most fun mood of spirit, drove to the Gzdev marsh.
X
Vasenka chased the horses so hard, they came to the marsh too early, so it was still hot.
On arriving at a serious swamp, the main purpose of the trip, Levin was reluctant to think about how he could get rid of Vasenka and walk without interference.
Stepan Arkadić apparently wanted the same thing, and Levin saw on his face the expression of concern that a real hunter always had before the start of the hunt, and some kind of good-natured trick he had.
'How shall we go?'
The swamp is excellent, I see, and the hawk's,' said Stepan Arkadych, pointing to two large birds hanging over the moustache. 'Where the hawk is,' there must be game.
'You see, gentlemen,' said Levin, with a somewhat dark expression, pulling up his boots and looking at the pistons on the gun. 'Do you see this jackass? 'He pointed to a dark black green island in a huge, right-hand side of the river, up to half a wet meadow. 'The swamp begins here, right in front of us, you see -- where greener.
From here it goes to the right, where the horses walk; there are pebbles, and there are puffs, and there are puffs, and there is a jackass all the way up to that olyshan and all the way up to the mill.
Over there, you see where the bay is.
This is the best place.
That's where I killed 17 beckas.
We're gonna split up with two dogs in different directions, and we're gonna get together at the mill.
'Well, who's right, who's left? 'Stepan Arkadić asked.' 'Right is wide, you two go, and I go left,' it was like he said, carelessly.
'Great! We're gonna shoot him!
Come on, let's go!-- got Vasenka.
Levin could not agree more, and they separated.
They just entered the swamp, and both dogs found it together and pulled it to the rust.
Levin knew this search for Lasky, careful and uncertain; he knew the place and waited for the beckas tablet.
'Veslovsky, next door, next door! 'He spoke with a calming voice to a comrade who splintered on the back of the water, whose direction of the gun, after an accidental shot at the Colpin marsh, was involuntarily interested in Levin.
'No, I won't embarrass you, you don't think of me.
But Levin thought involuntarily and remembered Kitty's words when she let him go, "Look, don't shoot each other."
The dogs came nearer and closer to each other, each carrying their own thread; the wait for the becca was so strong that the smoke of his heel, pulled out of the rust, appeared to Levin by the scream of the becca, and he grabbed and squeezed the rifle's butt.
Bam!
Bam! 'It has spread over his ear.'
It was Vasenka who shot a herd of ducks that walked over the marshes and fell far behind on the hunters at the time.
Before Levin looked back, one bacas, another three, and another eight went up one by one.
Stepan Arkadić cut one at the very moment he was going to start his zigzags, and the bacas fell into the quagmire with a lump.
The Oblonian slowly followed another one who was still flying down to the axis, and along with the sound of the shot, the bacas fell; and it was seen jumping out of the bead, beating with the surviving white wing at the bottom.
Levin was not so happy: he struck the first becca too close and missed; he followed him when he had already gone up, but there came another one under his feet and entertained him, and he made another mistake.
As soon as the guns were loaded, another bacas came up, and Veslovsky, who was able to charge another time, threw two more small shots into the water.
Stepan Arkadič picked up his beckas and took a shiny look at Levin.
'Well, now let's go,' said Stepan Arkadych, and cladding on his left foot and holding the gun ready and whistled to the dog, went one way.
Levin and Veslovsky went to the other one.
Levin was always in such a position that when the first shots failed, he was hot, pissed off, and shot ill all day long.
That's what happened today.
It turned out to be a lot of becas.
From under the dog, from under the feet of the hunters, the beckasers had always come out, and Levin could have recovered; but the more he fired, the more embarrassed he was before Veslovsky, the more fun he had fallen, and not according to measure, who had killed nothing and had not been embarrassed in any way.
Levin was in a hurry, he couldn't stand it, he was getting hotter and hotter, and he went to the point where, by shooting, he almost didn't expect to kill him.
And Laska seemed to understand that.
She looked lazy, and she looked back at the hunters with perplexity or condescendingness.
The gunshots followed the shots.
Powder smoke was around hunters, and there were only three light, small becca in a large, spacious net. And one of them was killed by Veslovsky and one in common.
On the other side of the marsh, however, there were not frequent, but Levin seemed to hear significant shots from Stepan Arkadiyić, almost all of whom heard, "Crack, Crack, Airport!"
Levin was even more concerned about it.
The becas were still in the air over the moustache.
The smugness in the earth and the curl in the heights were not silently heard from all sides: those who had been raised up before, and those who were in the air, sat in front of the hunters.
Instead of two hawks, dozens of them now peeped over the marshes.
After passing more than half of the marsh, Levin and Veslovsky reached the point where the long stripes in the moustache were separated by a man's elbow, marked with prototyped stripes, with a punctured row.
Half of these stripes have already been cut.
Although there was little hope of finding the same amount of hope for the unhappened one, Levin promised Stepan Arkadyich that he would join him and walk with his companion further along the shrivelled and unknuckled stripes.
'Hey, hunters! 'Screaming at them, one of the men sitting by a busy cart,' said one of the men, 'come with us for noon!'
Wine!
Levin looked back.
'Go, out of nowhere! 'Screaming with a red face, a jolly bearded man, blazing white teeth and raising a green, shiny statue in the sun.'
--Qu'est ce que'ils disent? 'Ask Veslovsky.'
'They call vodka to drink.'
They shared the meadows.
I would have had a drink,' said Levin not without trickery, hoping that Veslovsky would be seduced by vodka and go to them.
'Why do they treat?'
'Okay, they're having fun.
Right, come to them.
You're interested.
--Allons, c'est curieux.
'Go, go, you will find your way to the mill! 'Screaming, Levin, and looking back, he saw with pleasure that Veslovsky, leaning and stumbled on his feet and holding a gun in an outstretched hand, climbed out of the marshes to the men.'
'Go and you!' screamed the man at Levin. 'I can't believe it!
You're gonna eat a cake!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Levin was eager to drink vodka and eat a piece of bread.
He fainted and felt that the force was being ripped out of his wobbling legs, and he was in doubt for a minute.
But the dog did.
And immediately, all the fatigue disappeared, and he easily went to the dog's trembling.
A bacas flew out of his feet; he struck and killed, &quot; the dog kept standing.
"Peel!"
There's another one coming up from under the dog.
Levin fired.
But the day was wretched; he missed; and when he went to search for the slain, he found him not.
He climbed all over the sea, but Laska didn't believe he killed her, and when he sent her out to look for her, she pretended to look for her, but she didn't.
There were a lot of becas here, but Levin made a mistake. The rays of the sun were still hot; the dress, through the sweat soaked, licked to the body; the left boot, full of water, was heavy and smacked; the powder-sprayed face was dripping with sweat; the mouth was bitter, the nose smell of gunpowder and rust, in the ears the unbroken smack of bekes; the trunks could not be touched, so they were hot; the heart was knocked fast and short; the hands were shaking with excitement; and the tired legs stumbled and wept on the cats and the tremblings; but he kept walking and shooting.
Finally, after making a shameful mistake, he threw a gun and a hat on the ground.
"No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 'He said to himself. He picked up his gun and hat, called Lusk to his feet, and came out of the swamp.
When he came out to the dry land, he sat down on the ground, took off his shoes, poured water out of his boot, then came up to the marsh, drank with rusty taste of water, wet the hot trunks, and washed his face and hands.
When he freshened up, he moved again to the place where the bacas had moved, with the firm intention of not getting hot.
He wanted to be calm, but it was the same.
His finger pressed the gaffe before he took the bird to the target.
Things were getting worse and worse.
He only had five grand in a truncheon when he came out of the swamp to the olyshanic, where he was supposed to get in touch with Stepan Arkadych.
Before he saw Stepan Arkadyich, he saw his dog.
From under the embroidered root of the ulcer came Crac, all black from a stinking marshal's shadow, and with the view of the victor, he sniffed with Laska.
After Krak showed up in the shadows of the Olks and the statue of Stepan Arkadyić.
He walked towards the red one, crucified, unwrapped with the gate open, still crippled.
'Well, what?
You've been shooting a lot! 'He said, smiling fun.'
'And you? 'I asked Levin.'
But you didn't have to ask 'cause he'd already seen the whole thing.
'Nothing.'
He had 14 grand.
'Nice swamp.
You must have been in the way of Veslovsky.
Two with one dog is embarrassing,' said Stepan Arkadić, softening his celebration.
XI
When Levin and Stepan Arkadyić came to the house of the man with whom Levin had always stayed, Veslovsky was already there.
He sat in the middle of the desert and, holding on with both hands to the shop with which he was dragged by soldiers, the brother of the hostess, who was covered with quiet boots, laughed at his contagiously merry laugh.
'I just came.
Ils ont et e charmants.
Imagine, drunk me, fed me.
What bread, it's a miracle!
Deliciux!
And vodka -- I've never tasted better!
And there's no way they wanted to take the money. And everyone said, "Don't talk," like that.
'Why take the money?'
They've raised you, then.
Do they have dirty vodka? 'Sold the soldier, finally stealing a wet boot with a black stocking.'
Despite the impure fragrance of the hunter boots and the filthy, irritating dogs, the odor of the moist and powder that filled it, and the absence of knives and forks, the hunters drank tea and drank as much as they only ate in the hunt.
Washed and clean, they went to the squashing shed, where the pilers prepared the gentlemen's beds.
Although it was dark, none of the hunters wanted to sleep.
Streaming between the memories and the stories of shooting, the dogs, the old hunts, the conversation attacked a subject of interest to all.
On the occasion of several repeated expressions of admiration for Vasenka about the beauty of the night and the smell of hay, about the beauty of a broken cart (it seemed to be broken because it had been removed from the front), about the kindness of the men who drank it with vodka, about the dogs lying at the feet of their master, Oblonsky spoke of the beauty of the hunt of Maltus, which he had been on last summer.
Maltus was a well-known railway rich man.
Stepan Arkadych told us about how the marshes were bought out in the Tver Province, and how they were saved, and about the crew, the Dogcards, the hunters, and what breakfast tent was spread by the marshes.
'I don't understand you,' said Levin, rising on his hay, 'how annoying these people are to you.
I know breakfast with a lafite is very nice, but don't you hate that luxury?
All these people, as our buyers have done before, make money in a way that, in profit, deserves the contempt of people, ignores this contempt, and then pays the dishonestly earned off from the previous contempt.
'Absolutely fair! 'Vasenka Veslovsky responded. 'Absolutely.
Of course, Oblonsky does it from the bonhomie, and others say, "Oblon's driving..."
'Nothing,' Levin heard that Oblonsky smiled, saying it, 'I simply do not consider him to be more dishonest than any of the rich merchants and nobles.
Both of them have gained the same amount of effort and intelligence.
'Yes, but what kind of work?'
Is it a job to get a concession and resell it?
'Of course, work.'
Work in the sense that if it hadn't been for him or others like him, it wouldn't have mattered.
'But work is not like that of a man or a scientist.
'Let's put it down, but work in the sense that it produces results -- the road.
But you find the roads to be useless.
'No, it is another question; I am prepared to admit that they are useful.
But any purchase that does not correspond to the work that has to be done is not fair.
'Who will determine the conformity?'
'The acquisition is dishonest, tricky,' said Levin, feeling that he did not know clearly the line between fair and dishonest, 'as he had purchased bank offices,' he continued. 'It is evil, the acquisition of vast states without difficulty, as was the case at pay, only changed shape.
Le roi est mort, vive le roi!
We've just had time to destroy the payback, as the railways, the banks, have arrived: it's also easy to make a profit.
'Yes, that may be all right and witty...'
Stay down, Krak! 'Stepan Arkadić called out to a scrambled and hay-whistling dog, apparently confident of the fairness of his subject and therefore calm and slow.' 'But you did not draw a line between honest and dishonest work.'
The fact that I get more salaries than my deskmaster, although he knows the case better than I do, isn't it fair?
'I don't know.
'Well, I'll tell you, what you get for your work on the extra farm, let's say, 5,000, and our master, however hard he may be, won't get more than 50 rubles, just as shameless as I get more of a tablekeeper and Malta gets more of a road worker.'
On the contrary, I see some hostile, ungrounded social attitude towards these people, and I think there's envy...
'No, it is not fair,' said Veslovsky, 'there can be no envy, and there is something unclean in this matter.
'No, let me,' said Levin. 'You say that it's not fair, that I get 5,000, and that man is fifty rubles: that's true.
It's not fair, and I can feel it, but...
'It is indeed.
What are we eating, drinking, hunting, doing nothing, and he's always working? 'Vasenka Veslovsky said, apparently for the first time in his life, having clearly thought about it, and therefore quite frankly.'
'Yes, you do, but you do not give him your name,' said Stepan Arkadić, as if he had deliberately bullied Levin.
Recently, there had been a sort of secret hostility between the two brothers: as if since they had been married to their sisters, there had been a rivalry between them about who had better arranged their lives, and that hostility had now been expressed in a private conversation that had begun to take place.
'I'm not giving up because no one is asking me to do this, and if I wanted to, I shouldn't give it back,' answered Levin, 'and there is no one.
'Give it to this man; he will not refuse.
'Yes, but how will I give it to him?
I'm gonna go with him and do some shopping?
'I do not know; but if you are convinced that you have no right...'
'I am not convinced at all.
On the contrary, I feel that I have no right to give up, that I have responsibilities for both the earth and the family.
'No, let me; but if you think this inequality is unfair, then why don't you act like this?'
'I am acting, only negatively, in the sense that I will not try to widen the difference that exists between me and him.
'No, I'm sorry; it's a paradox.
'Yes, it is a sophic explanation,' confirmed Veslovsky. 'Ah! Master,' he said to the man who squeaked the gate into the barn. 'Are you still awake?'
'No, what a dream!
I thought our gentlemen were sleeping, and they were listening.
I'm gonna get a hook here.
She won't bite? 'He added, walking with his bare feet carefully.'
'Where will you sleep?
'We are at night.
'Ah, what a night! 'Veslovsky said, looking at those who were seen in the faint light of the dawn in the big frame of the gates now opened, the edge of the embroidery and the dismounted skating.' 'Listen, these are women's voices and, right, not bad.
Who's singing, master?
'And these are the chicks of the court, near here.'
'Let's go for a walk!
We're not gonna fall asleep.
Oblonsky, let's go!
'How would it be to lie down and go,' answered Oblonsky with a pull. 'Leave good.
'Well, I will go alone,' said Veslovsky, standing up and wearing his shoes. 'Goodbye, gentlemen.
If it's fun, I'll call you.
You've given me a wild meal, and I won't forget you.
'Isn't that right, dear fellow? 'Oblonsky said, when Veslovsky left, and the man behind him closed the gate.'
'Yes, dear,' answered Levin, continuing to think about the subject of the just-executed conversation.
He felt that, as far as he was able, he had made his thoughts and feelings clear, yet both of them, not stupid and sincere, said in one voice that he was content with sophisms.
It embarrassed him.
'That's right, my friend.
One of two things is either to recognize that the present structure of society is just and then to defend its rights; or to recognize that you enjoy and enjoy unfair advantages, as I do.
'No, if it weren't fair, you wouldn't be happy to enjoy it, at least I wouldn't.
I need to feel like it's not my fault.
'Aren't you really going?' 'Stepan Arkadić said, obviously the code of thought. 'Cause we're not gonna fall asleep.
Right, let's go!
Levin did not answer.
The word they said in the conversation that he acted fairly only in the negative sense occupied him.
"Is it the only thing that is wrong to be fair?" 'He asked himself.'
'But how much fresh hay smells! 'Stepan Arkadić said, rising up.' 'I will never fall asleep.'
Vasenka's up to something.
Do you hear the laugh and his voice?
Won't you go?
Come on!
'No, I will not go,' answered Levin.
'Are you, too, out of principle?' 'Smileing,' said Stepan Arkadić, looking for his hat in the dark.
'Not as a matter of principle, why would I go?'
'You know, you're gonna hurt yourself,' said Stepan Arkadić, finding the cap and getting up.
'Don't I see how you set yourself up with your wife?'
I've heard you have a question of first priority -- whether you're going or not for two days on the hunt.
It's all good as idyllic, but it's not gonna be enough for a lifetime.
A man has to be independent, he has his own male interests.
The man must be courageous,' said Oblonsky, opening the gate.
'I mean, what is it?' Go look after the yard girls? 'I asked Levin.'
'Why not go if it's fun?'
Ca ne tire pas a consequence.
It's not gonna make my wife any worse, and I'm gonna have fun.
The most important thing is to keep the shrine at home.
There's nothing in the house. Don't put your hands on them.
'Maybe,' said Levin dryly and turned on his side. 'Tomorrow I have to go early, and I am not waking up anyone, but I am going at dawn.'
'Messieurs, venez vite! 'The voice of the returned Veslovsky was heard.' 'Charmante!
I'm the one who opened this.
Charmante, the perfect Gretchen, and we've already met her.
That's right, sweetheart!-- he told with such a approval view that it was made for him, that it was good for him, and he was pleased with the people who had prepared it for him.
Levin pretended to be asleep, and Oblonsky, when he put on his shoes and hamstrung his cigar, went out of the barn, and their voices were quiet.
Levin couldn't sleep long.
He heard his horses chew the hay, then as the master with the older little one gathered and left at night; then heard the soldier sleeping on the other side of the barn with his nephew, the young son of the master; heard the boy chewing his uncle with a thin voice his impression of dogs that seemed scary and huge to the boy; then the boy asking who those dogs were going to catch, and as a soldier with a whirlwind and a sleepy voice told him that tomorrow the hunters would go into the swamp and shoot from the guns, and then, to get away from the boy's questions, he said, "Sleep, Vyka, sleep, or look," and soon he snooped, and all of it was quiet; only the horn of the horses and the brocade of the bucks were heard.
"Is it only negative? 'He repeated it to himself. 'So what?'
It's not my fault."
And he started thinking about tomorrow.
"Tomorrow I'll go early in the morning and take care of myself.
The Becas are a mess.
And there's a dope.
I'll come home, a note from Kitty.
Yeah, Steve's probably right. I'm not manly with her.
But what can we do?
Again negative!"
Through his sleep he heard laughter and the merry talk of Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadyić.
He opened his eyes for a moment: the moon came up, and in the open gate, brightly lit with the moon's light, they stood, talking.
Something Stefan Arkadych said about the girl's freshness, comparing her to a fresh peanut that had just been hatched, and something Veslovsky, laughing with his contagious laughter, would say, probably the man said to him, "You've got to do yours as much as you can!" Levin said through his dream:
'Lords, tomorrow is better than light! 'And fell asleep.
XII
When Levin woke up early in the morning, he tried to wake up his comrades.
Vasenka, lying on his stomach and pulling out one leg in a stocking, slept so hard that he couldn't get an answer.
The Oblonian refused to go so early in his sleep.
Even Laska, who slept with a ring on the edge of the hay, was reluctant to stand up and lazy, one after another, pulled out her legs and adjusted her back.
After taking his shoes, taking his gun and carefully opening the squeaky door of the barn, Levin went out into the street.
The packers slept at the crews, the horses were sleeping.
She only ate the oats lazyly, snoring him on the well.
There were still grays in the yard.
'What's up so early, obnoxious? &lt; &lt;&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;As an old friend, &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt;As friendly as an old friend, &lt;i&gt; &lt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
'Yeah, hunting, Auntie.
Do you want me to go to the swamp?
'That's right in the booty; our gums, sweet man, yes with the pots; the stitch is there.'
Carefully walking with her bare, tanned feet, the old woman led Levin away and tossed the fence by the gum.
'You're right in the swamp.
Our guys went there forever.
Laska ran forward in a good way; Levin followed her quickly, lightly, staring at the sky.
He wanted the sun not to rise before it reached the marsh.
But the sun wasn't.
A month that was still shining when it came out, now only glittered like a piece of mercury; the morning barn, which could not be ignored before, now had to be searched; previously undefined spots on the far field were now clearly visible.
They were rusty cops.
Unseen in the absence of sunlight, dew in a suffocating high pot, from which the wiles were chosen, urinated Levin's legs and blues above the belt.
In the clear silence of the morning, the slightest sound was heard.
A bee with a whistled bullet flew past Levin's ear.
He looked closely and saw another and a third.
They all flew out because of the beekeeper's braid and hid over the cannabis in the direction of the marshes. The stitch went right into the swamp.
The swamp could be identified by the pairs that climbed from it, where it was thicker, where it was less common, so that the moose and the crustite bushes, like the islands, hesitated on that couple.
On the edge of the marshes and the roads, the boys and the men who were watching the night lay, and before the dawn all slept under the caftans.
There were three confused horses not far from them.
One of them was wearing shackles.
Laska walked next to the master, waking up and looking back.
After passing through the sleeping men and standing up to the first urine, Levin examined the pistons and let the dog in.
One of the horses, a full brown third man, when he saw the dog, he flipped and, with his tail up, he sniffed.
The rest of the horses were also scared, and their feet were slapped in the water and produced from thick clay sounds like clapping, jumping out of the marshes.
Laska stopped, laughing at the horses and asking questions about Levin.
Levin ironed Laska and swerved to show that it was possible to begin.
It's funny, it's funny, it's funny, it's funny, it's kind of freaking out under it.
When Laska ran into the swamp, immediately, among her familiar smells of root, herbs, rust, and foreign smell of horse manure, she sensed the fragrance of the bird that she was most concerned about.
Somewhere along the moss and ponds, the moist smell was very strong, but there was no way to decide which way it was increasing and weakening.
To find a direction, you had to go further into the wind.
Without feeling the movement of her legs, Lasca, with a heavy gallop, could stop at every jump if she found it necessary, leaped right away from the wind blowing from the east and turned to the wind.
By inhaling the air with extended nostrils, she immediately felt that not the footprints alone, but that she herself was here in front of her, not alone, but many.
Laska reduced the speed of the run.
They were here, but where exactly, she couldn't tell.
To find this very place, she started the circle when suddenly the host's voice entertained her.
"Lasca! Here!" 'He said, pointing her the other way.'
She stood there asking him if it was better to do what she started. But he repeated the order with an angry voice, showing it to a water-sprayed potter where nothing could have happened.
She listened to him, pretending that she was looking to make him happy, licked the knob and went back to her place and immediately felt them again.
Now that he wasn't bothering her, she knew what to do, and, without looking under her feet and with annoyance, stumbled on the tall kegs and got into the water, but with flexible, strong legs, she started a circle that was supposed to explain everything to her.
The smell of them became stronger and stronger, more precise and more precise, and suddenly it became quite clear to her that one of them was here, behind that lump, five feet before her, and she stopped and froze the whole body.
On her low feet, she could not see anything in front of herself, but she scented that he was sitting within five steps.
She stood, feeling him more and more and enjoying the wait.
Her extravagant tail was pulled out and pissed off only at the end.
Her mouth was slightly open, her ears raised.
One ear turned still on the run, and it was hard, but carefully breathed and looked back, with more eyes than its head on the master.
He, with his familiar face, but always awful eyes, walked, tripping, cats, and incredibly quiet, as she thought.
She thought he was walking quietly and he was running.
Noticed that particular search for Luski, when she pressed herself all the way to the ground, as if she had taken great steps in the back legs, and opened her mouth slightly, Levin realized that she was pulling her asses, and in the soul praying to God for success, especially on the first bird, he ran up to her.
When he came up to her, he looked from his height before him, and saw with his eyes what she saw with her nose.
There was an asshole in the hole between the buns.
When he turned his head, he listened.
Then, as he spread and folded his wings again, he sneaked out behind the corner, embarrassingly spinning his back.
'Peel, saw,' cried Levin, kicking Laska's ass.
"But I can't go," Laska thought. 'Where will I go?
I can feel them from here, and if I move forward, I can't understand where they are or who they are."
But when he pushed her on his knee and whispered, he said, "Peel, sweetheart, drink!"
"Well, if he wants to do it, I'll do it, but I'm not in charge of myself anymore," she thought, and she went from one side to the next.
She didn't smell anything anymore, and she just saw and heard, and she didn't understand anything.
Ten steps from the old place with the fat ferret and the special burrowing sound of the wings, one dupel rose. And after the shot, he slapped his white breasts hard on wet shakes.
The other could not wait for Levin to come up from behind without a dog.
When Levin turned to him, he was far away. But the shot got him.
After flying twenty steps, the second duppet climbed up to the top with a Coke and a cube, like an abandoned ball, and fell heavily to a dry spot.
'This is gonna be good!' thought Levin, hiding warm and fat ash in the tibia. 'Ah, sweetheart, will it be good?'
When Levin loaded his gun and moved on, the sun, though not yet visible behind the clouds, rose.
A month after losing all the glitter like a cloud, there was whiteness in the sky; no stars were seen.
The urinals, previously silvered by dew, are now gold.
The rust was all amber.
The blue herbs have moved to yellowish greens.
Swamp birds dug on shiny dews and put a long shadow of bushes at the creek.
The hawk woke up and sat on a cop, side by side, turning his head, disgruntlingly looking at the swamp.
The gals were flying into the field, and the barefoot boy had already driven the horses up to the kaftan climber and the scratched old man.
Smoke from gunshots, like milk, white in green grass.
One of the boys ran to Levin.
'Uncle, the ducks were here yesterday! 'He cried out to him, and followed him from afar.'
And Levin, in view of this boy, who expressed his approval, had the double pleasure of killing three becass at once.
The hunter knows that if the first beast and the first bird were not missed, the field would be happy, and it proved to be just.
Tired, hungry, happy, Levin, at the tenth hour of the morning, out of thirty, with 19 pieces of red game and one duck he tied to his belt, as she was no longer climbing into the lambs, returned to the apartment.
His comrades woke up a long time ago and got hungry and had breakfast.
'Wait, wait, I know that there are nineteen,' said Levin, counting for the second time the non-existent as they had, when they flew out, crooked and dried up, baked with blood, with the heads of the dupels and the beckas.
The account was true, and the envy of Stepan Arkadyić was pleasing to Levin.
It was a pleasure to him that when he returned to the apartment, he caught the one who had already come from Kitty with a note.
"I'm healthy and funny.
If you're afraid for me, you can be even more calm than before.
I have a new bodyguard, Maria Vsaevna (who was a midwife, a new, important face in Levin's family life).
She came to see me. Found me perfectly healthy, and we left her until you arrived.
Everyone's happy, healthy, and please take your time, and if the hunt is good, stay another day."
These two joys, a happy hunt and a note from his wife, were so great that the two little troubles that followed were easy for Levin.
One was that the ginger ginger, apparently reworked yesterday, did not eat feed and was bored.
The guy said she was busted.
'Listen yesterday, Konstantin Dmitrich,' he said. 'Oh, yes, ten verste went wrong!
Another problem that upset his good spirit in the first minute, but over whom he laughed after much, was that of all the provisions that Kitty had given to him in such abundance that it seemed impossible to eat it a week, nothing was left.
When Levin returned tired and hungry from hunting, he was so certain to dream of cakes that, as he approached the apartment, he had already heard the smell and taste of them in his mouth, as Laska had sniffed the game, and immediately told Philip to serve them to him.
Turns out not only the cakes, but the chickens were gone.
'Oh, my appetite! 'Stepan Arkadić said, laughing, pointing at Vasenka Veslovsky.' 'I do not suffer from a lack of appetite, but it is amazing...
'Well, what to do! 'Said Levin, looking down at Veslovsky.' 'Phillip, give me the beef.'
'The beef was eaten, I gave the bone to the dogs,' answered Philip.
Levin was so offended that he said with shame: 'I wish I had left something!' and he wanted to cry. 'Throw out the wild, then,' he said with Philip's trembling voice, trying not to look at Vasenka, 'and put on the paws. Ask me some milk.
Then, when he ate his milk, he became ashamed that he had offended another man, and he began to laugh at his hungry anger.
In the evening, the field in which Veslovsky also killed a few grand was also made, and on the night they returned home.
The way back was as much fun as the way out there.
And Weslovsky sang it, and remembered his pleasure with the men who gave him vodka and said to him, "Don't talk to him." Then his nights with the peanuts and the yard girl and the man who asked him if he was married, and when he found out that he was not married, he said to him, "You should not marry other people's wives, but seek nothing more than your own."
Those words made Veslovsky laugh in particular.
'In fact, I am terribly pleased with our journey.
And you, Levin?
'I am very pleased,' said Levin sincerely, who was particularly happy not only not to feel the hostility he felt at home towards Vasenka Veslovsky, but, on the contrary, to feel friendly with him.
On the other day, at 10 p.m., Levin, after bypassing the farm, knocked on the room where Vasenka was sleeping.
'Entrez,' shouted Veslovsky. 'Excuse me, I've just finished my ablusions,' he said, smiling, standing in front of him in one underwear.
'Don't be shy, please. 'Only Levin sat down at the window.' 'Did you sleep well?
'As dead.
What a day it is for hunting!
'Yes. Are you tea or coffee?
'Neither.
I'm having breakfast.
I'm really ashamed.
Ladies, I think they're up already?
Take a good walk now.
You show me the horses.
As he walked through the garden, went to the stables, and even made gymnastics in the barn together, Levin returned with his guest home and entered the living room with him.
'Great hunting, and how many impressions! 'Veslovsky said, approaching Kitty, who was sitting behind the samurai. 'It is a pity that the ladies are deprived of these pleasures!
"Well, he should talk to the hostess of the house sometime," said Levin to himself.
He felt something in his smile again, in the victorial expression the guest addressed to Kitty...
The Princess, sitting on the other side of the table with Maria Vsayevna and Stepan Arkadyić, called Levin and talked to him about moving to Moscow to give birth to Kitty and making an apartment.
For Levin, as at the wedding, there were unpleasant preparations that insulted the majesty of what was being done, even more offensive were the preparations for future births, the time of which was somehow counted on their fingers.
He kept trying not to hear these conversations about how the baby's future would be sunk, and he tried to turn his back and not see some mysterious endless knitting strips, some painting triangles attributed to Dolly's special importance, etc.
The birth of a son (he was certain that the son), which he had been promised, but which he could not believe in -- so it seemed extraordinary -- seemed to him, on the one hand, so great and therefore impossible happiness, on the other hand, so mysterious that it was such an imaginary knowledge of what would happen and, because of the preparation as an ordinary, human being, it seemed outrageous and humiliating to him.
But the Princess did not understand his feelings and explained to him that she did not want to think and talk about it lightly and with indifference, and therefore did not rest with him.
She instructed Stepan Arkadyich to look at the apartment and now called Levin.
'I know nothing, Princess.
Do as you wish,' he said.
'We have to decide when you'll move.'
'I don't really know.
I know there's gonna be millions of babies without Moscow and doctors... why...
'If so...
'No, as Kitty wants.
'You can't talk to Kitty about it!
What do you want me to do to scare her?
This spring, Natalie Golitsyn died of a bad obstetrician.
'Whatever you say, I will,' he said.
The Princess began to tell him, but he did not listen to her.
Although the conversation with the Princess upset him, he was blushed not by this conversation, but by what he saw at the samovar.
"No, it's impossible," he thought, sometimes looking at Kitty Vasenka's bent over, with his beautiful smile saying something to her, and she was red and excited.
There was something unclean in Vasenka's pose, in his eyes, in his smile.
Levin saw even something unclean in Kitty's pose and look. And the light is dead again in his eyes.
Again, yesterday, suddenly, without the slightest passage, he felt thrown from the height of happiness, tranquillity, dignity into the abyss of despair, anger and humiliation.
It's all over again, and it's disgusting to him.
'Do as you wish, Princess,' he said, looking back again.
'Here's Monomach's heavy hat!' said Stepan Arkadić to him, insinuating not just one conversation with the Princess, but the cause of Levin's excitement that he had noticed. 'How late you are today, Dolly!
Everyone stood up to meet Daria Alexandrovna.
Vasenka stood up for a minute, and with new young people's lack of courtesy, he bowed to the ladies and continued talking again, laughing at something.
'Masha tortured me.
She did not sleep well, and the mood is terrible today,' said Dolly.
The conversation that Vasenka had with Kitty was about yesterday, about Anna, and whether love could rise above the conditions of light.
Kitty was distasteful of this conversation, and he worried her with both the content and the tone that led him, and especially that she knew how it would affect her husband.
But she was too simple and innocent to be able to stop this conversation, and even to hide the obvious pleasure that this young man gave her.
She wanted to stop talking, but she didn't know what to do.
Whatever she did, she knew, would be seen by her husband, and everything would be turned into a bad side.
And indeed, when she asked Dolly what was going on with Mary, and Vasenka, waiting for this boring conversation to end for him, began to look at Dolly indifferently, this question appeared to Levin as an insane, disgusting trick.
'Are we going to get mushrooms now?' 'Yes,' said Dolly.
'Let's go, please, and I will go,' said Kitty and blushed.
She wanted to ask Vasenka if he was going, and she didn't ask. 'Where are you going, Kostya? 'She asked her husband with a bad look when he took a decisive step past her.
This guilty expression confirmed all his doubts.
'The driver came without me, I haven't seen him yet,' he said, without looking at her.
He went downstairs, but before he got out of the office, he heard his wife's familiar steps coming carelessly towards him.
'What are you? 'He said to her, dry.' 'We're busy.
'Excuse me,' she turned to the German driver. 'I have a few words to say to my husband:
The German wanted to leave, but Levin said to him,
'Don't worry.
'The train at three?' 'The German asked.' 'As if it weren't too late.'
Levin did not answer him and went out with his wife.
'Well, what do you have to say to me?' 'He spoke French.'
He didn't look at her face, and he didn't want to see that she, in her position, was shaking the whole face and had a pathetic, destroyed look.
'I'm... I'm saying that you can't live like this, that it's torture...' she said.
'People are here in the buffet,' he said angryly, 'don't make a scene.
'Come on, let's go!
They were standing in the front room. Kitty wanted to go in next door.
'Well, let's go to the garden!
In the garden, they bumped into a man who cleaned the road. And no longer thinking that a man saw her crying, and his excited face, not thinking that they had a kind of people running away from some kind of disaster, they took a quick step forward, feeling that they had to speak out and talk to each other, to be alone, and to get rid of the torment that both had experienced.
'You can't live like this!
It's torture!
I suffer, you suffer.
For what? 'She said, when they finally got to the secluded shop on the corner of the fake alley.'
'But tell me one thing: Was in his tone indecent, unclean, humiliating, awful? 'He said, standing before her again in the same position, with his fists in front of his breast, as he stood before her at night.'
'It was,' she said with a trembling voice. 'But, Kostya, do you not see that it is not my fault?'
I wanted to take that tone this morning, but these people...
Why did he come?
How happy we were! 'She said, suffocating with tears that lifted up her full body.'
The gardener was surprised to see that nothing was chasing them and that there was nothing to run from, and that nothing particularly happy could be found in the shop -- the gardener saw that they had come home to him with calm, shining faces.
When Levin led his wife upstairs, he went to half of Dolly.
Daria Alexandrovna, for her part, was in great displeasure on that day.
She walked around the room and said angryly to a girl standing in a corner crying:
'And you will stand all day in the corner, and you will have lunch alone, and you will not see any dolls, neither will you have a new dress,' she said, without knowing how to punish her.
'No, it's a nasty girl! 'She turned to Levin.' 'Where do these vile tendencies come from?'
'What did she do?' 'It was rather indifferent that Levin, who wanted to consult about his case, said, and so it was a shame that he had fallen into displeasure.
'He and Grisha went to the raspberry and there... I can't even tell you what she was doing.
That's disgusting.
A thousand times you'll regret Miss Elliot.
This one isn't looking at anything, the car...
Figurez vus, quo'elle...
And Daria Alexandrovna told Mary's crime.
'It doesn't prove anything, it's not nasty inclinations at all, it's just a mess,' she was calmed down by Levin.
'But are you upset?
Why are you here? 'I asked Dolly.' 'What is being done there?
And in the tone of the question, Levin heard that it would be easy for him to say what he intended to say.
'I wasn't there, I was alone in the garden with Kitty.
This is the second time we've had a fight since...
Steve's here.
Dolly looked at him with smart, understanding eyes.
'Well, tell me, hand upon heart, wasn't... in Kitty, but in this gentleman such a tone that may be unpleasant, uncool, but awful, insulting to his husband?'
'I mean, how do you say...'
Wait, stay in the corner! 'She turned to Mary, who, when she saw a slight smile on her mother's face, turned. 'Societal opinion would be that he behaves like all young people.
Il fat la cour a une jeune et jolie femme, and the husband should only be flattered by it.
'Yes, yes,' said Levin sombrely, 'but have you noticed?
'Not just me, but Steve noticed.'
He said to me right after tea: Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour a Kitty.
'That's great, now I'm calm.
I will drive him away,' said Levin.
'Are you out of your mind? 'Cause Dolly screamed with horror. 'Come on, Kostya, remember! 'Laughing,' she said. 'Well, you can go to Fanny now,' she said. 'No, if you want me to tell Steve.
He'll take him away.
You could say you're waiting for guests.
He's not at our house at all.
'No, no, I'll do it.
'But will you fight?'
It's gonna be so much fun for me,' said Levin. 'Well, forgive her, Dolly!
She will not,' he said, about a little criminal who did not go to Fanny and hesitated against her mother, waiting and looking for her eyes.
Mother looked at her.
The girl cried, buried her face in her mother's knees, and Dolly put her skinny soft hand on her head.
"What do we have in common with him?" 'I thought Levin, and went to search for Veslovsky.'
Going through the front, he told me to plant a stroller to drive to the station.
'The ressort broke yesterday,' answered the footman.
'Well, so tarantas, but sooner.'
Where's the guest?
'They went to their room.
Levin caught Vasenka, while he had taken his belongings out of the suitcase and decomposing new novels, trying on crags to ride.
Whether there was anything special in Levin's face, Vasenka himself felt that the ce petit brin de cour he had set up was inappropriate in this family, but he was somewhat confused (as a secular man may be) by Levin's entrance.
'Do you ride in crags?'
'Yes, it is much cleaner,' said Vasenka, putting his fat foot on the chair, setting the bottom hook and having fun, smiling well.
He was certainly a kind fellow, and Levin felt sorry for him and was ashamed of himself, the master of the house, when he noticed the shyness in Vasenka's eyes. H
And the table lay a piece of stick, which they broke together on the gymnastics this morning, trying to raise the stuffed barns.
Levin took this wreck into his hand and began to break the cracked end without knowing how to begin.
'I wanted to...' he shut up, but suddenly, remembering Kitty and all that was, looking him in the eye with determination, said, 'I told you to plant horses.'
'What do you mean? 'started with the surprise of Vasenka. 'Where shall I go?
'To you, on the railway,' said Levin darkly, the pinch is the end of the stick.
'Are you leaving or did something happen?'
'I happen to be waiting for guests,' said Levin, breaking with his strong fingers the ends of a split stick faster and faster. 'And I do not expect guests, and nothing has happened, but I ask you to leave.'
You can explain how you want me to be uncooperative.
Vasenka's straightened out.
'I ask you to explain to me...' he said with dignity, finally understanding.
'I can't explain it to you,' said Levin quietly and slowly, trying to hide the trembling of his cheekbones. 'And you better not ask.'
And since the broken ends were already broken, Levin clinged his fingers to the thick ends, tore up the stick, and carefully caught the fall of the end.
Probably the view of these heavy hands, the very muscles he felt this morning in gymnastics, and the shiny eyes, the quiet voice, and the shivering cheekbones convinced Vasenka more words.
When he shaked his shoulders and smiled in contempt, he bowed.
'Can I see Oblonski?
The shaking of his shoulders and smile did not annoy Levin.
"What else does he have to do?" 'He thought.'
'I'll send it to you now.
'What is this nonsense!' said Stepan Arkadić, learning from a friend that he was being expelled from his house, and finding Levin in the garden where he was walking, waiting for the guest to leave. 'Mais c'est Ridicule!
What kind of fly bit you?
Mais c'est du dernier Ridicule!
What do you think if a young man...
But the place where Levin was bitten by the fly seemed to be still sore, because he turned pale again when Stepan Arkadič wanted to explain the cause, and quickly interrupted him:
'Please don't explain why!
I couldn't have done it otherwise!
I'm very ashamed of you and of him.
But I don't think he's gonna have much trouble leaving, and my wife and I are gonna hate his presence.
'But he is insulted!
Et puis c'est Ridicule.
'And I am insulted and tormented!
And it's not my fault, and I don't have to suffer!
'Well, that's not what I expected of you!
On peut etre jaloux, mais a se point, c'est du dernier radicale!
Levin turned quickly, and left him in the depths of the alleys, and kept walking alone back and forth.
Soon he heard the rumbling of Tarantas and saw from behind the trees, like Vasenka sitting on a hay (in trouble there was no seat in the tarantas) in his Scottish cap, jumping over the cliffs, driving through the alley.
"What's that?" 'I thought Levin, when the footman ran out of the house, stopped the tarantas.'
It was a driver that Levin completely forgot about.
The car driver used to say something to Veslovsky, then climbed into the tarantas, and they left together.
Stepan Arkadić and the Princess were outraged by Levin's actions.
And not only did he feel superior, but he also felt guilty and disgraced; but remembering that he and his wife had suffered, he wondered how he would have done another time, and he answered himself, which was exactly the same.
Despite all of this, by the end of this day, all except the Princess, who did not forgive Levin's act, were incredibly excited and merry, like the children after the punishment or the big ones after the heavy official reception, so that tonight the expulsion of Vasenka in the absence of the Princess had already been referred to as a long-standing event.
And Dolly, who had a gift from her father to talk funny, forced Varenka to fall out of laughter when she, for the third and fourth time, all with new humorous additions, talked about how she was just going to wear new guest bananas and go out into the living room, and suddenly she heard a rumbling of wheelchairs.
And who's in the wheel? -- Vasenka herself, with the Scottish hat, and with the novels, and with the Crags, sits on the hay.
'I wish you'd told the carriage to hide it!
No, and then I hear, "Wait!"
Well, I guess they did.
I see they put a fat German in his house and drove him...
And my bows are gone!
Daria Alexandrovna fulfilled her purpose and went to Anna.
She felt very sorry for her sister and for her husband; she understood how just the Levins were, not wanting to have any relationship with Wronski; but she felt it was her duty to visit Anna and show her that her feelings could not change despite the change in her situation.
So that she might not be dependent on the Levins on the journey, she sent the horses to the village; but Levin learned of it, and came to her with a reprimand.
'Why do you think I don't like your trip?'
If I did, I'd hate it if you didn't take my horses," he said. 'You never once told me that you were going decisively.
And hiring in the village, first of all, isn't good for me, and most of all, they're gonna take it, but they're not gonna make it. I have horses.
And if you don't want to upset me, you take mine.
Daria Alexandrovna had to agree, and on the appointed day Levin prepared four horses for his sister - in - law and set her up, bringing her together from the workers and from the upper ones, very ugly, but who could deliver Daria Alexandrovna in one day.
Now that the horses were also needed for the princess who was leaving and for the midwife, it was difficult for Levin, but as a matter of hospitality he could not allow Daria Alexandrovna to hire horses from his house, and he also knew that the twenty rubles asked of Daria Alexandrovna for the trip were very important to her; and the moneys of Daria Alexandrovna, who were in a very poor position, felt Levin as their own.
Daria Alexandrovna, on Levin's advice, left before dawn.
The road was good, the stroller was dead, the horses were running well, and the goats, except the coachman, sat in place of a footman sent by Levin for safety.
Daria Alexandrovna fell asleep and woke up, only when she reached the stable court where the horses had to be changed.
After drinking tea at the same rich host man who had Levin on his trip to Sviyazh, and having a conversation with the women about the children and with the old man, Count Vronsk, whom he greatly praised, Daria Alexandrovna went further at ten o'clock.
At home, taking care of her children, she's never had time to think. But now, on this four-hour journey, all the previously detained thoughts were suddenly in her head, and she changed her whole life, more than ever, and from all sides.
She was weird about her thoughts.
At first, she thought of the children whom, although the Princess, and most importantly Kitty (she had hoped for her), promised to look after them, she was concerned.
"No matter how much Mary starts messing around again, Grisha's gonna get hit by a horse and Lily's stomach's gonna get upset."
But then the questions of the present began to change to questions of the near future.
She began to think about taking a new apartment in Moscow this winter, changing the furniture in the living room, and making a coat for her older daughter.
Then she began to look at the questions of a more distant future: how she would bring the children into human form.
'The girls are nothing yet,' she thought, 'but boys?
Okay, I'm working with Grisha now, but it's just because I'm free now, not having a baby.
Steve, of course, has nothing to count on. And I will take them out with the help of good men, but if they give birth again...
And she had a thought of how unjustly it was said that the curse was placed on a woman to bear a child in pain.
"Nothing to bear, but to wear -- that's what's painful," she thought, imagining her last pregnancy and the death of that last child.
And she remembered talking to a young woman in the yard.
When asked if she had any children, a beautiful young woman had a funny answer:
'There was a girl, God forbid, buried her post.
'Well, do you feel sorry for her? 'Darya Alexandrovna asked.'
'Would you regret it?'
The old man has so many grandchildren.
Just care.
You don't have to work, you don't have to do anything.
Just one connection.
The answer seemed repulsive to Daria Alexandrovna, despite the sweetness of the young woman, but now she has suddenly remembered those words.
There was also a measure of truth in those cynical words.
"Yeah, and in general," thought Daria Alexandrovna, looking back on her life during these 15 years of marriage -- pregnancy, nausea, stupidity of mind, indifference to everything and, above all, outrage.
Kitty, the young, pretty Kitty, and she's so silly, and I'm being a pregnant woman, I know.
Births, suffering, monstrous suffering, this last minute... then feeding, these sleepless nights, these pains are terrible..."
Daria Alexandrovna shuddered with a single memory of the pain of cracked nipples that she had experienced with almost every child.
"Then the disease of the children, this fear is eternal; then the upbringing, the nasty inclinations (she remembered the crime of little Mary in raspberry), learning, Latin -- it's all so incomprehensible and difficult.
And above all, the death of these same children."
Once again, in her imagination, her mother's eternally annoying heart came up with a cruel memory of the death of her last, a breast-dead boy, his funeral, a general indifference in front of this little pink coffin, and her heart-broken, lonely pain in front of a pale lobster with curly curls, before an open and surprised mouth seen from the coffin the minute it was covered with a rose cap with a gallon cross.
"And what's all this for?
What's gonna happen out of all this?
The fact that I, having no moment of peace, am pregnant, that I am feeding, that I am always angry, that I am grumbling, that I am suffering, that I am suffering, that I am disgusting to my husband, that I will live my life, and that I will grow up poor, wretched, and needy children.
And now, if it weren't for the summer of Levin, I don't know how we'd live.
Of course, Kostya and Kitty are so delicate that we are invisible; but this cannot continue.
They will go with their children, they will not be able to help us; they are still shy.
Well, is the dad who left almost nothing behind gonna help?
So I can't take the kids out on my own, and not with the help of others, with humiliation.
Well, if we assume the happiest, the kids aren't gonna die anymore, and I'm gonna raise them sometime. At best, they won't be bastards.
That's all I can want.
It's all about the pain, the hard work...
My whole life is ruined!"
She was reminded again of what the young man had said, and again she was sick of remembering it; but she could not help but agree that there was a share of the gross truth in those words.
'What, far away, Michaela? 'Asked Daria Alexandrovna at the clerk's office to entertain her from the thoughts that scared her.
'It is from this village that seven versts are affected.
The wheel on the street of the village drove to the bridge.
There was a lot of fun and fun talking on the bridge, and there was a bunch of fun women with sweaty strings behind their shoulders.
The women stopped at the bridge, curiously looking around the wheelchair.
All the faces turned out to be healthy, funny, teasing her with the joy of life.
"Everybody lives, everyone enjoys life," she kept thinking, passing by the women, climbing up the mountain, and again on the rats enjoying shaking on the soft scramblers of the old wheelchair. "And I, like a prison released from a world that kills me with care, just remembered for a moment now.
Everyone lives: both these women, and Natalie's sister, and Varenka, and Anna, whom I am going to, not me.
And they're attacking Anna.
For what?
Well, am I better?
At least I have a husband I love.
Not the way I wanted to love him, but I love him, and Anna didn't love hers?
What's her fault?
She wants to live.
God put it in our soul.
It could be that I would have done the same thing.
And I still don't know if I did well to listen to her at this awful time when she came to visit me in Moscow.
I was supposed to leave my husband and start my life again.
I could love and be loved for real.
Is it better now?
I don't respect him.
I need him,' she thought about her husband,' and I put up with him.
Is that better?
Then I could still like it, and I still have my beauty," and he kept thinking, "Daria Alexandrovna, and she wanted to look in the mirror.
She had a traffic mirror in her bag, and she wanted to get it out; but when she looked at the backs of the swinger and the swinging clerk, she felt that she would feel ashamed if one of them looked back and didn't pull out the mirrors.
But without looking in the mirror, she thought that it was not too late, and she remembered Sergei Ivanovich, who was particularly kind to her, Steve's buddy, the kind Tourovtsin, who took care of her children with her during the Scarlatine and was in love with her. And there was this very young man who, as her husband joked to her, found that she was prettier than all the sisters.
And the most passionate and impossible novels were represented by Daria Alexandrovna.
"Anna did a great job, and there's no way I'm gonna blame her.
She's happy, she's making another man's happiness, and she's not as full as I am, but right, just as always, fresh, smart, open to everything,' thought Daria Alexandrovna, and a flute smile wrinkled her lips, especially because, thinking about Anna's novel, in parallel with him, Daria Alexandrovna imagined her almost the same romance with an imaginary collecting man who was in love with her.
She, like Anna, confessed everything to her husband. And the surprise and confusion of Stepan Arkadyić, at the same time, made her smile.
In such dreams, she came to a turn from a big road leading to Vozvolensky.
The drawer stopped the four and looked back to the right, in the rust field where the men were sitting by the cart.
The clerk wanted to jump, but then he thought about it, and he yelled at the man, the man's man to himself.
The wind that was on the road was silent when it stopped, and the blind were made angry by the sweaty horses who ran away from them.
It's a metal ring from the cart, sneaking around the cosmics. One of the men went up and went to the wheelchair.
'Here you go! 'The clerk screamed angryly at the man's unhooked, unhooked dry road with his bare feet. &lt;br /&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;i&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt 'Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!
A curly old man tied to his hair with a fan, with a dark sweating humpback, accelerating his step, came up to the wheelchair and took a tan by the side of the sidecar.
'Vodinsky, to the court of the barn?' To the count? 'He repeated it. 'Once you get out of here.'
Left turn.
You're right on top of it, you're gonna stick it in there.
Who do you think you are? I don't know what you're talking about.
'Are they home, sweetheart? 'Darya Alexandrovna said indistinctly, not knowing how even a man would ask about Anna.
'He must be at home,' said the man, walking bare feet and leaving a clear footprint with five fingers in the dust. 'He must be at home,' he repeated, apparently wanting to talk. 'The guests arrived yesterday.
Guests are passion...
What are you doing? 'He turned to the guy who screamed something from the cart.' 'And that!
Dave went all the way upstairs to watch the reap.
Must be home now.
Who are you gonna be?
'We are far away,' said the coachman, climbing on the goats.
What's wrong with that?
'I say it is. When you go...' he said, peeling his hand on the side of the sidecar.
A young, healthy, hard-core guy came along, too.
'What, isn't there a job for cleaning? 'He asked.'
'I don't know, love.
'Like you're going to take to the left, so you're going to do it,' said the man, apparently reluctant to leave the passers-by and wanting to talk.
The pitcher touched, but they just turned around like a man screaming,
Hey, honey! Wait. &lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Two voices screamed. &lt;i&gt;
The pitcher stopped. 'I'm on my way! There they are! 'The man screamed.' 'You see, they're drowning! 'He spoke, pointing to four horsemen and two in a charabana on the way.'
It was the Vronsky with the jockey, Veslovsky, and Anna with the tops and Princess Varvar with the Sviyazhsky in the Charabana.
They went for a ride and watched the operation of the newly arrived harvest machines.
When the crew stopped, the horsemen took a step.
Anna was driving in front of Veslovsky.
Anna was walking calmly on a small, dense English gob with a haircut and a short tail.
Her beautiful head with her broken black hair from under her high hat, her full shoulders, a thin thalium in a black Amazon, and all the calm graceful landing struck Dolly.
At the first minute, she felt nasty that Anna was riding.
With the idea of riding for the lady, the concept of Darya Alexandrovna combined the image of a young, light flirty, which, in her view, did not go to Anna's position; but when she saw it near her, she immediately reconciled herself with her upper ride.
Despite the elegance, it was so simple, calm and dignified, both in the pose, in the clothes, and in Anna's movements, that nothing could have been more natural.
Next to Anna, Vasenka Veslovsky was riding on a gray, hot cavalry horse, pulling fat feet forward and apparently admiring himself in a Scottish cap with waving ribbons, and Daria Alexandrovna couldn't hold on to a fun smile when she knew it.
Wronsky was driving behind them.
There was a bloody, dark and wretched horse under him, obviously hot on the halope. He held her back and worked as a cause.
He was followed by a little man in a jockey suit.
Sviyazhsky with the princess in a new charban on a large raven rat caught up with the horsemen.
Anna's face the minute she was in a little squeezed up in the corner of an old wheelchair, the figure recognized Dolly, suddenly glowing with a happy smile.
She screamed, shivered on the saddle, and touched the horse with a gallop.
When she drove up to the wheelchair, she jumped off without help and, in support of the Amazon, ran toward Dolly.
'I didn't think so, and I didn't dare think so.'
What a joy!
You can't imagine my joy!' she said, leaning face to Dolly and kissing her, cutting off and smiling at her.
'Here's the joy, Alexei! 'She said, looking back at Wronsky, who had gone off his horse and approached them.'
He took off his gray high hat and approached Dolly.
'You will not believe how pleased we are to have you come,' he said, giving special meaning to the words spoken and smiling by opening his strong white teeth.
Vasenka Veslovsky, while not getting off his horse, took off his cap and, welcoming a guest, was happy to wave ribbons over her head.
'This is Princess Varvar,' replied Anna to Dolly's question-and-answer look when the charaban arrived.
'Ah! 'Daria Alexandrovna said, and her face was involuntarily expressing displeasure.'
Princess Varvar was her husband's aunt, and she knew her for a long time and did not respect her.
She knew that Princess Barbara had spent the rest of her life as a suitor of wealthy relatives; but that she now lived with a stranger, the woman, had insulted her for her husband's family.
Anna noticed Dolly's face and was confused, blushing, letting the Amazon out of her hand, and stumbled on it.
Daria Alexandrovna approached the stopped Charabana and said hello to Princess Barbara coldly.
Sviyazhsky was a friend, too.
He asked how his freak friend was doing with his young wife, and when he looked at the runners' eyes and with the pram's wings paid, he asked the ladies to ride in the charabana.
'And I will go in this vegikul,' he said. 'The horse is peaceful, and the Princess is a great ruler.'
'No, stay as you were,' said Anna who came, 'and we will ride in a wheelchair,' and she took her away under Dolly's hand.
Daria Alexandrovna had turned his eyes on this elegant crew she had never seen, on these beautiful horses, on these elegant shiny faces that surrounded her.
More than anything else, however, she was struck by the change that took place in Anna's friend and loved one.
Another woman, less considerate, who did not know Anna before, and especially who did not think the thoughts she thought were dear, would not notice anything special about Anna.
But now Dolly was struck by the temporary beauty that only in moments of love comes to women and that she now finds on Anna's face.
Everything in her face: the certainty of the cheeks and chins, the lip store, the smile that would fly around her face, the glitter of her eyes, the grace and the speed of her movements, the fullness of the sounds of her voice, even the manner with which she responded angryly to Veslovsky, who asked her permission to sit on her cob to learn his halope from her right leg -- everything seemed particularly attractive; and she seemed to know it herself and rejoiced at it.
When both women got into the wheelchair, they were suddenly embarrassed.
Anna was appalled by Dolly &apos; s careful and question-and-question look at her; Dolly &apos; s feeling that after Sviyazhski &apos; s words about vegikul, she was involuntarily ashamed of her filthy old stroller, in which Anna sat with her.
Brother Philip and the clerk felt the same way.
In order to cover up his confusion, the clerk freaked out, setting the ladies up, but Philip became dark and prepared to go ahead and disobey that external superiority.
He ironically smiled, looking at the raven rat and deciding in his mind that the raven in the charban was only good for the prom and wouldn't go through the 40 crisp in the heat in one rod.
The men all came up from the cart and looked at the guest's meeting in a curious and fun way, making comments.
'I'm also happy, I haven't seen you in a long time,' said the curly old man tied up in an abdomen.
'Here, Uncle Gerasim, a raven stud would drive his snots, now!
'Look at this.
Is that the woman in the pants? 'One of them said, pointing to Vasenka Veslovsky, who sat on the saddle.'
'No, man.
You know how clever that sounds!
'What, you guys, we're not going to sleep, are we?
'What a dream today!' said the old man, looking at the sun. 'It's noon, look, it's gone!
Take the hooks, come in!
Anna looked at the thin, worn-out, dusty face of Dolly, and wanted to say what she thought -- precisely that Dolly had lost weight; but when she remembered that she had died herself and that Dolly &apos; s eyes had told her that, she sighed and spoke of herself.
'You are looking at me,' she said, 'and you think I can be happy in my position?'
Well, then!
Shame on you; but I'm... I'm unforgivably happy.
Something magical has happened to me, like a dream, when it's scary, it's creepy, and suddenly you wake up and feel that all these fears are gone.
I'm awake.
I have survived a painful, terrible and long time ago, especially since we've been here so happy! 'She said, with a humble smile of question, looking at Dolly.
'How glad I am! 'Smileing,' said Dolly, involuntarily colder than she wanted. 'I am very happy for you.
Why didn't you write to me?
'Why?'
Because I didn't dare... you forget my position...
'To me?
You didn't?
If you knew how I...
I think...
Daria Alexandrovna wanted to say her thoughts this morning, but for some reason she didn't think it was the right place.
'Of course, after that.'
What are all these buildings? 'She asked, wanting to change the conversation and pointing to the red and green roofs seen from the greens of the living fences, the acacia and the sirens.' 'Surely a town.
But Anna didn't answer her.
'No, no!
What do you think of my situation, what do you think? 'She asked.'
'I suppose...' started with Darya Alexandrovna, but at that time Vasenka Veslovsky, putting a golf cart on his right leg, slapping heavy in his short jacket about the castle of the lady's saddle, pawned past them.
'Okay, Anna Arkadievna! 'He screamed.'
Anna didn't even look at him; yet again, Daria Alexandrovna seemed uncomfortable to start this long conversation in a wheelchair, so she reduced her mind.
'I don't think anything,' she said, 'and I have always loved you, and if you do, you love all the man he is, not what I want him to be.
Anna, taking her eyes off her friend's face and conversing (this was a new habit that Dolly did not know after her), wondered about the meaning of these words.
And apparently, when she understood them the way she wanted, she took a look at Dolly.
'If you had sins,' she said, 'they would all have forgiven you for coming and saying those words.
And Dolly saw that tears came to her eyes.
She shook Anna's hand silently.
'So what are these buildings?'
There's so many of them! -- after a minute of silence, she repeated her question.
'These are the employees' houses, the factory, the stables,' replied Anna. 'And this park begins.
It's all been launched, but Alexei's recommenced.
He's very fond of that name, and what I didn't expect was he was passionate about the house.
It's such a rich nature, though!
Whatever he's doing, he's doing great.
Not only does he not miss you, but he does it with passion.
He -- as I know him -- he's made a calculated, beautiful master, he's even niggardly in the household.
But only in the house. Where tens of thousands are involved, he does not think,' she spoke with the joyous, clever smile with which women often speak about the secret, which is one of the open qualities of the loved one. 'Do you see this big structure?'
It's a new hospital.
I think it's gonna cost over a hundred grand.
It's his dad now.
And you know why this is happening?
The men asked him to give up cheaper than the meadow, and he said no, and I blamed him for being niggardly.
Of course not, but all together,' he started this hospital to show, you know, how he's not stingy.
If you want, c'est une petitesse; but I love him even more for it.
Now you're gonna see the house.
It's still a grandfather's house, and it's not changed outside.
'How good! 'Dolly said, looking at a beautiful house with columns, which was from the flowered green of the old trees of the garden, with unsatisfied surprise.'
'Isn't that good?
And from the house upstairs, the view is amazing.
They moved into a wooded and flowered yard, where two workers placed a baked flower club with unmade nostriled stones, and stopped in a winged approach.
'Ah, they are already here! 'Anna said, looking at the horses that had just been removed from the porch. 'Isn't that a good horse? It's a cob.
My favorite.
Bring her down here and give her some sugar.
Count where? 'She asked the two footmen who had jumped out.' 'Oh, there he is! 'She said, when she saw him come out to meet her with Veslovsky.'
'Where will you place the Princess?' 'Bronsky said in French to Anna, and without waiting for an answer he once again said hello to Daria Alexandrovna, and now he kissed her hand. 'In the big balcony, I think?'
'Oh, no, that's far away!
Better in the corner, we'll see each other more.
Well, let's go,' said Anna, who gave her lacquer's sugar to her favorite horse.
'Et vous oubliez votre dewoir,' she said, too, on Veslovsky's porch.
'Pardon, j'en ai tout plein les poches,' he answered smiling, dropping his fingers into his vest pocket.
'Mais vuis venez trop tard,' she said, rubbing a handkerchief on her hand, which had been soaked by a horse that had taken sugar.
Anna said to Dolly: 'How long will you be?
For one day?
That's impossible! 'I promised, and the children!' said Dolly, feeling embarrassed and because she had to take a bag of a wheelchair, and because she knew that her face should be very dusty.
'No, Dolly, sweetheart...'
Well, we'll see about that.
Come on, come on! 'And Anna took Dolly to her room.
This room wasn't the front room that Wronsky offered, but the one that Anna said Dolly would apologize for.
And this room that had to be apologized for was full of luxury that Dolly never lived in and reminded her of the best hotels abroad.
'Well, sweetheart, how happy I am! 'For a moment, sitting in her Amazon near Dolly,' said Anna. 'Tell me about yours.
I saw Steve a little bit.
But he can't tell us about the kids.
That my favorite is Tanya?
Big girl, I think?
'Yes, it is very big,' she briefly replied, wondering that she was so coldly responding about her children. 'We live well with the Levins,' she added.
'If I had known,' said Anna, 'you do not despise me... you would all have come to us.'
Because Steve is an old and big friend with Alexei,' she added and suddenly blushed.
'Yes, but we are so good...' answered Dolly with confusion.
'Yes, it is I who say foolish things out of joy.
One, sweetheart, how happy I am to see you! 'Anna said, kissing her again.' 'You haven't told me yet how and what you think of me, and I want to know everything.'
But I'm glad you'll see who I am.
I don't want them to think I want to prove anything.
I don't want to prove anything, I just want to live; I don't want to hurt anyone but myself.
That's my right, isn't it?
It's a long conversation, though, and we'll have a good talk about it.
Now I'm gonna go get dressed, and I'm gonna send you a girl.
When she was alone, she took a look at her room.
All she saw when she came to the house and walked through it, and now in her room, everything made her look like an abundance and affluence and that new European luxury she had read only in English novels, but had never seen before in Russia or in the village.
Everything was new, from the French new one to the carpet, which was wrapped up in the whole room.
The bed was a spring with a mattress and a special head and canauce pillowcase on small pillowcases.
The marble washer, the toilet, the couch, the tables, the bronze watches on the fireplace, the wardrobes and the porters were all expensive and new.
When she came to offer her services as a maid, in her hair and dress more fashionable than Dolly's, she was as new and expensive as the whole room.
Daria Alexandrovna was pleased with her courtesy, tidyness, and kindness, but was embarrassed with her. She was ashamed of her, as if she were in trouble, by mistake, of her paid shirt.
She was ashamed of the patches and stitched-up places she was so proud of at home.
At home, it was clear that six shirts required 24 Nunsuku's car at 65, which amounted to more than 15 rubles, except for trim and work, and these 15 rubles were won.
But in front of the maid, it wasn't embarrassing, it was awkward.
Daria Alexandrovna felt greatly relieved when her old friend, Annushka, entered the room.
Frantija the maid was required by the lady, and Annushka stayed with Daria Alexandrovna.
Annushka was apparently very happy to see the lady, and she kept talking.
Dolly noticed that she wanted to express her opinion about the position of the barn, especially about the Count &apos; s love and loyalty to Anna Arkadyevna, but Dolly carefully stopped her as soon as she started talking about it.
'I grew up with Anna Arkadievna, they are the most important thing to me.
Well, it's not up to us to judge.
Doesn't that sound like love?
'So, please, let me wash it, if possible,' interrupted her with Daria Alexandrovna.
'I'm listening.'
We've got two women on the ground, and we've got all the underwear in the car.
The Count gets to the bottom of everything.
What a husband...
Dolly was happy when Anna came in and stopped Anna's chatter when she came in.
Anna changed into a very simple batty dress.
Dolly looked closely at this simple dress.
She knew what it meant and how much money she bought that simplicity.
'An old friend,' said Anna to Annushka.
Anna wasn't embarrassed anymore.
She was completely free and calm.
Dolly saw that she was now fully recovered from the impression she had made of her arrival and took over the superficial, indifferent tone in which the door to the section where her feelings and soulful thoughts were locked.
'Well, what about your girl, Anna? 'I asked Dolly.'
'Ani? (That's what she called her daughter Anna.)
Hey.
She's very well.
You want to see her?
Come on, I'll show you.
An awful lot of trouble,' she began to tell,' with the nanny.
We had an Italian nurse.
It's good, but it's so stupid!
We wanted to send her away, but the girl's so used to her, she's still holding her.
'But how did you settle in?' 'The question began with Dolly as to what the girl's name would be; but when she noticed Anna's frowned upon face, she changed the meaning of the question. 'How did you arrange it?' Have you taken it already?
But Anna understood.
'That's not what you wanted to ask?
You wanted to ask about her name?
Really?
It's torturing Alexei.
She doesn't have a name.
So she was Karenina,' said Anna, squeezing her eyes so that only her eyelashes were visible. 'But, all of a sudden, with a bright face,' we will all talk about it afterwards.
Come on, I'll show you.
Elle est ters gentille. She's already crawling.
In the children's luxury that struck Darius Alexandrovna throughout the house, she was even more impressed.
There were carts out of England, and tools for learning to walk, and a deliberately designed sofa like billiards, for crawling, swinging, and baths are special, new.
All of this was English, solid and kind, and apparently very expensive.
The room was big, very tall and light.
When they came in, the girl in the same shirt sat in her chair by the table and had lunch with a broth that she poured all over her breast.
The girl was fed and apparently eaten with her herself by a Russian girl who served in the nursery.
There was neither a nurse nor a nanny; they were in the next room, and from there their words were heard in a strange French language, in which they could only speak to one another.
When she heard Anna's voice, dressed, tall, with a nasty face and an unclean expression from an English woman, quickly shaking the blonde bouquets, she entered the door and immediately began to make excuses, although Anna did not accuse her of anything.
"Yes, my lady."
A black-haired, black-haired, brown-haired girl, with hard-necked chicken skin, a red calf, in spite of the harsh expression with which she looked at her new face, was very fond of Daria Alexandrovna; she even envied her healthy appearance.
The way that girl was crawling, she also really liked it.
None of her kids crawled like that.
That girl, when she was put on the carpet and poked in the back of her dress, was amazingly nice.
She, like an animal, looked back on her big shiny black eyes and was clearly happy to see her face, smiling and holding her legs side by side, energyously held her hands and quickly pulled up her butt and grabbed her hands again.
But the general spirit of the child, and especially of the English, did not like Daria Alexandrovna very much.
Only by not going to a good family like Annina, Daria Alexandrovna explained to herself that Anna, with her knowledge of men, could take such an unsympathetic, unremarkable English girl to her daughter.
In addition, at once, she realized, according to several accounts, that Anna, a nurse, a nanny, and a child did not live together, and that the mother's visit was extraordinary.
Anna wanted to get the girl her toy and couldn't find it.
Surprisingly, when asked how many teeth she had, Anna was wrong and did not know at all about the last two teeth.
'It is hard for me sometimes that I am too much here,' said Anna, walking out of the nursery and wearing my plume to get past the toys standing at the door. 'That was not the case with the first one.
'I thought, on the contrary,' said Daria Alexandrovna shyly.
'Oh, no!
'Cause you know I saw him, Serezha,' said Anna, squeamishly looking at something far away. 'But that's what we'll talk about after.'
You're not gonna believe me, I'm definitely hungry, all of a sudden, and he doesn't know what he's gonna do.
Full lunch is you and the conversation I'm about to have with you, which I couldn't have with anyone, and I don't know what conversation I had before.
Mais je ne vois frai grace de rien.
I have everything to say.
Yes, you have to make an account of the society that you will find with us -- it has begun. 'Begin with the ladies.
Princess Varvar.
You know her, and I know your opinion and Steve about her.
Steve says the whole purpose of her life is to prove her advantage over Aunt Katerina Pavlovna; it's all true; but she's kind, and I am so grateful to her.
There was a minute in Petersburg when I needed an un chaperon.
That's where she came in.
But, right, she's kind.
She's made my position a lot easier.
I see you don't understand the gravity of my situation... there in Petersburg, she added. 'I am perfectly calm and happy here. Well, that's after.
I have to list it.
Then Sviyazhsky -- he's the leader, and he's a very decent man, but he needs something from Alexei.
You know, with his condition, now that we've settled in the village, Alexei can have a lot of influence.
Then Tushkevich,'you saw him, he was with Betsy.
Now he's gone, and he's here to see us.
He's, like Alexei says, one of those people who's very nice when you take them for what they want to look like, et puis, come il fat, as Princess Varvar says.
Then Veslovsky... you know that.
A very sweet boy,' she said, and a fluffy smile wrinkled her lips. 'What kind of wild story is this with Levin?'
Veslovsky told Alexei, and we don't believe it.
'Il est ters gentil et naif,' she said again with the same smile. 'Men need entertainment, and Alexei needs the audience, so I care about all of this society.
We need to have a lot of fun and fun and so Alexei doesn't want anything new.
Then the manager, the German, is very good and knows what he's doing.
Alexei really appreciates him.
Then a doctor, a young man, isn't exactly a nihilist, but, you know, he eats with a knife... but a very good doctor.
Then the architect...
Une petite court.
'Well, you and Dolly, Princess, you wanted to see her so much,' said Anna, walking out with Daria Alexandrovna on a large stone terrace, in which Princess Varvar sat in the shadows, behind the balls, embroidering the chair for Count Alexei Kirillovich. 'She says she doesn't want anything until lunch, but you tell her to serve breakfast, and I will go find Alexei and bring them all.
Princess Varvar nicely and somewhat patronizing Dolly and immediately began to explain to her that she had moved in with Anna because she had always loved her more than her sister, Katerina Pavlovna, the one who raised Anna, and that now that Anna had been abandoned, she felt it was her duty to help her during her transition, the most difficult period.
'The husband will give her a divorce, and then I will go back to my privacy, and now I can be useful and do my duty, no matter how hard it is for me, not as the others.'
And how sweet of you, how nice of you to come!
They live perfectly as the best spouses; they will be judged by God, not by us.
Isn't Biryusovsky and Aveniev...
And Nikandrov himself and Vasiliev and Mamona, and Lisa Neptune...
Nobody said anything, didn't they?
And it ended up being accepted by everyone.
And then, c'est un interieur si joli, si come il fat.
Tout-a-fait a l'anglaise.
On se reunit le matin au breakfast et puis on se se separa.
Everyone does what they want before lunch.
Lunch at seven o'clock.
Steve did very well to send you.
He needs to hold on to them.
You know, he can do anything through his mother and brother.
Then they do a lot of good.
He didn't tell you about his hospital?
Ce sera admirable, all from Paris.
Their conversation was interrupted by Anna, who found the men's society in the pool hall and returned to the terrace with them.
There was still a lot of time left before lunch, and the weather was beautiful, so several different ways were suggested to spend the remaining two hours.
There were many ways to spend time in Vozvolensky, and all of them were different from those used in Pokrovsk.
'Une partie de lawn tennis,' said Veslovsky, smiling with his beautiful smile. 'We are with you again, Anna Arkadievna.
'No, it's hot; it's better to walk through the garden and in the boat to show Daria Alexandrovna the banks,' he suggested.
'I agree with everything,' said Sviyazhsky.
'I think Dolly is the most pleasant walk, isn't he?'
And then she was on the boat,' said Anna.
It was decided.
Veslovsky and Tuskevich went to the bathing suit and they promised to make a boat and wait.
Two pairs went down the road, Anna with Sviyazhsky and Dolly with Vronski.
Dolly was somewhat confused and concerned about the completely new environment in which she found herself.
Distracted, theoretically, she not only justified but even approved of Anna's actions.
More often than not, moral women tired of the uniformity of moral life not only apologised but even envied her from afar.
Besides, she loved Anna with her heart.
But in reality, when she saw her in the midst of these strangers, with their new and good tone for Darya Alexandrovna, she was embarrassed.
It was especially unpleasant for her to see Princess Barbara, who had forgiven them for the comforts she had enjoyed.
In fact, being distracted, Dolly approved of Anna's action, but seeing the person for whom it was done was unpleasant to her.
Besides, Wronsky never liked her.
She thought he was very proud and saw nothing in him that he could be proud of but wealth.
But, against his will, he's here at his house, he's more impressed with her than ever before, and she couldn't be free with him.
She felt with him like she felt with a maid for a shirt.
Like a maid, she wasn't ashamed but embarrassed by the patches, and with him, she was always not ashamed but embarrassed by herself.
Dolly felt embarrassed and looked for the subject of the conversation.
Although she thought that with his pride he should dislike the praise of his house and garden, she did not find another object of conversation but told him that she liked his house very much.
'Yes, it is a very beautiful structure and a good, antiquated style,' he said.
'I loved the yard in front of the porch.
Was it?
'No!' he said, and his face was shining with pleasure. 'If only you could see this court this spring!
And he began, first carefully, and then more and more enthralled, drawing her attention to the details of the house and garden.
It was apparent that when he devoted a great deal of work to the improvement and adornment of his establishment, he felt the need to boast about them in front of the new face and rejoiced at the praises of Daria Alexandrovna.
'If you want to look at the hospital and aren't tired, it's not far away.
'Let's go?' he said, looking into her face to make sure she wasn't bored.
'Are you coming, Anna? 'He turned to her.'
'We shall go.
Isn't that right? 'She turned to Sviyazhsky. --Mais il ne fat pas laisser le pauvre Veslovsky et Tuskevich se morfondre la Dans le bateau.
We should send it to them.
Yeah, that's the monument he's gonna leave here,' said Anna, turning to Dolly with the same trick, knowing the smile she used to talk to about the hospital.
'O capital case!' said Sviyazhsky.
But he immediately added a slightly reprehensible remark in order not to appear to be giving warning. 'I am surprised, however, Count,' he said, 'like you, doing so much sanitation for the people, so indifferent to schools.
'C'est devenu tellement commun les ecoles,' said Vronsky. 'You know, it's not from that, but so I got carried away.'
This is the way to the hospital,' he turned to Daria Alexandrovna, pointing to the side exit from the alley.
The ladies opened the umbrellas and went on the sidewalk.
After going through a few turns and coming out of the trench, Daria Alexandrovna saw before her in a high place a large red, intelligent form, almost complete structure.
The iron roof, which had not yet been painted, was dazzlingly glittering in the bright sun.
At the end of the building, another, surrounded by forests, was laid out, and the workers in the aprons put bricks on the ponds and filled the pebbles and leveled the rules.
'How quickly your work is going!' said Sviyazhsky. 'The last time I was, there was no roof.
'By autumn, everything will be ready.'
'There's almost everything on the inside,' said Anna.
'And what is this new?'
'This is a doctor &apos; s and pharmacy &apos; s room, &apos; replied Wronsky, seeing him in an architect &apos; s short coat, and apologizing to the ladies, he met him.
As he walked around the creation from which the workers collected the limelight, he stopped with the architect and began to speak out.
'The Fronton goes further,' he replied, asking Anna what was going on.
'I said I should have raised the foundation,' said Anna.
'Yes, of course it would have been better, Anna Arkadievna,' said the architect, 'it has been missed.
'Yes, I am very interested in that,' replied Anna Sviyazhsky, who expressed surprise at her knowledge of architecture. 'We need the new structure to match the hospital.' And it was invented after and started without a plan.
At the end of the conversation with the architect, he joined the ladies and took them inside the hospital.
Even though the carnivals were still being finished outside and painted in the lower floor, almost everything was sewn upstairs.
They entered the first large room on the wide iron ladder to the site.
The walls were plastered to marble, the huge whole windows had already been inserted, only the floor of the park had not yet been finished, and the tablets, hardening the raised square, had left work to say hello to the gentlemen when they removed the tesems holding their hair.
'This is the reception room,' said Wronsky. 'There will be a puppet, a table, a closet, and nothing else.
'This way, let's go this way.
Stay away from the window,' said Anna, trying to dry the paint. 'Alexei, the paint has dried up,' she added.
They went from the reception to the hallway.
This is where Vronsky showed them the ventilation of the new system.
Then he showed the baths of marble, the beds with the extraordinary springs.
Then he showed one room after the other, the storeroom, the underwear room, then the oven of the new device, then the cars that wouldn't make any noise by bringing the right things down the hall, and a lot of other things.
Sviyazhsky assessed everything as knowing all the new developments.
Dolly was just surprised by what she had not seen until now, and in order to understand everything, she asked in detail what had been the obvious pleasure of Wronsky.
'Yes, I think it will be the only well-established hospital in Russia,' said Sviyazhsky.
'Aren't you going to have a maternity ward?' 'I asked Dolly.' 'It is so necessary in the village.
I often...
Despite his courtesy, he interrupted her.
'It is not a maternity home, but a hospital, and it is prescribed for all diseases except contagious diseases,' he said. 'Look at this...' and he rode to Daria Alexandrovna a newly-written chair for recovery. 'Look at this. 'He sat in the chair and moved him. 'He can't walk, he can't walk, he can't walk, but he needs air, and he drives, he rides...'
Daria Alexandrovna was interested in everyone, and she liked everything very much, but most of all, she was in love with Vronsky himself, with this natural naïve passion.
"Yeah, it's a very nice, good man," she thought sometimes, not listening to him, but looking at him and looking at his expression and thinking about Anna.
She loved him so much in her rebirth that she understood how Anna could fall in love with him.
'No, I think the Princess is tired, and the horses are of no interest to her,' said Vronsky Anna, who offered to go to the horse factory where Sviyazhsky wanted to see a new stallion. 'You supplicate, and I will escort the Princess home, and we will talk,' he said, 'if it pleases you,' he turned to her.
'I don't understand anything about horses, and I am very happy,' said a somewhat surprised Lady Alexandrovna.
She saw in the face of Vronski that he needed something from her.
She wasn't wrong.
As soon as they entered through the gate again into the garden, he looked in the direction where Anna went, and made sure that she could neither hear nor see them, he began:
'Did you guess that I wanted to talk to you? 'He said, laughing with his eyes at her. 'I am not mistaken that you are Anna's friend. 'He took off his hat and, by delivering a handkerchief, wiped out his wrinkled head.
Daria Alexandrovna didn't answer anything, and she only looked scaredly at him.
When she was alone with him, she was suddenly scared: laughing eyes and a hard look on her face scared her.
The most varied assumptions about what he's going to talk about in her head are, "He's gonna ask me to move in with them, and I'm gonna have to say no to him, or I'm gonna make a circle in Moscow for Anna...
Or isn't it about Vasenka and his relationship with Anna?
Is it about Kitty that he feels guilty?"
She anticipated all the unpleasant things, but she didn't know what he wanted to talk to her about.
'You have such an influence on Anna, she loves you so much,' he said, 'help me.
Daria Alexandrovna looked at his energyy face, which all went out in the shadows of the sun, again darkened the shadow, and expected what he would say next, but by sticking a cane to the chip, he walked silently behind her.
'If you have come to us, you, the only woman of Anna's old friends,' I do not think of Princess Barbara, 'I understand that you have done so not because you think our situation is normal, but because you understand the gravity of this situation and still love her and want to help her.
Did I understand you? 'He asked, looking back at her.'
'Oh yes,' answered Daria Alexandrovna, folding her umbrella, 'but...
'No,' he interrupted and involuntarily, forgetting that he was embarrassing his interviewer, stopped, so she should have stopped. 'No one more and more than me feels the gravity of Anna's situation. And that's understandable if you do me the honor of thinking of me as having a heart.
I'm the cause of this situation, and that's why I feel it.
'I understand,' said Daria Alexandrovna, involuntarily admiring him, how sincerely and firmly he said it. 'But precisely because you feel a cause, you exaggerate, I'm afraid,' she said. 'The situation is difficult in light, I understand.
'In the light of hell!' he frowned, quickly said. 'You can't imagine moral suffering worse than what she endured in Petersburg in two weeks... and I'm asking you to believe it.
'Yes, but here, until Anna... or you feel the need in the light...'
'The light! 'He said with contempt.' 'What need can I have in the light?
'Until then -- and this can always be -- you are happy and calm.
I can see from Anna that she's happy, she's perfectly happy, she's already told me,' said Daria Alexandrovna with a smile; and involuntarily, saying this, she now wonders if Anna is really happy.
But Wronsky seemed to have no doubt about it.
'Yes, yes,' he said. 'I know that she has come to life after all her suffering; she is happy.'
She's happy with the real one.
But I... I'm afraid of what awaits us...
My bad, do you want to go?
'No, it doesn't matter.
'Well, let's sit here.
Daria Alexandrovna sat on a garden bench in the corner of the alley.
He stopped in front of her.
'I see that she is happy,' he repeated, and doubting whether she is happy was even more striking to Daria Alexandrovna. 'But can it go on like this?
Is it good, if we did wrong, another question; but the lots have been cast,' he said, moving from Russian to French -- and we are bound for life.
We are united by the most sacred bonds of love.
We have a child, we may have more children.
But the law and all the conditions of our situation are such that they are the thousands of combinations that she now, resting her soul after all her suffering and suffering, neither sees nor wants to see.
And that's understandable.
But I can't help but see.
My daughter isn't my daughter, she's Karenina.
I don't want this deception!-- he said with an energy gesture of denial and looked down on Daria Alexandrovna.
She didn't answer anything, and she just looked at him.
He continued:
'And tomorrow is the birth of a son, my son, and he is legally Karenin, he is not the heir of my name or of my condition, and no matter how happy we are in the family and no matter how many children we have, there is no connection between me and them.
They're Karenina.
You will understand the hardship and horror of this situation!
I tried talking to Anna about it. It annoys her.
She doesn't understand, and I can't tell her everything.
Now look on the other side.
I'm happy with her love, but I have to have a class.
I found it, and I'm proud of it, and I think it's more noble than my former friends in court and in the service.
And no doubt I'm not gonna trade this case for their case.
I work here, sitting there, and I'm happy, happy, and we don't need anything else to be happy.
I love this activity.
Cela n'est pas un pis-aller, opposite...
Daria Alexandrovna noticed that he had confused his explanation at that point, and she did not understand it well, but felt that, as he began to talk about his personal relationship, which he could not talk about with Anna, he was now saying everything, and that the question of his activities in the village was in the same department of soulful thinking as the question of his relationship with Anna.
'So I continue,' he said, waking up. 'The important thing is that, while working, it is necessary to have the conviction that my cause will not die with me, that I will have heirs, &apos; which I do not have.
Imagine the situation of a man who knows ahead that his children and the woman he loves will not be his, and someone who hates them and doesn't want to know.
It's awful!
He wasn't talking, apparently, in a lot of excitement.
'Yes, of course, I understand that.
But what can Anna do? 'Darya Alexandrovna asked.'
'Yes, it brings me to the point of my conversation,' he said, making an effort to calm down. 'Anna may be dependent on her...'
Even to ask the king for adoption, a divorce is necessary. And that depends on Anna.
Her husband agreed to a divorce -- that was when your husband arranged it.
And now, I know he wouldn't say no.
You should've just texted him.
He was right to say that if she expressed her wish, he wouldn't say no.
Of course, &quot; he said sombrely, &quot; this is one of these Pharisees &apos; atrocities that only these people without a heart can do.
And he knoweth the torment of all the remembrance thereof, and when he knoweth it, he asketh her for a letter.
I know she's excruciating. But the reasons are so important that you have to pass a passer passus toutes se businesses de sentiment.
Il y va du bonheur et de l'existence d'Anne et de ses enfants.
I'm not talking about myself, although it's hard, it's very hard for me,' he said, threatening someone because it was hard for them. 'Well, Princess, I hold you shamelessly as an anchor of salvation.
Help me get her to write to him and demand a divorce!
'Yes, of course,' said Daria Alexandrovna thoughtfully, remembering her last date with Alexei Alexandrovich. 'Yes, of course,' she repeated with determination, remembering Anna.
'Take your influence on her, make her write.' I don't want to talk to her about it, and I can hardly talk to her about it.
'All right, I'll talk to you.
But why wouldn't she think so? 'Daria Alexandrovna said, all of a sudden, remembering Anna's strange new habit of sneaking around.
And she remembered that Anna was sneaking around when it came to the emotional aspects of life.
"It's right that she's staring at her life so she doesn't see everything," thought Dolly. 'I will certainly speak with her to myself and to her,' replied Daria Alexandrovna to his expression of gratitude.
They got up and went to the house.
When Dolly's trap returned, Anna carefully looked her in the eye, as if asking about the conversation she had with Vronski, but did not ask her in words.
'I think it's time for lunch,' she said. 'We haven't seen each other at all.
I'm counting on tonight.
Now we have to go get dressed. I think you are, too.
We all got dirty in the building.
Dolly went to her room, and she got funny.
She had nothing to wear, because she already wore her best dress; but to mark her cooking for dinner, she asked the maid to clean her dress, changed her sleeves and a bow, and put laces on her head.
'This is all I could do,' she said, smiling, saying to Anna, who in the third, again in an extremely simple dress, came out to her.
'Yes, we are very cranky here,' she said, as if apologizing for our dress. 'Alexei is pleased with your arrival, as he rarely does.'
He is firmly in love with you,' she added. 'Aren't you tired?
I didn't have time to talk about anything before lunch.
When they entered the living room, they found Princess Varvar and the men in black tuxedo.
The architect was in a freckle.
Wronsky introduced the doctor's and manager's guest. He introduced the architect to her at the hospital.
The fat butler, with a round shaved face and a broken white tie bow, reported that the food was ready, and the ladies rose up.
He asked Sviyazhsky to give his hand to Anna Arkadyevna, but he himself approached Dolly.
Veslovsky before Tuskevich gave her hand to Princess Barbara, so Tuskevich and the manager and the doctor went alone.
Lunch, dining room, dishes, servants, wine, and food not only matched the common tone of the new luxury of the house, but seemed to be even more luxurious and newer than anything else.
Daria Alexandrovna saw this new luxury for herself and, as the hostess of the house -- although she did not hope to apply anything seen to her house, it was all in luxury beyond her way of life -- she uninvolved herself with all the details and asked herself who and how she had done it.
Vasenka Veslovsky, her husband, and even Sviyazhsky, and many of the people she knew, never thought about it, and believed in the word that every decent master wanted to let his guests feel that everything he had so well was worth nothing to him, master, but was himself.
Daria Alexandrovna, on the other hand, knew that there was no such thing as a kid's breakfast swing and that someone else's attention should have been drawn to such a complex and beautiful device. And in the eyes of Alexey Kirillovich, how he looked around the table, and how he made a sign to the butler's head, and as Daria Alexandrovna suggested the choice between botwine and soup, she realized that everything was being done and supported by the master's own care.
Anna obviously had no more to do with it than Veslovsky did.
She, the Princess of Sviyazh, and Veslovsky were just as much guests as they enjoyed what was prepared for them.
Anna was only the hostess of the conversation.
And this conversation, which is very difficult for the hostess of the house under a small table, with faces like a manager and an architect, people of a completely different world trying not to make a living in an unusual luxury and unable to take a long part in a conversation, this difficult conversation Anna had with her usual tact, naturality, and even pleasure, as Daria Alexandrovna observed.
The conversation came about how Tuškevich and Veslovsky were alone in a boat, and Tuškevich began to talk about the last races in Petersburg at the Yacht Club.
But Anna, waiting for the break, immediately turned to the architect to get him out of silence.
'Nicolaj Ivanović was amazed,' she said about Sviyazhski, 'how the new structure has grown since he was here last time; but I myself have been on my own every day, and every day I wonder how soon it is coming.
'It is good to work well with his ladyship,' said the architect with a smile (he was dignified, respectful and calm). 'It is not like dealing with the authorities of the Republic.'
Wherever a stack of paper is written, I'm gonna report it to the count, we're gonna talk, and we're gonna say three words.
'American techniques,' said Sviyazhsky, smiling.
'Yes, there are buildings built rationally...'
The conversation turned to abuse of authority in the United States, but Anna immediately translated it into another topic to summon the manager out of silence.
'Have you ever seen a harvest car?' 'She turned to Daria Alexandrovna. 'We went to see when you were met.'
It's the first time I've seen it.
'How do they operate?' 'I asked Dolly.'
'It's like scissors.
A board and a lot of little scissors.
That's it.
Anna took her beautiful, white, ring - covered knife and fork and began to show.
She apparently saw nothing from her explanation; but knowing that she spoke nicely and that her hands were beautiful, she continued to explain.
'It is more like penknifes,' said Veslovsky, who kept an eye on her.
Anna almost smiled, but she didn't answer him.
'Isn't it true, Carl Federoritch, what's like scissors? 'She turned to the manager.'
'O ja,' answered the German. 'Es est ein ganz einfaches Ding,' began explaining the machine device.
'It's too bad she doesn't knit.'
I saw at the Vienna exhibition, knitting wire,' said Sviyazhsky. 'They'd be better off.
== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 'And the German, caused by silence, turned to Wronsky:' Das lasst sich ausrechten, Erlaucht. 'The German had already taken his pocket, where he had a pencil in a book in which he had figured it out, but when he remembered that he was sitting at lunch, and noticed the cold look of Vronski, he abstained. 'Zu complicirt, macht zu viel Klopot,' he concluded.
'Wunscht man Dochots, so hath man auch Klopots,' said Vasenka Veslovsky, shaking over the German. 'J'adore l'allemand,' he turned again with the same smile to Anna.
'Cessez,' she said to him, jokingly sharp. 'And we thought we'd catch you in the field, Vasily Semenić,' she turned to a doctor, a painful man, 'you were there?
'I was there, but I flew away,' answered the doctor with dark humour.
'So you've done a good exercise.'
'Great!
'Well, what about the old woman's health? I hope it's not typhoid?
'Tiff is not typhoid, not adventure.
'What a pity!' said Anna, and thus paying tribute to the housekeepers, turned to hers.
'And yet, according to your story, it would be difficult to build a car, Anna Arkadievna,' said Sviyazhsky.
'No, why not? 'Anna said with a smile, who said that she knew that in her interpretation of the machine device there was something nice, seen and Sviyazhsky.
It's a new feature of young coketicism that's distastefully struck Dolly.
'But the architecture of Anna Arkadievna's knowledge is amazing,' said Tushkevich.
'As I heard, Anna Arkadievna said yesterday, ‘In the strings and the plints,' said Veslovsky. 'Is that what I'm saying?
'No wonder when you see and hear so much,' said Anna. 'Are you sure you don't even know what the houses are made of?'
Daria Alexandrovna saw that Anna was displeased with the tone of playiness that was between her and Veslovsky, but she herself willingly fell into it.
Holmes did not act in the same way as Levin did in this case.
He apparently did not attribute any importance to Veslovsky's chatter and, on the contrary, encouraged these jokes.
'Oh, tell me, Veslovsky, how do the stones connect?
'Cement, of course.
'Bravo!
What's cement?
'Okay, like smudge... no, smudges,' said Veslovsky, glamorously.
The conversation between the lunches, with the exception of the dark silence of the doctor, the architect and the manager, did not stop, where it was slipping, where it was clinging and stabbing someone behind the living.
On one occasion, Daria Alexandrovna was hit by the living and was so hot that she even blushed, and then she remembered if she had said anything that was unnecessary and unpleasant.
Sviyazhsky spoke of Levin, telling his strange opinions that cars were only harmful in the Russian economy.
'I do not have the pleasure of knowing this gentleman Levin,' he replied with a smile, 'but perhaps he has never seen the machines he condemns. And if you've seen it and you've experienced it, it's something, and it's not foreign, it's some Russian.
What are the views here?
'In general Turkish views,' said Veslovsky with a smile, turning to Anna.
'I can't defend his judgment,' said Daria Alexandrovna in a flash, 'but I can say that he is a very educated man, and if he were here, he would know what to say, but I can't.
'I love him very much, and he and I are big buddies,' said Sviyazhsky with a good smile. --Mais pardon, il est un petit peu toque: by measure, he claims that both the land and the justices of the peace are not necessary, and he does not want to participate in anything.
'This is our Russian indifference,' said Wronsky, pouring water from the ice Countess into a thin glass on his foot, 'not feeling the responsibilities that give us our rights, and therefore denying these responsibilities.
'I do not know a more strict man in the performance of his duties,' said Daria Alexandrovna, annoyed by this tone of the superiority of Vronski.
'I did, on the contrary,' he continued, apparently affected by the life of this conversation. 'In contrast, as you see me, I am very grateful for the honour that was done to me, thanks to Nikolai Ivanovich (he pointed to Sviyazhsky), who chose me as an honorary justice of the peace.
I think it's my duty to go to the convention, to discuss a man's horse case as important as anything I can do.
And I'll be honored if I'm chosen vowel.
I can only repay it for the benefits I enjoy as a landowner.
Unfortunately, we do not understand the importance that big landholders should have in the State.
It was strange to listen to him calmly at his desk.
She remembered how Levin, who thought the opposite, was equally determined in his judgment at his desk.
But she loved Levin, so she was on his side.
'So we can count on you, Count, for the next convention?' 'Sviyazhsky said.' 'But we must go early so that the eighth is already there.'
Would you do me the honor of coming to my place?
'And I agree a little bit with your beau-free,' said Anna. 'Not like him,' she added with a smile. 'I'm afraid we've had too many of these social responsibilities lately.
As in the past, there were so many officials who needed an official for every case, so now all the public figures.
Alexei's been here six months now, and he seems to be a member of five or six different public institutions -- custody, judge, vowel, juror, horse of something.
Du train que cela va is gonna get away with this all the time.
And I'm afraid that with so many of these cases, it's just a form.
How many dicks are you, Nikolai Ivanovich? 'She turned to Sviyazhsky. 'I think it's over 20?'
Anna was joking, but in tone she felt annoyed.
Daria Alexandrovna, who had carefully observed Anna and Deuteronomy, immediately noticed this.
She also noticed that the face of his conversation immediately took a serious and persistent expression.
Noticed this and that Princess Varvar immediately, in order to change the conversation, spoke in haste about Peterburg acquaintances, and remembering what he was saying in the garden about her activities, Dolly realized that there had been some intimate quarrel between Anna and Vronski with regard to this issue of social activity.
Dinner, wine, a collection -- it was all very good, but it was all the way that Daria Alexandrovna saw at the dinners and the balls she got out of, and with the same character of impersonality and tension; and therefore, on an ordinary day and in a small mug, it made an unpleasant impression on her.
We sat on the terrace this afternoon.
Then they started playing lawn tennis.
The players split into two parties and placed themselves on a carefully leveled and killed croquetgraund, on both sides of a glacial grid.
Daria Alexandrovna tried to play, but she couldn't understand the games for a long time, and when she realized it, she was so tired that she sat down with Princess Barbara and only looked at the players.
Her partner Tuskevich also fell behind; but the others continued the game for a long time.
Sviyazhsky and Vronski both played very well and seriously.
They stared at the ball that was thrown at them, not in a hurry, not in a baggy, sneaking up on him, waiting for the jump, and clearly and correctly giving the ball a rocket, throwing it over the net.
Veslovsky played worse than others.
He was too hot, but he cheered up the players with his fun.
His laughter and screaming didn't stop.
He took off, like the other men, with the permission of the ladies, a smurf, and his large beautiful figure in the white sleeves of his shirt, with a bloated sweaty face, and a burgeoning movement, were smashed into memory.
When Daria Alexandrovna went to bed that night, as soon as she closed her eyes, she saw Vasenka Veslovsky passing through the crocodile.
Daria Alexandrovna wasn't funny during the game.
She did not like the continued playful relationship between Vasenka Veslovsky and Anna and the general indignity of the big ones when they were alone, without children, playing a child's game.
But in order not to upset others and spend some time, she, resting again, joined the game and pretended she was having fun.
All day she felt like she was playing the theater with better actors than she was and that her bad game was ruining the whole thing.
She came with the intention of staying two days if she lives.
But tonight, during the game, she decided she was leaving tomorrow.
The painful maternal care she hated so dearly now, after a day without them, appeared to her in a different light and pulled her towards her.
When she entered her room alone after evening tea and a night walk in the boat, she took off her dress and sat down to clean her liquid hair for the night, she felt greatly relieved.
She wasn't even happy to think that Anna was coming to her.
She wanted to be alone with her thoughts.
Dolly already wanted to go to bed when Anna came into her night suit.
During the day, Anna began to talk about matters of heart several times and stopped each time she said a few words. "Once we're alone, we'll talk.
I have so much to say to you,' she said.
Now they were alone, and Anna didn't know what to talk about.
She sat by the window looking at Dolly and recaptured all those who seemed to be inexhaustible, a stock of soulful conversations, and found nothing.
She thought at this moment that everything had already been said.
'Well, what about Kitty? 'She said, taking a heavy breath and looking at Dolly to blame. 'Tell me the truth, Dolly, isn't she mad at me?
'Are you angry?'
No,' said Daria Alexandrovna, smiling.
'But hates, despises?
But you know that doesn't say goodbye.
'Yes, yes,' said Anna, turning her back and looking out the open window. 'But it wasn't my fault. And who's to blame?
What's wrong?
Couldn't it be different?
Well, what do you think?
Could it have been that you weren't Steve's wife?
'Really, I don't know.
But tell me what...
'Yes, yes, but we're not done with Kitty.
Is she happy?
He's a wonderful man, they say.
'It is not enough to say that it is beautiful. I don't know better than a man.
'Ah, I am so glad!
I'm very happy!
It is not enough to say that a fine man,' she repeated.
Dolly smiled.
'But you tell me about yourself.
I have a long conversation with you.
And we talked to...' Dolly didn't know what to call him.
She was embarrassed to call him Count and Alexey Kirillich.
'With Alexei,' said Anna, 'I know what you said.
But I wanted to ask you straight, what do you think of me, my life?
'How can I say that all of a sudden?'
I don't know.
'No, you tell me...
You see my life.
But don't forget that you see us in the summer when you arrived, and we're not alone...
But we came early in the spring, we lived completely alone, and we're gonna live alone, and I don't want anything better than that.
But imagine that I live alone without him, alone, and this will be... I can see that it will often be repeated, that he will be out of the house half the time,' she said, getting up and sitting closer to Dolly. 'Of course,' she interrupted Dolly, who wanted to object, 'of course I will not hold him by force.
I don't.
It's racing, his horses are racing, he's on his way.
Nice to meet you.
But think of me, imagine my position...
Don't talk about it! 'She smiled. 'What was he talking to you about?
'He was talking about what I want to talk about myself, and it's easy for me to be his lawyer: whether there's an opportunity and if...' "Daria Alexandrovna has stumbled," to correct, to improve your position... you know how I see...
But still, if it's possible, we should get married...
'What do you mean, divorce?' 'Anna said. 'Do you know the only woman who came to visit me in Petersburg was Betsy Tverska?'
You know her, don't you?
Au fond c'est la femme la plus deprave qui exite.
She was in touch with Tuskevich, most vilely cheating on her husband.
And she told me she didn't want to know me until my position was wrong.
Don't think I'm comparing...
I know you, my dear.
But I couldn't help remembering...
Well, what did he tell you? 'She repeated it.
'He said he was suffering for you and for himself.
You may say it's selfish, but it's legitimate and noble.
He wants to, first, legitimize his daughter and be your husband, have a right to you.
'What kind of woman, a slave, can be as much a slave as I am in my position? 'It is darkly interrupted.'
'The most important thing he wants... is for you not to suffer.'
'It is impossible!
Well?
'Well, the most legitimate is that he wants your children to have a name.'
'What children? 'Not looking at Dolly and sneaking around,' said Anna.
'Annie and the future...
'He may be calm, I shall have no more children.'
'How can you say you won't?'
'It won't, because I don't want it.
And despite all her excitement, Anna smiled at the naive expression of curiosity, surprise, and horror on Dolly's face.
'The doctor told me after my illness. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
'No way! 'I opened my eyes wide,' said Dolly.
For her, it was one of those discoveries whose findings and conclusions are so enormous that at the first minute it just feels like you can't figure it out, but that there's a lot and a lot to think about.
This discovery, which suddenly explained to her all the families she had never understood before, in which there were only one and two children, caused her so many thoughts, thoughts, and conflicting feelings that she could not say anything and only looked at Anna with wide open eyes.
It was what she dreamed of today, dear, but now that she's discovered that it's possible, she's terrified.
She felt that it was too simple a solution to a complicated question.
'N'est co pas immoral' -- only she said, silently.
Think of the two choices that I have, either to be pregnant, that is, to be sick, or to be a friend, a friend of my husband, still a husband -- Anna deliberately said with a superficial and reckless tone.
'Yes, yes, yes,' said Daria Alexandrovna, listening to the very arguments she had given herself and not finding any more convincing in them.
'For you, for others,' said Anna, as if by guessing her thoughts, 'there may still be doubt; but to me...
You understand, I'm not a wife; he loves me as long as he loves me.
Well, how am I gonna support his love?
With this?
She pulled out her white hands in front of her stomach.
With extraordinary speed, as is the case in times of excitement, thoughts and memories were crowding in the head of Daria Alexandrovna.
'I,' she thought,' didn't attract Steve; he left me for others, and the first one he cheated on me did not hold him back because she was always beautiful and fun.
He left the one and took the other.
And is this what Anna will attract and hold the Count of Wronski?
If he's looking for this, he'll find toilets and manners even more attractive and funny.
And no matter the whites, no matter how beautiful her naked hands, no matter how beautiful the whole of her complete camp, her hot face because of these black hairs, he will find even better than he finds and finds my disgusting, pathetic and sweet husband."
Dolly didn't answer anything, and she just sighed.
Anna noticed this sigh of dissent and continued.
She still had arguments so strong she couldn't answer them.
'Are you saying it's not good?
But we must judge,' she continued. 'You forget my position.
How can I wish for children?
I'm not talking about suffering, I'm not afraid of them.
Think about who my kids are gonna be?
Unhappy children who will bear another's name.
By their very birth, they will have to be ashamed of their mother, their father, their birth.
'That's what divorce is for.
But Anna didn't listen to her.
She wanted to make up for the very reasons she's been convincing herself so many times.
'Why would I be given reason if I did not use it to prevent the poor from being brought to light?'
She looked at Dolly, but without waiting for an answer, she went on:
'I would always feel guilty about these poor children,' she said. 'If they are not, they are not unhappy at least, and if they are unhappy, it is my fault alone.'
These were the very arguments that Darwina made to herself; but now she listened and did not understand them.
"How can you be guilty of things that don't exist?" 'I thought she did.'
And suddenly she thought, could it be any better for her lover Grisha if he never existed?
And it seemed so weird to her, so weird, that she was waving her head around to dispel this confusion of spinning crazy thoughts.
'No, I don't know, it's not good,' she just said with an expression of grossness on her face.
'Yes, but don't forget what you are and what I am...'
And besides,' Anna added, despite the wealth of her arguments and the poverty of Dolly's arguments, as if she still realized it wasn't good, 'you don't forget the most important thing is that now I'm not in the same position as you.
The question for you is whether you want to have no more children, but for me, whether I want to have them.
And that's a big difference.
You see, I can't want that in my position.
Daria Alexandrovna didn't mind.
She suddenly felt that she had become so far away from Anna, that there were issues between them that they would never come together and that it was better not to talk about.
'All the more so you need to set your stage, if possible,' said Dolly.
'Yes, if possible,' said Anna suddenly in a completely different, quiet and sad voice.
'Isn't a divorce impossible?
I was told your husband agreed.
'Dolly! I don't want to talk about it.
'Well, let's not,' hastened to say to Daria Alexandrovna, noting the expression of suffering on Anna's face. 'I can only see that you are looking too dark.
Not at all.
I'm very fun and happy.
You saw, je fais des pasions.
Veslovsky...
'Yes, to tell the truth, I did not like the tone of Veslovsky,' said Daria Alexandrovna, wanting to change the conversation.
'Ah, not at all!
It tickles Alexei and nothing else; but he is a boy and all in my hands; you know, I run him as I please.
He's like your Grisha...
Dolly! 'She suddenly changed her speech,' you say, 'I am looking darkly.' You can't understand.
It's too horrible.
I try not to look at it at all.
'But I think I should.'
We have to do everything we can.
'But what can I do?'
Nothing.
You're saying to marry Alexei and that I don't think about it.
I don't think about it!! 'She repeated, and the paint appeared on her face.
She stood up, straightened her chest, sighed heavily, and walked her light walk back and forth in the room, occasionally stopping. 'I don't think so?
No day, no hour, no matter what I think or blame myself for what I think... because thinking about it can drive me crazy.
'Insane,' she repeated. 'When I think about it, I don't fall asleep without morphine.
But good.
Let's talk calmly.
I'm told -- divorce.
First of all, he won't give it to me.
He is now under the influence of Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
Daria Alexandrovna, when she reached out on the chair, followed her head with her empathetic face, turning her head, following Anna's walker.
'We have to try,' she said quietly.
'Let's try.
What does that mean? 'She said, apparently, an idea, a thousand times rethinked and memorized.' 'It means that I, who hates him but still pleads guilty to him,' and I think he is generous, 'I shall be humiliated to write to him...
Well, let's put it down, I'll make an effort, I'll do it.
Either I get the offensive answer or I get the consent.
Okay, I got the consent...' Anna was in the back of the room at the time, and she stopped there doing something about the curtain window.
I'll get the consent, and the sa... son?
They won't give it to me.
'Cause he's gonna grow up despiseing me, with the father I left behind.
You understand what I love -- I think it's equal, but both of them are bigger than themselves, two creatures -- Serezha and Alexei.
She went into the middle of the room and stopped in front of Dolly, holding her breasts.
In the white foam, her figure seemed particularly large and wide.
She leaned over her head and looked on her back with shining, wet eyes on a small, thin, pitiful shirt and a nightcap that shivered from Dolly's excitement.
'Only these two creatures I love, and one rule out the other.
I can't connect them, and that's one thing I need.
And if it doesn't, it doesn't matter. Whatever.
And it's gonna end somehow, and that's why I can't, I don't like talking about it.
So don't blame me, don't judge me about anything.
You can't understand with your purity all the things I suffer.
She came up, sat next to Dolly, and with a guilty look in her face, she took her hand.
'What do you think?
What do you think of me?
Don't despise me.
I don't deserve contempt.
I'm not happy.
If anyone is unhappy, it is me,' she said, and when she turned her back on her, she cried.
Left alone, Dolly prayed to God and went to bed.
She felt sorry for Anna while she was talking to her; but now she couldn't make herself think of her.
The memories of the house and the children with a special, new beauty to her, in some new radiance, appeared in her imagination.
This world of hers now seemed so precious and sweet that she never wanted to spend another day outside of it and decided that tomorrow would definitely leave.
In the meantime, when Anna returned to her office, she took a drink and injected it with a few drops of medicine, in which morphine was an important part, and after having drank and sat still for some time, she went to the bedroom with a calm and merry spirit.
When she entered the bedroom, Wronsky carefully looked at her.
He was looking for traces of that conversation he knew she, staying in Dolly's room for so long, should have had with her.
But in her expression, enthralled and hidden, he found nothing but his usual, yet still captivating his beauty, her consciousness, and the desire for her to act on him.
He didn't want to ask her what they were saying, but he was hoping she'd say something herself.
But all she said was,
'I'm glad you liked Dolly.
Isn't that right?
'I've known her a long time.
She's very kind, I think, mais expressivement terre-a-terre.
But I was really happy with her.
He took Anna's hand and looked her in the eye.
She didn't understand that look. I smiled at him.
The next morning, despite the begging of the masters, Daria Alexandrovna was about to leave.
Levin's drawer, in his not-new kaftan and semi-Ishma's hat, on his various horses, in a stroller with its wings paid, smoldering and determinedly moved into a covered, sandy approach.
Farewell to Princess Barbara, with men, was unpleasant to Daria Alexandrovna.
After a day, she and the owners felt clearly that they did not fit together and that it was better for them not to come together.
One Anna was sad.
She knew that now that Dolly was gone, no one would ever bother her with the feelings she felt when she was dating.
Disturbing her feelings was painful, but she knew that it was the best part of her soul and that that part of her soul quickly grew up in the life she had led.
On her way to the field, Daria Alexandrovna had a pleasant feeling of relief, and she wanted to ask the people how they liked it when Philip's coach said:
'The rich are rich, and the oats only took three measures.'
The roosters have been cleaned up.
Well, what's three measures? I'm just gonna get something to eat.
There's an oatmeal in front of the janitors today. Forty-five bucks.
We must have as much to eat as they give us.
'Spendable barn,' confirmed the clerk.
'Well, did you like their horses? 'I asked Dolly.'
'Horses are one word.'
And the food is good.
And so it seemed boring to me, Daria Alexandrovna, I don't know how you are,' he said, turning his beautiful and kind face towards her.
'And so do I.
Well, shall we get there by tonight?
'We have to get there.'
When she returned home and found everyone quite happy and especially nice, she spoke with great excitement about her journey, about how well she was received, about the luxury and good taste of the life of Deuteronomy, about their joys, and did not give anyone a word to speak against them.
'I need to know Anna and Wronsky,' I recognized him more now, 'to understand how sweet and touching they are,' she said quite frankly, forgetting the uncertain sense of displeasure and awkwardness she felt there.
While in the same circumstances, they did not take any measures to divorce, they lived all summer and part of the autumn in the village.
It was decided between them that they would not go; but both felt that they were living alone, especially in the autumn and without guests, that they would not survive this life, and that they would have to change it.
Life seemed to be what it was best not to want: full of wealth, health, a child, and both had classes.
Anna did the same without the guests and did a lot of reading -- and novels and serious books that were fashionable.
She wrote all the books mentioned with praise in the foreign newspapers and magazines she received, and with care for what she read, which is only in solitude, she read them.
In addition, she studied all the subjects she had studied in books and special magazines, so he often addressed her directly with agronomic, architectural, even sometimes connoisseur and athlete issues.
He wondered at her knowledge, her memory, and at first he wanted to prove himself, and she found in the books what he asked and showed him.
The hospital's device also occupied her.
Not only did she help, but she did a lot and she made it up.
But the main concern of her was she herself -- she herself, how much she cares about Wronski, how much she can replace everything he left for him.
Holmes appreciated this, made the only goal of her life, not only to please but to serve him, but also to bear with the love networks that she tried to confuse him with.
The more time went by, the more he saw himself wrapped up in these networks, the more he wanted not to leave them, but to try to see if they interfered with his freedom.
If it weren't for all the growing desire to be free, not to have a scene every time he had to go to town for a convention, to run, Wronsky would be quite happy with his life.
Not only did he enjoy the role he had chosen, the role of the rich landowner, which should be the core of Russian aristocracy, but now, after six months of life, he enjoyed him increasingly.
And his business was taking on more and more and bringing him in, and it was going great.
Despite the huge amount of money that the hospital cost him, the cars, the cows cut out of Switzerland, and so on, he was convinced that he had increased his fortune, not upset him.
Where it was about income, the sale of forests, bread, wool, the return of the land, he was as strong as a cream, and he was able to bear the price.
In large-scale business and in this and other properties, he maintained the simplest, unrisked techniques and was extremely careful and calculated for household change.
Despite all the craftsmanship and craftsmanship of the German, who lured him into buying and making every calculation that was needed at first much more, it was possible to do the same and cheaper, and to benefit immediately, he did not yield to it.
He listened to the manager, questioned him, and agreed with him only when the discharge or arrangement was the newest, yet unknown in Russia, could provoke surprise.
In addition, he decided to spend a great deal of money only when there was extra money, and in doing so, he went to every detail and insisted on having the best for his money.
So by the way he handled things, it was clear that he had increased his fortune, not upset him.
In October, there were the noble elections in Kashin Province, where there were the estates of Vronsky, Sviyazh, Koznyshev, Oblon, and a small part of Levin.
These elections, for many reasons and by those who participated in them, drew public attention.
They've been talked about a lot, and they've been prepared for them.
The Moscow, Petrenburg and overseas residents, who had never been elected, had moved to those elections.
Vronsky promised Sviyazhsky a long time ago to take them.
Before the election, Sviyazhsky, who often visited Vozvolensky, came to pick up Vronski.
On the eve of that day, there was almost an argument between Wronski and Anna for this supposed trip.
It was the most difficult, boring time in the village in the autumn, and, preparing to fight, with a strict and cold expression, as he had never spoken to Anna before, announced his departure.
But to his surprise, Anna accepted the news very calmly and asked only when he would return.
He looked at her carefully, not realizing this calm.
She smiled at him.
He knew her ability to walk away and knew that it only happened when she decided to do something about herself without telling him her plans.
He was afraid of it; but he was so eager to avoid the scene that he had pretended and partly sincerely believed what he wanted to believe -- her wisdom.
'I hope you won't miss me?
'I hope so,' said Anna. 'I got a box of books from Gautier yesterday.
No, I won't miss you.
"She wants to take that tone, and all the better," he thought, "it's all the same."
And without calling her to an honest explanation, he left for the election.
It was the first time they started to connect that he broke up with her without explaining it to the end.
On the one hand, it bothered him, on the other hand, he found it better.
"At first, it'll be like now, something unclear, hidden, and then she'll get used to it.
Anyway, I can give everything to her, but not my male independence," he thought.
Levin moved to Moscow in September to give birth to Kitty.
He had already lived without a job for a month in Moscow, when Sergei Ivanovic, who had a name in Kashin province and had taken a great part in the upcoming elections, was about to go to the elections.
He called with him and his brother, who had a ball in the village of Celesniev.
In addition, Levin had an extremely important custody and ransom case for his sister living abroad in Kashin.
Levin was still indecisive, but Kitty, who saw that he was bored in Moscow and advised him to go, ordered him, in addition to him, a noble uniform worth eighty rubles.
And these eighty rubles paid for the uniform were the main reason Levin had to go.
He went to Kashin.
Levin had been in Kashin for the sixth day, visiting a congregation every day and clapping about his sister's case, which was not going well.
The leaders were all engaged in elections, and the very simple case that depended on guardianship could not be achieved.
Another case, the receipt of money, encountered obstacles in the same way.
After a long struggle to lift the ban, the money was ready for extradition; but the notary, the most helpful person, could not issue the plate because he needed the Chairman &apos; s signature, and the chairman, without having passed the post, was at the session.
All these troubles, walking from place to place, talking to very kind, good people who understand the unpleasantness of the applicant &apos; s position, but who are unable to help him, all these tensions, which do not produce any results, have produced in Levin a painful feeling, similar to the annoying powerlessness that you experience in your sleep when you want to use physical force.
He experienced it often by talking to his most good - hearted attorney.
He seemed to have done everything in his power and worked hard to get Levin out of trouble.
"Here's what you're gonna try," he said many times, "Go there and there and there," and the attorney made a whole plan to get past that fatal start that got in the way of everything.
But he immediately added, "They're gonna delay it, but try it."
Levin tried, walked, drove.
Everyone was kind and kind, but it turned out that the sidewalk was growing again at the end of the road, and again it was blocking the way.
It was particularly unfortunate that Levin could not understand in any way who he was fighting, who would benefit from the fact that his case did not end.
No one seemed to know that, nor did the confidant.
If Levin could understand why he could not approach the register on the railway without being in a row, he would not be offended or displeased; but in the obstacles he had encountered in the case, no one could explain to him why they existed.
But Levin had changed a lot since his marriage; he was patient, and if he did not understand what it was for, he said to himself that, without knowing everything, he could not judge what was probably so necessary, and tried not to resent.
Now, as he attended and participated in the elections, he also tried not to condemn, debate, but to understand how much was possible to understand the work that his esteemed honest and good people had done with such seriousness and passion.
Since his marriage, Levin has discovered so many new, serious parties, previously in a careless attitude that seemed to be insignificant, that he had anticipated and sought serious significance in the election process.
Koznyshev explained to him the meaning and significance of the electoral coup.
The Guberian leader, who was legally holding so many important public affairs -- and guardianship (the very ones from whom Levin was suffering) and noble sums, and gymnasiums of women, men &apos; s and military, and people &apos; s education on the new situation, but finally on the ground -- the Murderian leader of Snetkov was a man of the old noble warehouse, living a great fortune, a kind man of his own kind, who did not understand the needs of the new time.
He has always sided with the nobles in everything, directly opposed the spread of popular education, and made the earth, which should have such a great significance, sacrosanct character.
It was necessary to put in his place a fresh, modern, productive man, completely new, and to conduct the business in such a way as to extract from all the gifts to the nobles, not as nobles, but as an element of the earth, the rights of the benefits of self-government that could be derived.
In the rich Kashin Obernia, which has always been in front of others, there is now such strength that the case presented here could serve as a model for other worlds, for the whole of Russia.
And that's why the whole thing was important.
Snetkov's leader was supposed to be either Sviyazhski or, better yet, Nevedovsky, a former professor, a wonderfully intelligent man and a great friend, Sergei Ivanovich.
The meeting was opened by the Governor, who gave a speech to the nobles so that they would not choose officials on their own behalf, but on merit and for the sake of the fatherland, and that he hoped that the Kachin noble noblery, as in the previous elections, would perform his duty in a sacred manner and live up to the high trust of the monarch.
At the end of the speech, the governor went out of the hall, and the nobles were noisy and lively, some even enthralled, followed him and surrounded him while he was wearing a coat and talking friendlyly to the governor of the Republic.
Levin, wishing to understand everything and not miss anything, stood right in the crowd and heard the governor say, "Please tell Maria Ivanovna that the wife is very sorry that she's going to the shelter."
And then the nobles took out the fur coats funny, and everyone went to the cathedral.
In the Cathedral, Levin, along with others, raised his hand and repeated the words of the protopopus, vowed by the most terrible oaths to carry out all that the Governor had hoped for.
The church service always had an influence on Levin, and when he said the words "a whole cross" and looked back at the crowd of these young and old people who repeated the same thing, he felt touched.
On the second and third day, there were cases concerning the amounts of the nobles and the women &apos; s gymnasium, which, as Sergei Ivanov explained, were of no importance, and Levin, busy in his business, did not follow them.
On the fourth day, a check was made at the Paris table. This was the first time that a new party clashed with the old one.
The commission charged with believing the sums reported to the assembly that the sums were all intact.
The Guberian leader stood up, thanks to the nobles, and he cried.
The nobles greeted him loudly, and touched his hand.
At that time, however, a nobleman from the Sergei Ivanovic party said that he had heard that the commission did not believe the amounts, considering the verification to be an insult to the governor of the Republic.
One of the members of the commission inadvertently confirmed that.
At that time, one small, very young man in appearance, but a very poisonous gentleman began to say that the governor of the Republic would probably be pleased to report the amounts and that the excessive sensitivity of the members of the commission deprived him of that moral satisfaction.
At that time, the members of the commission retracted their statement, and Koznyshev began to logically prove whether or not they believed or were not, and developed this dilemma in detail.
Sergei Ivanovic objected to the talker of the opposing party.
Then Sviyazhsky spoke, and again the poisoned master.
The debate went on for a long time and it didn't end.
Levin was surprised that this had been disputed for so long, especially because when he asked Sergei Ivanovich if he assumed that the sums had been spent, Sergei Ivanovic replied:
He's an honest man. But this old-fashioned family administration of noble affairs had to be shaken.
The fifth day was the election of county leaders.
It's been quite a rough day in some counties. In Selezenev County, Sviyazhsky was elected without a unanimous vote, and he had lunch on that day.
On the sixth day, the provincial elections were scheduled.
The halls, large and small, were filled with nobles in various uniforms.
A lot of people have only come to this day.
Long-standing acquaintances who came from Crimea, who came from Petersburg, who came from abroad, met in the halls.
There was a debate at the Paris table, under the portrait of the king.
The nobles and in the large and small hall were banding in camps, and, out of hostility and mistrust, the silenced chatter on the approach of strangers, the fact that some, whispering, even in the distant corridor, showed that each side had secrets from the other.
By appearance, the nobles were sharply divided into two classes: old and new.
The old were more part or part of the noble old shackled uniforms, with swords and hats, or in their special, naval, cavalry, infantry, well - served uniforms.
The Mundires of the old nobles were made old-fashioned, with booths on their shoulders; they were obviously small, short in their waist and narrow, as if their bearers had grown out of them.
The young men were in noble undressed uniforms with low talis and wide in their shoulders, with white vests, or in uniforms with black collars and laurels, sewing the Ministry of Justice.
The young belonged to court-martials, some of which decorated the crowd.
But the division between young and old did not coincide with the division of parties.
Some of the young, Levin observed, belonged to the old party, and some of the oldest nobles, on the other hand, whispered with Sviyazhsky and apparently were hot supporters of the new party.
Levin stood in a small room, where he was smoked and eaten, by his group, listening to what he had said, and trying in vain his mental powers to understand what had been said.
Koznyshev was a center near which others were banding together.
He now listened to Sviyazhsky and Clustov, the leader of another county belonging to their party.
Chlustov did not agree to go with his village to ask Snetkov to run, and Sviyazhsky urged him to do so, and Sergei Ivanovic approved the plan.
Levin did not understand why the hostile party was asking the leader they wanted to run for office.
Stepan Arkadić, who had just eaten and had a drink, rubbing a fragrant bastard with a handkerchief on his mouth, approached them in his Chamberlain uniform.
'We are in position,' he said, circling the two buckenbards, 'Hungry Ivanovich!'
And when he listened to the conversation, he confirmed Sviyazhsky's opinion.
'Enough of a village, and Sviyazhsky is apparently the opposition,' he said to everyone except Levin, understandable words.
'What, Kostya, and you must have tasted it? 'He added, turning to Levin, and took him under his arm.'
Levin would have been happy to have tasted it, but he could not understand what was going on, and when he had gone a few steps away from those who spoke, he expressed his surprise to Stepan Arkadyich, why he had asked the governor of the Republic.
'O santa simplicitas! 'Stepan Arkadić said, and gave Levin a brief and clear explanation of the matter.'
If, as in the last election, all the counties had asked the head of the Republic, he would have been elected by all the whites.
That wasn't necessary.
Now, eight counties agree to ask; if two refuse to ask, Snetkov may refuse to run. And then the old party can choose the other one from among its own, because the whole calculation will be lost.
But unless one of Sviyazhsky's villages asks, Snetkov will run.
They're even gonna pick him up and transfer him on purpose, so the opposing party's gonna lose count, and when they get a candidate out of ours, they're gonna transfer him.
Levin understood, but not quite, and wanted to ask a few more questions when all of a sudden everyone spoke, stitched up, and moved into the big room. 'What is it? What? Who? 'Confidence?' Who? What? 'Do they deny it?' 'Trust is not. 'Flerov is not allowed. Well, what's on trial? 'They won't let anyone in. That's mean. 'The Law! 'Heared Levin from different sides and, along with all those who were in a hurry to miss something, went to the great hall and, close to the nobles, drew near to the table of the Horseman, whose head of the Republic, Sviyazhsky, and other conodors were in a heated dispute.
Levin stood quite far away.
The snoring of one nobleman and another squeaking with thick soles made it difficult for him to hear clearly.
From afar he heard only the soft voice of the leader, then the squealing voice of the poisonous nobleman, and then the voice of Sviyazhsky.
They argued, as far as he could understand, about the meaning of the article of the law and the meaning of the words: the person under investigation.
The crowd gave up to give way to Sergei Ivanovich, who was approaching the table.
Koznyshev, while awaiting the end of the speech by the poisoned nobleman, said that he felt that it would be best to deal with the article of the law, and asked the secretary to find the article.
The article stated that in case of disagreement, a vote must be taken.
Koznyshev read the article and began to explain the meaning of the article, but there was one tall, thick, slutty, with a beautiful mustache, in a narrow uniform with a collar behind his neck, which had a collar on him.
He went up to the table and hit him with a ring and screamed:
'Plotting!
To the balls!
There's nothing to talk about!
To the balls!
And suddenly there were a few voices, and a tall nobleman with a ring, more and more angry, screaming louder and louder. But you couldn't tell what he was saying.
He said what Koznyshev had proposed; but apparently he hated him and his entire party, and that feeling of hatred came to the attention of the entire party and provoked a similar, though more decent, reaction on the other side.
There were screams, and for a minute everything was mixed up, so the governor of the country had to ask for order.
'To run, to run!
If you're a noble, you understand.
We're spilling blood...
The Monarch's trust...
Not counting the leader, he's not the boss...
It's not that.
Let me see the balls!
Gross! 'We heard angry, violent screams from all sides.
The eyes and faces were even more angry and violent.
They expressed intransigent hatred.
Levin was completely unaware of what was going on, and was surprised at the passion with which he was dealing with whether or not to vote on Flerov.
He forgot, as Koznyshev then explained to him, the sillogism that for the common good it was necessary to overthrow the leader of the Republic; but to overthrow the leader it was necessary to have most balls; for most balls it was necessary to give Flerov the right to vote; and for Flerov to be recognized as capable, it was necessary to explain how the article of the law was understood.
'And one vote can solve the case, and one must be serious and consistent if you want to serve a public cause,' Koznyshev concluded.
But Levin forgot this, and it was hard for him to see these esteemed, good people in such unpleasant, evil excitement.
To get rid of that heavy feeling, he did not wait until the end of the debate to go to a room where there was no one but the footmen at the buffet.
When Levin saw the busy footmen over the washing of the dishes and the setting of the plates and drinks, and saw their calm, lively faces, he felt a sudden sense of relief, just as he had come out of the dark room to clean air.
He began to walk back and forth, looking at the footmen with pleasure.
He loved the way one footman with the gray buckenbards showed contempt for others, the young who were teasing him, teaching them how to fold napkins.
Levin was just about to enter into a conversation with an old footman, as a secretary of noble custody, an old man with a specialty to know all the nobles of the county by name and patronymic, entertained him.
'Please, Konstantin Dmitrich,' he said to him, 'the brother is looking for you.
An opinion is being cast.
Levin entered the hall, received a white balloon, and followed by his brother, Sergei Ivanovich, to a table with a significant and ironic face, gathering a beard into his fist and sniffing it, Sviyazhsky.
Koznyshev put his hand in the box, put his ball somewhere, and, giving Levin a seat, stopped right away.
Levin approached, but completely forgot what was going on, and embarrassedly asked Sergei Ivanovich, "Where to put?"
He asked quietly while they were talking nearby, so he hoped he wouldn't hear his question.
But those who spoke were silent, and his indecent question was answered.
Sergei Ivanovic frowned.
'It is a matter of everyone's conviction,' he said strictly.
Some of them smiled.
Levin blushed, rushed under his hand, and put it on the right, for the ball was in his right hand.
Put it down, he remembered. I said I had to put my left hand in, and I put it in, but it's too late, and I got even more confused, and I got back in the back.
'One hundred and twenty-six ballots!
Ninety-eight non-selective! there was a non-speakable letter r the voice of the secretary.
Then I heard a laugh: the button and two nuts were found in the drawer.
The noble was allowed, and the new party won.
But the old party didn't think it was a loser.
Levin heard that Snetkova was being asked to run, and saw that a crowd of nobles surrounded the governor of the Republic who said something.
Levin came closer.
In reply to the nobles, Snetkov spoke of the trust of the nobles, of his love, which he was not worthy of, for all his credit lies in his devotion to the nobles, to whom he devoted twelve years of service.
On several occasions he repeated the words: "I have served all my strength, faith and truth, and I appreciate and thank you", and suddenly he stopped from the tears that choked him and came out of the hall.
Whether these tears came from the awareness of injustice toward him, from the love of nobility, or from the tension of the position he was in when he felt surrounded by enemies, but the excitement was reported, most of the nobles were touched, and Levin felt tender to Snetkov.
In the doorway, the Leader of the Republic ran into Levin.
'I'm sorry, I'm sorry,' he said as a stranger; but when he heard Levin, he smiled shyly.
Levin thought he was going to say something, but he couldn't get excited.
The expression of his face and of all the figures in his uniform, crosses, and whites with galloons of pantalons, as he was walking in haste, reminded Levin of the grassy beast, who saw that his cause was bad.
This expression, in the face of the leader, was particularly touching to Levin, because yesterday he was the only one in the custody business in his home and saw him in all the greatness of a good and family man.
A large house with old family furniture; no stingy, filthy, but respectful old lacquers, apparently also of the old serfs, who did not change the master; a fat, good-natured wife in a hat with laces and a Turkish chalk, who caressed a pretty granddaughter, daughter of a daughter; a young son, a sixth-class gymnast, who came from a gymnasium and said good-bye to his father, kissing his big hand; impressive words of affection and gestures of the master -- all of which in Levin yesterday generated involuntari respect and compassion.
Levin was touched and pathetic by this old man now, and he wanted to say something nice to him.
'You must be our leader again,' he said.
'Iddidn't think so,' said the leader, fearfully looking back. 'I'm tired, I'm old.
There is more worthy and younger than me to serve.
And the leader went into the side door.
It's the most solemn moment ever.
Right away, we had to start the election.
The camouflage of both parties was calculated by white and black.
The debate about Flerov gave the new party not only one ball of Flerov, but also a time gain, so three nobles could have been brought in by the old party's wits who were unable to participate in the elections.
The two nobles, who were weak to blame, were drunk with Snetkov's slanders, and the third one had their uniforms taken away.
After learning about this, the new party was able to send a nobleman to the train driver during the Flerov debate and bring one out of the two drunken ones to the congregation.
'He brought one, poured water,' said the man who followed him, approaching Sviyazhsky. 'It's okay, it's okay.
'Not very drunk, will it not fall?' 'Pushing his head,' said Sviyazhsky.
'No, good for you.
Just don't get drunk in here.
I told the buffet to keep it out of sight.
The narrow room in which they smoked and ate was full of nobles.
There was an increase in anxiety, and there was a marked anxiety on all faces.
Of particular concern were cones that knew all the details and accounts of all the balls.
They were the masters of the upcoming battle.
The rest, though preparing for battle, were looking for entertainment for the time being.
Some were eating, standing, or sitting on a table; others were smoking papyros, back and forth in a long room, and talking to long - seen pals.
Levin didn't want to eat, he didn't want to smoke; he didn't want to get along with his people, that is, Sergei Ivanovic, Stepan Arkadyić, Sviyazhsky, and others, because he didn't want to join them in a lively conversation in the Stalmeister uniform.
Yesterday Levin saw him in the election and tried hard not to want to meet him.
He went up to the window and sat down, looking around the groups and listening to what was said around him.
He was sad, especially because everyone he saw was alive, concerned and busy, and he was alone with an old, toothless old man in a Navy uniform, chessing lips around him was uninterested and unworked.
'This is such a mess!
I told him no.
Oh, my God!
When he was three years old, he couldn't gather it,' said the slutty little dumpster, with his hair peeled, lying on the embroidered collar of his uniform, knocking with strong heels of new, apparently for the election of his boots.
And when the landowner threw a disgruntled look at Levin, he turned cool.
'Yes, it is an unclean matter to say,' said the little landowner with a thin voice.
Following these whole crowd of dumplings surrounding the fat general, he quickly approached Levin.
They were obviously looking for places to talk so they wouldn't be heard.
'How dare he say I told him to steal his pants!
He drank them, I think.
I don't care about him and his princess.
Don't you dare talk, it's a pig!
'Oh, let me do it!
They are based on the article,' said another group, 'The wife must be recorded by a noble woman.
'The hell with the article!
I'm talking to you.
The noble nobles.
Have confidence.
'Your Excellency, let's go, fine champagne.
Another crowd followed after something loudly screaming a nobleman: it was one of the three drunks.
'I have always advised Mary Semenovna to lease because she will not profit,' said the landowner with the gray moustache in the regiment of the old General Staff with a pleasant voice.
It was the same landowner that Levin met at Sviyazhsky's.
He recognized him immediately.
The landowner also looked at Levin, and they said hello.
'Nice to meet you.
Oh, my God! I remember very well.
Last year, Nikolai Ivanovich, the leader.
'Well, how's your farm going? 'I asked Levin.'
'All the same, at a loss,' said the landowner, with a humble smile, but with an expression of calm and conviction that it was the right thing to do, stopping by. 'How did you end up in our province?' 'He asked.' 'Are you here to participate in our team d'etat?' 'He said, firmly but ill speaking French words.' 'The whole of Russia has moved together: both the Chamberlains and almost the ministers. 'He pointed to the representative figure of Stepan Arkadiyić in the white pantalons and the Chamberlain uniform walking with the General.
'I must confess to you that I do not understand the meaning of the noble elections very well,' said Levin.
The lander looked at him.
'What is there to understand?'
There's no value.
A fallen institution that continues to move only in the power of inertia.
Look, uniforms -- and these say to you, this is a gathering of justices of the peace, non-members, and so on, not nobles.
'So why do you drive?' 'I asked Levin.'
'By habit, one.
Then we need to maintain contact.
Moral duty in some ways.
And then, to tell you the truth, there's an interest.
The son-in-law wants to run for non-precious members; they're not rich people, and we need to see him.
Why do these gentlemen drive? 'He said, pointing to the poisoned master who spoke at the table of the Republic.'
'This is a new generation of nobility.
'It's new. But not the nobles.
It's the land owners, and we're the landholders.
They're like nobles putting their hands on themselves.
'Cause you're saying it's an out-of-date institution.
'Cause he's old enough to be treated with respect.
At least Snetkov...
We're good, aren't we, we grew up a thousand years ago?
You know, you're gonna have to start a garden in front of the house, plan, and you're growing a hundred-year-old tree in this place, though it's brown and old, and you're all gonna have to take down an old man for flowers, and you're gonna plan it so you can use the tree.
He said carefully and immediately changed the conversation. 'Well, what about your farm?
'No, it's not.
Five percent.
'Yes, but you don't think you are.
You're worth something, too, aren't you?
I'll tell you what I'm talking about.
As long as I wasn't in charge, I got 3,000 in the line of duty.
Now I work more than I do in the service, and just like you, I get five percent, and God forbid.
Your work is for nothing.
'So why are you doing this?' If it's a direct loss?
'You are doing it!
What do you want?
It's a habit, and you know it.
I will tell you more, &quot; Reclining on the window and talking, the landowner continued, &quot; the son has no hunting for the house.
Obviously, there will be a scientist. So there's no one else to go on.
You do everything. Now I've planted a garden.
'Yes, yes,' said Levin, 'it is quite fair.
I always feel like there's no real settlement in my farm, but you do...
There's some responsibility to the ground.
'Let me tell you something,' continued the landowner. 'The neighbor of the merchant was with me. We went through the housekeeping, the garden.
"No, he says, Stepan Vasilić, you're doing okay, but you're in the garden."
He's okay with me. "To my mind, I'd cut that lime off.
Just the juice. 'Cause there's a thousand of them, and there's gonna be two good meadows out of every one of them.
And now the meadows are priced, and the strubs are gonna be sliced."
'And with that money, he would buy livestock or buy a landr for a price, and he would give the men their money,' said Levin with a smile, apparently faced with similar calculations more than once. 'And he will make himself a fortune.'
And you and I -- God forbid we keep our children.
'You're married, did I hear? 'The landowner said.'
'Yes,' answered Levin proudly. 'Yes, it is strange,' he continued. 'So we live without reckoning, and we live, as if we were ancient blisters, to keep a fire of some kind.'
The lander laughed under the white mustache.
'There is also one of us, if only our buddy Nikolai Ivanovic, or now Count Wronsky has settled, they want the industry to lead agronomics; but it still does not lead to anything except capital to kill.'
'But what aren't we doing as merchants for?'
Can't we cut down the garden on the meadows? 'Returning to what struck him,' said Levin.
'Here's what you said, fire to purify.
It's not a noble matter.
And our noble work isn't done here in the election, it's done there in its corner.
There's a real instinct, too, which should or shouldn't be.
Here are the men, I'll look at them another time, like a good man, so much land to hire as much as he can.
No matter how bad the earth is, it's all working.
I don't think so, either. It's a direct loss.
'So are we,' said Levin. 'It was very, very nice to meet you,' he added when he saw Sviyazhsky approaching him.
'And we met the first time after you,' said the landowner, 'and we talked.
'Well, have you won a new order?' 'Swiyazhsky said with a smile.
'Not without it.
'The soul was taken away.'
Sviyazhsky took him under Levin's hand, and went with him to his own.
Now I couldn't get past Wronsky.
He stood with Stepan Arkadyić and Sergei Ivanovich and looked directly at Levin's approach.
'It's a pleasure.
I think I had the pleasure of meeting... Princess Scherbatsky,' he said, giving his hand to Levin.
'Yes, I remember very much our meeting,' said Levin, and, blushing red, immediately turned away and spoke to his brother.
When he smiled a little, he continued to speak to Sviyazhsky, apparently without any desire to speak to Levin; but Levin, speaking to his brother, looked constantly at him, thinking about what to speak to him in order to make up for his rudeness.
'What's the deal now? 'I asked Levin, looking back at Sviyazh and Wronsky.'
'To Snetkov.
We need him to refuse or agree,' replied Sviyazhsky...
'What's he gonna do, yes or no?
'That's the point, none at all,' said Vronsky.
'And if he refuses, who will run?' 'I asked Levin, looking at Vronsky.'
'Who will,' said Sviyazhsky.
'Will you have it?' 'I asked Levin.'
'Not me,' said Sviyazhsky, embarrassed and agitated at the poison master standing next to Sergei Ivanovic.
'Who is it?'
Nevedovsky? 'Said Levin, feeling he was confused.'
But it was worse.
Nevedovsky and Sviyazhsky had two candidates.
'In no way did I,' answered the poisonous master.
It was Nevedovsky himself.
Sviyazhsky introduced Levin to him.
'What, and you were taken for living?' 'Stepan Arkadić said, winking at Vronsky.' 'It's like a race.
You can bet.
'Yes, it takes away the living,' he said. 'And now that I've taken the case, I want to do it.'
Fight! 'He said, frowning and squeezing his strong cheekbones.'
'What a Sviyazhsky businessman!
It's so clear to him.
'Oh, yes,' said Wronsky scatteredly.
There was silence, during which he looked at something, and looked at Levin, his feet, his uniform, and then his face, and when he noticed the dark, self-directed eyes to say something, he said,
'What do you mean, you're a permanent villager and not a justice of the peace?'
You're not in the uniform of a justice of the peace.
'Because I believe that the justice of the peace is a stupid institution,' answered Levin in a grim way, who was always waiting to talk to Vronski in order to make up for his rudeness at the first meeting.
'I don't think so, on the contrary,' said Wronsky with calm surprise.
'This is a toy,' interrupted Levin. 'We do not need justices of the peace.
I didn't have a case when I was eight. As for what he had, the matter was decided.
The Justice of the Peace is in my 40s.
I have a case to file in two rubles, send a solicitor who's worth fifteen.
And he told me how the man stole flour from the miller, and when the miller told him that, the man sued in slander.
All this was inconvenient and foolish, and Levin, while he said, felt it himself.
'Oh, it is such an original!' said Stepan Arkadych with his own almond smile. 'Let's go, though; I think they're running...'
And they broke up.
'I do not understand,' said Koznyshev, who noticed his brother's awkward act, 'I do not understand how one can be so devoid of any political tact.
That's what we Russians don't have.
The Huber leader is our opponent, you're with him, and you're asking him to run.
I will not make a friend out of him; he called for dinner, I will not go to him; but he is ours, why make an enemy out of him?
Then you ask Nevedovsky if he'll run.
It's not done.
'Oh, I don't understand anything!
And all this was nothing,' Levin answered with sadness.
'You're saying it's nothing, but you're gonna do it, so you're gonna mess it up.'
Levin shut up, and they entered the big room together.
The Huber leader, despite the way he felt in the air the catch he was making, and despite not everyone asking him, decided to run.
Everything in the room is quiet, and the secretary has announced loudly that he is running for president of the Guarantor's company, Michael Stepanovich Snetkov.
The county leaders came in with bowls of balls, from their desks to the town hall, and the elections began.
'Put it right,' whispered Stepan Arkadych Levin when he and his brother followed the leader to the table.
But Levin now forgot the account that had been explained to him, and feared whether Stepan Arkadić had mistakenly said "right."
Snetkov was the enemy.
As he approached the drawer, he held the ball in his right, but when he thought he was wrong, he put the ball in his left hand in front of the drawer and apparently then put it on the left.
The master of the case, standing at the drawer's doorstep, found out who was going to put it, wrinkled himself.
He had nothing to exercise his insight.
Everything's quiet, and I can hear the score of the balls.
Then a single vote proclaimed the number of voters and non-selectives.
The leader was chosen by a large majority.
Everything turned upside down and rushed to the door.
Snetkov came in, and the nobles surrounded him, congratulating him.
'Well, is it over now? 'I asked Levin of Koznyshev.'
'It is only beginning,' said Koznyshev Sviyazhsky, smiling. 'The candidate of the leader can get more balls.
Levin completely forgot about it again.
He only remembered now that there was some subtlety, but he was bored of what it was about.
He was depressed and wanted to get out of this crowd.
Since no one was paying attention to him and no one seemed to want him, he slowly went to the small room where he was bitten and felt very relieved to see the footmen again.
The old lacay offered him a meal, and Levin agreed.
After eating a cup of beans and talking to a footman about the former gentlemen, Levin refused to enter a room where he was so uncomfortable, went to go to the choirs.
The choirs were full of dressy ladies who overstepped the railing and tried not to throw a single word out of what was said downstairs.
Around the ladies, there were elegant lawyers, gymnasium teachers wearing glasses and officers.
Everywhere there was talk of elections and how the leader was exhausted and how good the debate was; in one group Levin heard praise for his brother.
A lady said to a lawyer:
'I'm so glad I heard Koznyshev!
It's worth it to be hungry.
Beautiful!
How clear and clear it is!
There's no one in your court who says that. There's only one Madele, and he's far from being so eloquent.
When Levin found a free seat at the railing, he turned over and watched and listened.
All the nobles sat behind the partitions in their counties.
In the middle of the hall, a man stood in a uniform and said with a thin, loud voice:
'Cause he's running for the Republican Chief of the Crown, Evgenius Ivanovich Apukhtin!
There was a dead silence, and one weak old voice heard:
'I refused!
'Peter Petrovich Bol is running for office,' began the voice again.
'I refused! 'A young screaming voice was given.'
It was the same thing again, and it was "no" again.
It's been like this for about an hour.
Levin, reclining on the railing, looked and listened.
At first, he was surprised and wanted to understand what it meant; then, after making sure that he couldn't understand it, he got bored.
Then, remembering all the excitement and anger that he had seen on all his faces, he was sad; he decided to leave, and went downstairs.
As the choir passed through the hay, he met a sad gymnast walking back and forth with his eyes swollen.
On the stairs, a couple met him: a lady running fast on her heels, and a light companion of the prosecutor's.
'I told you you wouldn't be late,' said the prosecutor, while Levin went sideways, missing the lady.
Levin was already on the exit stairwell and pulled his coat's numbers out of his pocket when the secretary caught him. 'Perhaps Konstantin Dmitrich is running.
The candidates were run so strongly by Nevedovsky.
Levin came to the door of the hall: it was locked.
The secretary knocked, the door turned open, and two red-blowers opened up to Levin.
'My urine is gone,' said one blushing landowner.
The landowner was followed by the face of the head of the Republic.
The face was scared of exhaustion and fear.
'I told you not to let go! 'He called out to the watchman.' 'I let you in, Your Excellency!
'Lord!' and, when he sighed hard, the leader of the Republic, was tired of sniffing in his white pants, putting his head down, he went to the middle of the hall to the big table.
Nevedovsky was transferred, as planned, and he was the head of the country.
Many were happy, many were happy, many were happy, many were excited, many were unhappy, and many were unhappy.
The Huber leader was desperate he couldn't hide.
When Nevedovsky left the hall, the crowd surrounded him and followed him with enthusiasm, just as she followed the governor who opened the election on the first day, and just as she followed Snetkov when he was chosen.
The newly elected Republican leader and many of the triumphant party had new dinners that day at Vronsky's.
He also came to the elections because he was bored in the village and had to claim his rights to freedom before Anna, and in order to repay the Sviyazh support in the elections for all his troubles in the ground elections, and above all in order to perform strictly all the duties of the nobleman and landowner he had chosen.
But he didn't expect this election case to take him so long, so it took him alive, so he could do it so well.
He was a completely new man among the nobles, but apparently he was successful and not mistaken, thinking that he had already gained influence among the nobles.
His influence was facilitated by: his wealth and greatness; a fine place in the city, which was given to him by an old acquaintance, Shirkov, who was in charge of financial affairs and had established a prosperous bank in Kashin; an excellent chef from the village; friendship with the governor, who was a comrade and still a patron friend of the city; and, above all, a simple, level relationship, which very soon forced the majority of the nobles to change the judgement of his perceived pride.
He felt himself that, apart from this slutty gentleman married to Kitty Scherbatsky, who a propos de bottes with a rabid grudge told him a bunch of nonsense nonsense, every nobleman he met was his supporter.
He clearly saw, and others acknowledged, that Nevedovsky's success was greatly enhanced by him.
And now at his table, celebrating Nevedovsky's choice, he felt a pleasant sense of celebration for his chosen man.
The election itself lured him so much that if he was married to the next three-year-old, he was thinking of running himself -- like, after winning the prize through the jockey, he wanted to ride himself.
Now the jockey's winnings were celebrated.
Vronsky was sitting in the head of the table, with a young governor, a Sweet General, sitting on his right hand.
For all of us, it was the master of the Province, who solemnly opened the election, who spoke and provoked and respected and slaveliness in many of the people he saw; it was Maslov Kathak, who had his nickname in the Paže Corps, who was confused in front of him, and whom he tried to mettre a son aise.
Nevedovsky sat on his left hand with his young, unshakeable and poisonous face.
With him he was simple and respectful.
Sviyazhsky was having a good time with his failure.
It was not even a failure for him, as he himself said, to turn to Nevedovsky with a glass: it was better not to find a representative of the new direction to be followed by the nobles.
So everything honest, as he said, stood on the side of today's success and celebrated it.
Stepan Arkadić was also glad that he had a fun time and that everyone was happy.
There were election episodes at a beautiful luncheon.
Sviyazhski comically delivered the leader's tearful speech and noted, in his address to Nevedovsky, that his Excellency would have to choose another, more difficult than tears, to check the amounts.
Another joking nobleman told me how the lacquers were made in the stockings of the Parisian leader's ball and how they would now have to be sent back if the new governor didn't give the lacquer ball in the stockings.
During the luncheon, Nevedovsky was called "our leader of the country" and "Your Excellency".
This was said with the same pleasure as a young woman called "madame" and by her husband's name.
Nevedovsky pretended not only to be indifferent, but also to despise this title, but it was obvious that he was happy and holding himself to the ground in order not to express enthusiasm that was not appropriate for the new liberal environment in which everyone was living.
Several telegrams were sent at lunch to those interested in the elections.
And Stepan Arkadić, who was having a lot of fun, sent a telegram like this to Daria Alexandrovna: "Nevedovsky is chosen by twelve balls.
Congratulations.
Pass it to me."
He dictated it out loud, saying, "Let's make them happy."
On the other hand, when she received the message, she sighed about the ruble by telegram and realized that it was at the end of the luncheon.
She knew Steve had a weakness at the end of her lunches "faire juer le telegrape".
Everything was, along with a great lunch and wine, not from Russian wine dealers, but straight across the border, very noble, simple and fun.
A circle of 20 people was chosen by Sviyazhsky of like-minded, liberal, new personalities and together witty and decent.
Drinked toast, also half-funny, and to the new governor of the Republic, and to the governor, and to the bank director, and to "our gracious master."
Wronsky was pleased.
He never expected such a nice tone in the province.
At the end of lunch, it was even more fun.
The governor asked Wronski to go to a concert in favor of a brother who was arranged by his wife, who wanted to meet him.
'There will be a ball there, and you will see our beautiful woman.
It's really great.
'Not in my line,' replied Vronsky, who loved that expression, but smiled and promised to come.
Just before we left the table, when everyone was smoking, Vronsky's valet came to him with a letter on the tray.
'From Vozvolensky with an addict,' he said with a significant expression.
'It's amazing how he looks like a friend of the Sventisky prosecutor,' said one of the guests in French about the valet, while Wronsky, frowning, read the letter.
The letter was from Anna.
Even before he read the letter, he already knew its contents.
Presuming that the election would be over by five days, he promised to return on Friday.
Today was a Saturday, and he knew that the contents of the letter were reproached that he had not returned on time.
The letter he sent last night probably didn't come back yet.
The content was what he expected, but the form was unexpected and particularly unpleasant to him.
"Ani is very sick, the doctor says there might be inflammation.
I'm the only one losing my head.
Princess Varvar isn't an assistant, she's a liability.
I've been waiting for you for the third day, yesterday, and now I'm sending you out to find out where you are and what you are?
I wanted to go, but I thought, knowing you'd feel bad about it.
Give me an answer so I know what to do."
The baby was sick, and she wanted to go.
The daughter is sick, and that hostile tone.
It's the innocent fun of the election, and that dark, heavy love that he was supposed to return to was struck by his opposite.
But he had to go, and on the first train, on the night, he went to his place.
Before he left for the election, after considering that the scenes that were repeated between them during each of his departures could only cool him down rather than tie him up, Anna decided to make every effort to handle his separation in peace.
But the cold, hard look he looked at her when he came to announce his departure, insulted her, and he had not yet left, just as her calm had already been destroyed.
Then, alone, by changing that view, which expressed the right to freedom, she came, as always, to one -- to realize her humiliation.
"He has the right to leave when and where he wants to go.
Not only to leave, but to leave me.
He has every right, I don't have any.
But knowing that, he shouldn't have done it.
But what did he do?
He looked at me with a cold, strict expression.
Of course, it is indeterminate, intangible, but it was not before, and that look means a lot,' she thought. 'This look shows that cooling is beginning.'
Although she was convinced that cooling was beginning, she had nothing to do with it, there was nothing to change her relationship with him.
Just as in the past, she could hold him in love and appeal. And just like she used to, by studying during the day and morphine at night, she could muffle the scary thoughts about what would happen if he didn't love her anymore.
True, there was another means: not to hold him; for that she did not desire anything but his love; but to draw close to him, to be in such a position that he would not leave her.
It was a means of divorce and marriage.
And she wanted it and decided to agree the first time he or Steve would talk to her about it.
In such thoughts she spent five days without him, the very ones he should have been absent.
Walks, conversations with Princess Barbara, visits to the hospital, and most importantly reading, reading one book after another took her time.
But on the sixth day, when the crucifix came back without him, she felt that she couldn't stop thinking about him and what he was doing there.
That's when her daughter got sick.
Anna went after her, but it didn't distract her, especially since the disease wasn't dangerous.
No matter how hard she tried, she couldn't love that girl, and she couldn't pretend to love her.
By the evening of that day, while remaining alone, Anna felt so scared for him that she decided to go to the city, but after thinking carefully, she wrote that controversial letter she had received, and without rereading it, she sent it on an ad hoc basis.
Another morning, she received his letter and repented of hers.
She was horrified to expect a repetition of the hard look he had given her when he left, especially when he found out that the girl had not been dangerously ill.
But she was glad she wrote to him.
Now Anna had already admitted to herself that he was having a hard time with her, that he was sad to abandon his freedom to return to her, and even though she was glad that he would come.
He may be burdened, but he will be with her so that she may see him, and know every move he makes.
She sat in the living room, under the lamp, with Tan's new book, and read, listening to the sounds of wind in the yard and waiting for the crew to arrive every minute.
Several times she thought she heard the sounds of the wheels, but she was an oshi-- she was beating; at last she heard not only the sound of the wheels, but also the screaming of the rubber and the deaf sound of the winged approach.
Even Princess Varvar, who had made a palsy, confirmed it, and Anna stood up in flames, but instead of going down as she had walked twice before, she stopped.
All of a sudden, she was ashamed of her deception, but most scared of how he would accept it.
The feeling of insult had passed; she was only afraid of expressing his displeasure.
She remembered that her daughter had been very healthy for the second day.
She was even upset that she recovered just as the letter had been sent.
Then she remembered him being here with all his hands and eyes.
She heard his voice. And, forgetting everything, she ran happily toward him.
'Well, what about Annie? 'He modestly said from the bottom, looking at Anna who ran to him.'
He sat on a chair, and the footman pulled a warm boot from him.
'Nothing, she's better.
'And you? 'He said, crumbling.'
She took him with both hands by the hand and pulled her to her waist, keeping an eye on him.
'Well, I am very glad,' he said, looking back at her, her hair, her dress, which he knew she was wearing for him.
He liked it all, but he loved it so many times!
And the hard-stone expression she was so afraid of stopped at his face.
'Well, I'm very pleased.
Are you healthy? 'He said, with a scarve of wet beard and kissing her hand.
'It's all the same,' she thought, 'as long as he's here, and when he's here, he can't, he doesn't dare not love me.'
It was a happy evening with Princess Barbara, who complained to him that Anna had taken morphine without him.
'What shall we do?'
I couldn't sleep...
Thoughts got in the way.
I never take it with him. Almost never.
He told me about the election, and Anna was able to challenge him to the very thing that made him happy -- his success.
She told him everything he was interested in at home. And all her intel was the fun part.
But late in the evening, when they were alone, Anna, seeing that she had taken possession of them again, wanted to erase the hard impression of looking at the letter. She said:
'And admit it, you were disappointed to receive the letter, and you didn't believe me?'
She just said that, she realized that, as much as he was in love with her now, he didn't forgive her.
'Yes,' he said. 'The letter was so strange.
Ani's sick, you wanted to come.
'It was all true.
'I have no doubt.
'No, you doubt it.
You're not happy, I see.
'No minute.'
I'm just not happy, it's true that it's like you don't want to admit that there are responsibilities...
'The duty to go to the concert...'
'But let us not speak,' he said.
'Why not speak?' 'She said.'
'I just want to say that we can meet the things we need to do.'
Now I'm gonna have to go to Moscow on business at home...
Ah, Anna, why are you so annoying?
Don't you know I can't live without you?
'And if so,' said Anna, suddenly with a changed voice, 'you are burdened with this life...
Yeah, you're gonna come for a day and you're gonna leave like they do...
'Anna, this is cruel.
I've been willing to give up my whole life...
But she didn't listen to him.
'If you go to Moscow, so will I.
I'm not staying here.
Either we have to separate or we have to live together.
'Cause you know it's one of my wishes.
But for that...
'Would you like a divorce?'
I'll text him.
I can see I can't live like this...
But I'm going to Moscow with you.
'Of course you're threatening me.
I don't want anything more than to be separated from you,' he said with a smile.
But not only the cold, angry look of a man who was persecuted and hardened shone in his eyes when he spoke these tender words.
She saw that look and correctly guessed its meaning.
"If that's the case, it's a disaster!" 'Said that look in his eyes.'
It was a momentary impression, but she never forgot it.
Anna wrote a letter to her husband asking him for a divorce, and at the end of November, she moved to Moscow with Princess Barbara, who had to go to Petersburg.
Waiting every day for Alexey Alexandrovich's reply and following the divorce, they now settled together.
PART SEVENTH
The Levins had lived in Moscow for the third month.
It was a long time ago that, according to the best estimates of the people who knew these cases, Kitty was to be born; yet she was still carrying, and it was not obvious that time would be closer now than two months ago.
Both the doctor, and the midwife, and Dolly, and the mother, and in particular Levin, without horror, could not think of the approaching; they began to be impatient and anxious; one Kitty felt completely calm and happy.
She was now clearly aware of the emergence of a new feeling of love for the future, partly for her already real child, and with pleasure she listened to that feeling.
He was no longer a part of her anymore, and sometimes he lived his own life independently of her.
She was often hurt by this-- oh, but at the same time, she wanted to laugh at the strange new joy.
Everyone she loved was with her, and everyone was so kind to her, so caring for her, one thing so pleasant in everything was for her, that if she didn't know and felt that it was going to end soon, she wouldn't want a better and more pleasant life.
One thing that ruined her life was that her husband wasn't the way she loved him and the way he was in the village.
She loved his calm, sweet and welcoming tone in the village.
In the city, he seemed constantly anxious and wary, as if afraid that someone would hurt him and, above all, hers.
There, in the village, he apparently knew his place, was not in a hurry, nor was he ever busy.
Here in town, he was in a hurry to miss something, and he had nothing to do.
And she felt sorry for him.
For others, she knew he didn't seem pathetic; on the contrary, when Kitty looked at him in society, as she sometimes looked at a loved one, trying to see him as a stranger to determine the impression he was making on others, she saw, with fear even for her jealousy, that he was not only pathetic but very attractive to his decency, somewhat old-fashioned, shy courtesy of women, her strong figure, and, as she saw it, special as her expression.
But she saw him not from the outside, but from the inside; she saw that he was not real; otherwise she could not determine his condition.
She sometimes reproached him in her heart for not being able to live in the city: sometimes she realized that it was really difficult for him to set up his life here in such a way as to be pleased with her.
Really, what was he supposed to do?
He didn't like playing cards.
I didn't go to the club.
With funny men like Oblonski, she already knew what it meant... it meant to drink and go after drinking somewhere.
She couldn't think without fear where men went in such cases.
To go into the light?
But she knew that it took a pleasure to get close to young women, and she couldn't want to.
Sitting at home with her, with her mother and sisters?
But no matter how pleasant and amusing she was, the same conversation -- Alina Nadina, as the old prince called it between the sisters -- she knew that he should be bored.
What was he supposed to do?
Keep writing your book?
He tried to do so and went to the library first to do his books and statements; but as he told her, the more he did nothing, the less time he had left.
And besides, he complained to her that he talked too much about his book here and that because of all the thoughts he had about her, he lost interest.
One of the benefits of this city's life was that there's never been a fight between them here in the city.
Whether the conditions of the city were different, or because they were both more cautious and prudent in this regard, in Moscow they did not have an argument because of the jealousy they were so afraid of moving to the city.
In this regard, there has been even one very important event for both of them, namely the meeting of Kitty with Vronski.
The old Princess Mary Borisovna, Kitty's godmother, who was always very fond of her, wanted to see her.
Kitty, who wasn't driving anywhere, went with her father to an honored old woman and met him.
The only thing Kitty could blame herself at that meeting was that for a moment, when she found out in a plainclothes dress that she once knew, she had stopped breathing, blood poured into her heart, and bright paint, she felt it, appeared on her face.
But it only lasted for a few seconds.
Also, the father, who had deliberately spoken loudly to Vronski, did not finish her conversation, as she was already quite ready to look at Vronski, to speak to him, if necessary, just as she spoke to Princess Maria Borisovna, and above all, so that everyone before the last tone and smile would be approved by the husband, whose invisible presence she felt as if she had felt above herself at this moment.
She said a few words to him, even smiled at his joke about the elections he called "our parliament."
(I had to smile to show that she understood the joke.)
But immediately she turned to Princess Mary Borisovna and never looked at him until he stood up and said goodbye, and then she looked at him, but apparently only because it was rude not to look at a man when he bowed.
She was grateful to her father that he hadn't told her anything about her meeting with Wronski; but she saw him in particular tenderness after the visit, during a routine walk, that he was pleased with her.
She was pleased with herself.
She wasn't expecting her to have that power to hold down all the memories of her old feelings for Wronski somewhere in her heart and not only to appear, but to be completely indifferent and calm to him.
Levin blushed much more than she did when she told him that she had met the Princess Mary Borisovna.
It was very difficult for her to tell him, but it was even more difficult for her to continue to talk about the details of the meeting, as he did not ask her, but only frowned upon looking at her.
'I'm sorry you weren't there,' she said. 'Not that you weren't in the room... I wouldn't be so natural in front of you...'
Now I'm blushing much more, much, much more,' she said, blushing to tears. 'But what you couldn't see in the click.'
The true eyes told Levin that she was pleased with herself, and even though she was blushing, he immediately calmed down and asked her what she wanted.
When he learned everything, even to the point that she couldn't stop blushing at the first second, but that then she was as easy and as easy as she was with the first person, Levin had fun and said that he was very happy about it, and now he wouldn't be as stupid as he was in the election, but would try to be as friendly as he could when he first met him.
'It is so painful to think that there is a man almost an enemy who is hard to meet,' said Levin. 'I am very, very pleased.
'So stop by the Bolam, please,' said Kitty to her husband, when he was 11 o'clock, before leaving the house, he went to her. 'I know you're having lunch at the club. Dad signed you up.
What are you doing in the morning?
'I only went to Katavasov,' answered Levin.
'What is so early?'
'He promised to introduce me to Metrov.
I wanted to talk to him about my work, a well-known Peterburg scientist,' said Levin.
'Yeah, that's his article, wasn't it?
And then? 'Oh, Kitty said.'
'Maybe I'll go to court on my sister's case.
'And in the concert?' 'She asked.'
'Oh, I'm going alone!
'No, go; they give these new things...
You were so interested.
I would definitely go.
'Well, at least I'll come home before lunch,' he said, looking at the clock.
'Cause put on a suture to go straight to Countess Bol.
'Is that really necessary?'
'Oh, indeed!
We had it.
What do you think you should do?
Come in, sit down, talk for five minutes about the weather, get up and leave.
'Well, you won't believe it, I'm so used to it, that's what I'm ashamed of.' What do you mean?
A stranger came, sat down, sat down, prevented them from doing anything, upset himself and left.
Kitty laughed.
'Aren't you the one who made the visits single?' 'She said.'
'I've done it, but I've always been honest, and now I'm so used to it that, God for God's sake, it's better not to have lunch for two days instead of this visit.
I'm so ashamed!
I think they're gonna be offended, and they're gonna say, "Why did you come here without a case?"
'No, they won't.
I am responsible for that,' said Kitty, laughing at his face.
She took his hand. 'Well, goodbye...'
Please go.
He already wanted to leave by kissing his wife's hand when she stopped him.
'Kostya, you know I only have fifty rubles left.
'Well, I'll drop by from the bank.
How much? 'He said with a familiar expression of displeasure.'
'No, you wait. 'She held his hand. 'Tell me, it bothers me.
I don't seem to be paying too much, and the money's still floating.
We're doing something wrong.
'Nothing,' he said, reclining and looking down on her.
She knew it was rocking.
It was a sign of his great displeasure, not her, but himself.
He was really unhappy, but not that much money came out, but that he was reminded of something he wanted to forget, knowing there was something wrong with it.
'I told Sokolov to sell wheat and take it forward for the mill.'
There's gonna be money anyway.
'No, but I'm afraid there's a lot of...
'Not at all, not at all,' he repeated. 'Well, goodbye, sweetheart.
'No, right, I sometimes wish my mother had listened.
How nice it would be in the village!
'Cause I've tortured you all, and we're spending money...
'Not at all, not at all.
Never since I've been married, so I can tell you that it would be better than it is.
'Really? 'She said, looking him in the eye.'
He said it without thinking, just to comfort her.
But when he looked at her and saw that these true lovely eyes were questionably pointed at him, he repeated the same thing from the bottom of his heart.
"I totally forget her," he thought. And he remembered what he expected so soon.
'And soon?
How do you feel? 'He whispered, taking her by both hands.'
'I have thought so many times that now I don't think anything and I don't know anything.'
'Aren't you scared?
She laughed in contempt.
'Not a bit,' she said.
'So if there's anything, I'll be at Katavasov's.
'No, nothing will happen, and don't think.
I'm gonna go out with my dad for a boulevard.
We'll stop by Dolly's.
I'll be waiting for you before lunch.
Ah, yes!
Do you know that Dolly's position is becoming irrevocably impossible?
She owes everything, she doesn't have any money.
We talked yesterday to Mom and Arsenia (so she called Lvova's sister's husband) and decided to let you go with him to Steve.
That's not possible.
Dad can't talk about it...
But if you and him...
'Well, what can we do?' 'Said Levin.'
'You'll still be at Arsenia's, talk to him; he'll tell you what we've decided.
'Well, I agree with Arseni.
So I'll stop by his place.
By the way, if I'm gonna go to the concert, I'm gonna go with Natalie.
Well, goodbye.
On the porch, an old, still single, servant of Kuzm, who started the city, stopped Levin.
'The handsome one (it was a horse, the left breath, from the village) was crucified and the whole thing limped,' he said. 'What do you order?'
For the first time in Moscow Levin was occupied by horses brought from the village.
He wanted this part to be as good and cheaper as possible, but it turned out that his horses were more expensive than the groves, and the cart was still taken.
'Cause you're gonna have to send a navigator, a navigator, maybe.
'Well, what about Katherina Alexandrovna?' 'Ask Kuzma.
Levin was no longer surprised, as at the first time of his life in Moscow, that to move from the Ridge to the Sivts of the Enemy, it was necessary to put a couple of strong horses into a heavy carriage, to drive this carriage through a snow mess of a quarter of the Versailles, and to stand there for four hours, paying five rubles for it.
Now it seemed natural to him.
'Tell the driver to bring the couple into our carriage,' he said.
'I'm listening.'
And so easy and easy to solve, thanks to urban conditions, the difficulty that would require so much personal labor and attention in the village, Levin went out to the porch and clicked on the cart and sat down and went to Nikitsky.
Honey, he wasn't thinking about money anymore, but he was thinking about how he'd get to know Peterburg's sociology scientist and talk to him about his book.
Only at the very first time in Moscow did the strange villager, the fruitless but inevitable expenses that had been required of him from all sides, struck Levin.
But now he's used to them.
What happened to him in this respect is what they say happens to drunks: the first drink is a colom, the second sokolo, and after the third, the little birds.
When Levin changed the first piece of paper for the purchase of a lion's footman and a doorman, he hesitated to realize that these were not the right lions, but inevitably needed, judging by the surprise of the Princess and Kitty when they hinted that it was possible to do without a liquor -- that they would cost two summer workers, about 300 working days from the saint to the flood, and every day hard work from the early morning to the late evening -- and that the hawk paper was still colo.
But the next one, swapped to buy food for a family meal worth 28 rubles, even though it caused a memory in Levin that 28 rubles were nine quarters of oats, which, sweating and shrubbing, knitting, hammering, swinging, planting and piling, went easier.
Now the changeable papers have long not given rise to such considerations and have been flying with little birds.
Whether the work invested in the purchase of money corresponds to the pleasure given by the money purchased is a consideration that has long been lost.
The economic calculation that there was a known price below which the known bread could not be sold was also forgotten.
The skin he spent so long was sold 50 cents a quarter cheaper than it was given a month ago.
Even the calculation that such spending would not be possible to live the entire year without debt -- and that calculation was no longer relevant.
Only one thing was needed: to have money in a bank without asking where it came from, so that you could always know what to buy beef for tomorrow.
And so far, he's had the money in the bank.
But now the money at the bank came out, and he didn't know exactly where to get it.
And for a minute, when Kitty reminded him of the money, he was upset, but he didn't have time to think about it.
He was on his way to think about Katavasov and the upcoming encounter with Metrov.
Levin again arrived close to a former university friend, Professor Katavasov, whom he had not seen since his marriage.
Katavasov was attracted to him by the clarity and simplicity of his worldview.
Levin thought that the clarity of Katavasov &apos; s world view came from the poverty of his nature, but Katavasov thought that Levin &apos; s inconsistency of thought resulted from a lack of discipline in his mind; but Katavasov &apos; s clarity was pleasing to Levin, and Levin &apos; s abundance of undisciplined thoughts was pleasant to Katavasova, and they loved to meet and argue.
Levin read some parts of his essay to Katavasov, and he liked them.
Yesterday, when he met Levin at a public lecture, Katavasov told him that the famous Metrov, whom Levin liked so much, was in Moscow and was very interested in what Katavasov had told him about Levin's work, and that he would have Metrov tomorrow at 11 p.m. and was very pleased to meet him.
'Resolutely correct, Father, it is good to see you,' said Katavasov, meeting Levin in a small living room. 'I hear the bell and I think it can't be on time...'
So, what are the Montenegrins like?
By the breed of a warrior.
'Why? 'I asked Levin.'
Katavasov gave him the latest news in short words, and when he entered the office, introduced Levin with a small, dense, very pleasant appearance.
It was Metrov.
The discussion focused briefly on politics and the way in which recent events were viewed in higher areas in Petersburg.
Metrov conveyed the words known to him from the right source, as if they had been spoken on this occasion by the king and one of the ministers.
Katavasov also heard for what the king said was very different.
Levin tried to come up with a situation in which both words could have been spoken, and the conversation on the subject stopped.
'Yes, he has written almost a book on the natural working conditions of the land,' said Katavasov. 'I'm not a specialist, but I liked it, as a natural, that he does not take mankind as something beyond zoological laws, but rather sees it as dependent on the environment and, in that regard, seeks the laws of development.
'This is very interesting,' said Metrov.
'I actually started writing an agricultural book, but not willingly, taking up the main agricultural tool, the workers,' said Levin, blushing, 'has come to the results completely unexpected.
And Levin was careful, as if to feel the soil, to express his view. He knew that Metrov had written an article against the generally accepted political and economic teachings, but to what extent he could hope for sympathy in him for his new views, he did not know and could not guess on the smart and calm face of the scientist.
'But how do you see the special properties of a Russian worker?' 'Metrov said.' 'In the zoological, so to speak, its properties or under the conditions in which it is located?'
Levin saw that this question had already been raised, with whom he disagreed; but he continued to express his idea that the Russian worker had a completely different view of the land from other peoples.
And in order to prove this, he hastened to add that, in his view, this view of the Russian people stems from their awareness of their calling to settle vast, unoccupied spaces in the east.
'It is easy to be misled by making a conclusion about the common calling of the people,' said Metrov, interrupting Levin. -- The condition of the worker will always depend on his attitude towards land and capital.
And by not letting Levin tell his mind, Metrov began to tell him the speciality of his teaching.
Levin did not understand what his teachings were, because he did not bother to understand: he saw that Metrov, like others, despite his article in which he denied the doctrine of economists, looked at the position of a Russian worker only in terms of capital, wages, and rent.
Although he had to admit that in the eastern, largest part of Russia there were still zero rents, that wages were expressed for the nine-tenths of the 80 million Russian population only as food for themselves, and that capital did not yet exist except in the form of the most primal tools -- but he only considered all workers from this point of view, although he did not agree much with economists and had his new wage theory, which he had presented to Levin.
Levin listened reluctantly and initially objected.
He wanted to interrupt Metrov in order to say his point, which, in his view, should have made further statements unnecessary.
But then, having made sure that they looked at the case in such a different way that they would never understand each other, he did not contradict and only listened.
Even though he was no longer interested in what metrov said, he felt a bit of pleasure listening to him.
His self - love was flattered by the fact that such a scientist so willingly, with such attention and trust in Levin's knowledge of the subject, sometimes with a hint of a whole side of the matter, expressed his thoughts to him.
He attributed it to his dignity, not knowing that Metrov, having spoken to all his loved ones, was particularly willing to talk about the subject with every new person, and he was willing to talk to everyone about the subject he was involved in, which was not yet clear to him.
'We will, however, be late,' said Katavasov, looking at the clock as soon as Metrov finished his statement.
'Yes, today there is a meeting in the Society of Lovers to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Swintice,' said Katavasov to Levin's question. 'We were meeting with Peter Ivanovic.
I promised to read about his work in zoology.
Come with us, it's very interesting.
'Yes, indeed it is time,' said Metrov. 'Come with us, and from there, if you will, to me.'
I would very much like to hear your work.
'No, well, it's not over yet.
But I'm very happy to be here in the meeting.
'Well, Father, have you heard?'
He gave a separate opinion,' said Katavasov, who was wearing a frack in the other room.
And then we started talking about the university issue. The university question was a very important event in this winter in Moscow.
Three old professors on the board did not accept the views of the young; the young gave separate opinions.
This view, in the view of some, was a terrible one, in the view of others, was the simplest and fairest opinion, and the professors divided into two parties.
Some who belonged to Katavasov saw a sneaky report and deception on the other side; others saw a boyhood and a lack of respect for authority.
Levin, though not a university, had heard and spoken about the case several times in Moscow and had his opinion; he took part in a conversation that continued on the street until all three had reached the old university building.
The meeting has already begun.
There were six people sitting at the table covered with a bitch behind which Katavasov and Metrov sat, and one of them, leaning close to the manuscript, read something.
Levin sat on one of the empty chairs standing around the table, and whispered to the student sitting here, what was being read.
The student, having pissed off Levin, said:
'The biography. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;This is a biography. &gt;&gt;&lt;i&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;This is a biography.
Although Levin was not interested in the biography of the scientist, he willingly listened and learned something interesting and new about the life of the famous scientist.
When the reader finished, the chairman thanked him and read the poems sent to him by the poet Ment for this anniversary and a few words to thank the poet.
Then Katavasov, with his loud, screaming voice, read his note on the scientific work of the jubilar.
When Katavasov finished, Levin looked at the clock, saw that it was the second hour, and thought he wouldn't be able to read his essay to Metrov before the concert, and now he didn't want to.
During his reading, he also thought about his former conversation.
It was now clear to him that, although Metrov's thoughts may be relevant, his thoughts also matter; these thoughts can be understood and lead to something only when everyone is working separately on the chosen path, and nothing can come out of the message of those thoughts.
And when Levin decided not to invite Metrov, he approached him at the end of the meeting.
Metrov introduced Levin to the chairman with whom he spoke about political news.
At the same time, Metrov told the chairman what he had told Levin, and Levin made the same remarks he had already made this morning, but, for a variety of reasons, he also expressed his new opinion, which immediately came to his mind.
Then we started talking about the university issue again.
Since Levin had heard all of this, he hastened to tell Metrov that he regretted not being able to take advantage of his invitation, bowed and went to Lviv.
Lvov, married to Natalie, Kitty's sister, spent his entire life in capitals and abroad, where he was raised and served as a diplomat.
Last year he left the diplomatic service, not in trouble (he never had any trouble with anyone), and went to the palace office in Moscow to give the best possible upbringing to his two boys.
Despite the harshest contrast in habits and views and the fact that Lvov was older than Levin, they came together in this winter and fell in love with each other.
Lvov was at home, and Levin entered without a report.
Lions, wearing a belt in their home, sat in their curtain shoes on a chair, and in pince-nez, with blue glass, read a book standing on a puppet, carefully on the flight with a beautiful hand up to half of the ingest cigar.
The beautiful, thin, and young face of his, to whom the curly shiny silver hair gave an even more breeded expression, glowed with a smile when he saw Levin.
'Great!
And I wanted to send you.
What's up, Kitty?
Sit down here, calm down...' He stood up and moved the rocker. 'Have you read the last circular in Journal de St.-Petersboard?'
I find it beautiful,' he said with a few French accents.
Levin spoke from Katavasov about what was said in Petersburg, and after talking about politics, he spoke about his acquaintance with Metrov and his trip to the meeting.
Lvova was very interested.
'I envy you that you have access to this interesting scientific world,' he said. When he spoke as usual, he immediately became more comfortable in French. 'It's true I don't have time.
My service and my children's activities deprive me of that; and then I'm not ashamed to say that my education is too little.
'I don't think so,' said Levin with a smile and, as always, empathetic with his low self-esteem, not out of desire to seem, or even to be modest, but completely sincere.
'Oh, my God!
I feel like I'm little educated now.
I even need a lot of freshening and learning to raise my children.
Because it's not enough to have a teacher, you need to have an observer, just like your farm needs workers and a lookout.
Here I am reading,' he showed Buslawev's grammar, lying on the puppet,' demanded of Misha, and it's so hard...
Well, explain it to me.
Here he says...
Levin wanted to explain to him that this could not be understood but should be taught; but Lvov did not agree with him.
'Yes, you are laughing at it!
'On the contrary, you can't imagine how, looking at you, I always learn what I have to learn -- it's the upbringing of children.
'Well, there is nothing to learn,' said Lvov.
'I only know,' said Levin, 'that I have not seen better educated children than yours, nor wish for children better than yours.'
Lvov seemed to want to hold back from expressing his joy, but he did so with a smile.
'If only they were better than me.'
That's all I want.
You don't know all the hard work,' he started with the boys who, like mine, were launched by this life abroad.
'That's all you have to do.'
They're such capable kids.
It's about moral education.
That's what I learn when I look at your kids.
'You say moral education.
I can't imagine how hard this is!
You've just fought one side, the others are growing up, and there's another fight.
If we had no support in religion -- remember, we talked to you -- no father alone could be raised without this help.
The conversation that had always been of interest to Levin was interrupted by the beauty of Natalia Alexandrovna, who was already dressed for departure.
'And I didn't know you were here,' she said, apparently not only without regret, but even glad that she had interrupted this long-known and boring conversation. 'Well, what about Kitty?
I'm having lunch at your place today.
Tell you what, Arsenius,' she said to her husband, 'You will take the carriage...'
And the husband and wife began to judge how they would spend the day. Since the husband had to go to meet someone in the service, and the wife had to go to a concert and a public meeting of the South-East Committee, there was a lot to decide and think about.
Levin, as his own, was to take part in these plans.
It was decided that Levin would go with Natalie to a concert and a public meeting, and from there the carriage would be sent to the office for Arsenia, and he would pick her up and take her to Kitty; or if he didn't finish his business, he would send the carriage, and Levin would go with her.
'He is ruining me,' Lvov said to his wife,'he assures me that our children are beautiful when I know that they are so bad.
'Arsenius goes to extremes, I always say,' said the wife. 'If you look for perfection, you will never be satisfied.
And the truth is told by Dad that when we were raised, there was one extreme -- we were kept in anthress and our parents were in a underwear; now, on the contrary, parents in a closet and children in a underwear.
Parents don't have to live anymore, and everything's for the kids.
'Well, what if it's more pleasant?' 'Lvov said, smiling with his beautiful smile and touching her hand.' 'Who doesn't know you thinks you're not a mother, you're a stepmother.
'No, the extreme is not good at anything,' said Natalie calmly, putting his sliced knife on the table to a certain place.
'Well, come here, the perfect children!' he said to the handsome boys who had bowed to Levin and approached his father, apparently wanting to ask him something.
Levin wanted to talk to them, to hear what they would say to his father, but Natalie spoke to him, and immediately entered the room of a comrade of Lviv, Mahotin, in a court-martial uniform, to meet someone together, and there began an inexhaustible conversation about Herzegovina, about Princess Korzinski, about the dome, and the sudden death of Apraxina.
Levin and forgot about his assignment. He remembered when he went out to the front.
'Ah, Kitty has given me something to talk to you about Oblonsk,' he said, when Lvov stopped on the stairs to see his wife and him.
'Yes, yes, man wants us, les beau-fres, to attack him,' he said, blushing and smiling. 'And then, why me?'
'I will attack him,' said Lvova, smiling, waiting for the end of the conversation in her white dog mouth. 'Well, let's go.
There were two very interesting things in the morning concert.
One was the fantasy of King Lear in Steppe, the other was a quartte dedicated to Bah's memory.
Both things were new and in a new spirit, and Levin wanted to think about them.
By taking his sister - in - law to her chair, he joined the convoy and decided to listen as carefully and in good faith as possible.
He tried not to entertain himself or spoil his impressions by staring at the hands of a white-haired cabalmaster, always so unpleasantly entertaining the attention of music, at the ladies in the hats, working hard for the concert with tapes tied up in their ears, and at all those people, or not busy, or busy with a wide variety of interests, but not with music.
He tried to avoid meeting musicians and talkers, but stood in front of him and listened.
But the more he listened to King Lear's fantasies, the further he felt that he could have a certain opinion.
It began endlessly, as if a musical expression of emotion was gathering, but immediately it fell to the fragments of new musical expressions, and sometimes just on nothing but the whim of the composer, not tied but extremely complex sounds.
But the parts of these musical expressions, sometimes good ones, were unpleasant because they were completely unexpected and unprepared.
Fun, and sadness, and despair, and tenderness, and celebration were without any right, like a feeling of madness.
And, just like a madman, these feelings were unexpected.
Levin felt deaf at all times, looking at the dancers.
He was completely perplexed when the play ended, and he felt very tired of intense and unrewarded attention.
There was a loud clapping on all sides.
Everybody's up, they're in, they're talking.
In order to explain his perplexity to others, Levin went out looking for the experts, and was glad to see one of the well-known experts in a conversation with a man known to him, Sandsov.
'Awesome! 'Said the thick bass of Pessov. 'Hello, Constantin Dmitrich.
Especially in image and sculpture, so to speak, and rich in paint, the place where you feel Cordelia approaching, where a woman, das ewig Weibliche, is fighting rock. Isn't that right?
'I mean, why is Cordelia here? 'Simplely asked Levin, completely forgetting that the fantasy was playing King Lear in the steppe.
'Cordelia is... 'He said the Sandsov, punching the atlas poster he had held in his hand with his fingers, and handing it over to Levin.'
Only Levin remembered the title of fantasy and hastened to read in Russian the poems of Shakespeare, printed on the back of the poster.
'There is no way to keep an eye on it,' said Pestsov, turning to Levin, because his interviewer had gone away and had no one else to talk to him.
In the intermission between Levin and Pessov, there was a dispute about the merits and shortcomings of the Wagnerian direction of music.
Levin argued that Wagner &apos; s and all his followers &apos; mistake was that music wanted to move to the realm of other people &apos; s art, that poetry was also wrong when it described the characteristics of faces, what painting should do, and, as an example of such an error, he cited a sculptor who snatched from the marble the shadow of poetic images rising around a poet &apos; s figure on a pedestal.
"The shadows are so few in the shadow of the sculptor that they even stick to the ladder," said Levin.
He liked that phrase, but he didn't remember saying the same phrase before, and it was Sandsov who said it, and he was embarrassed.
Sands, on the other hand, proved that art was one and that it could achieve the highest of its manifestations only in the compounding of all births.
The second number of the concert, Levin, was no longer able to listen. After stopping near him, he spoke to him almost all the time, condemning the play for its excess, seclusional simplicity and comparing it to the simple preraphaelites in painting.
On his way out, Levin met many other acquaintances with whom he spoke both about politics and about music and about common acquaintances; by the way, he met Count Bol, a visit to which he had completely forgotten.
'Well, go now,' said Lvova, to whom he gave it to him,'maybe you won't be accepted, and then pick me up at the meeting.
You'll find more.
'Maybe they won't accept it?' 'Said Levin, entering the shadows of the house of Countess Bol.'
'Receive, please,' said the doorman, taking off his coat with determination.
'This is a shame,' thought Levin, taking off one glove with a sigh and putting out his hat. 'Well, why am I going? Well, what am I supposed to talk to them about?"
As he passed through the first living room, Levin met Countess Pain at the door with a concerned and strict face that commanded the servant.
When she saw Levin, she smiled and asked him to go to the next little living room from which the voices were heard.
In this living room were two daughters of the Countess and a Moscow colonel familiar to Levin.
Levin came up to them, said hello, and sat under the couch, holding his hat on his knee.
'How's your wife's health?
Were you at the concert?
We couldn't.
Mom was supposed to be at the memorial.
'Yes, I have heard...'
What a sudden death,' said Levin.
The Countess came, sat on the couch and asked about the wife and the concert.
Levin answered and repeated the question about the rapidness of Apraxina's death.
'She has always been in poor health, though.
'Have you been to the opera yesterday?'
'Yes, I was.
'It was very good for Lucca.
'Yes, very good,' he said, and began, because he didn't care what they thought about him, to repeat what he had heard a hundred times about the character of the singer's talent.
Countess Pain pretended to listen.
Then, when he talked enough and shut up, the colonel, who had remained silent, began to speak. The colonel talked about the opera and the lighting, too.
Finally, the colonel laughed, made noise, stood up and left.
Levin too stood up, but he noticed in the Countess' face that it was not yet time for him to leave.
Two more minutes. He sat down.
But since he kept thinking about how stupid it was, he never found the subject of the conversation and kept quiet.
'Are you not going to a public meeting?'
They say it is very interesting,' the Countess began.
'No, I promised my belle-soeur to pick her up,' said Levin.
There's been a silence. My mother and my daughter looked at each other again.
"Well, I think it's time to go," thought Levin and stood up.
The ladies shook his hand and asked him to hand over a million choses to his wife.
The doorman asked him, giving him a coat: 'Where can you stand? &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; and immediately recorded in a big, &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt
"I think I don't care, but I'm ashamed and terribly stupid," thought Levin, consoling himself that all of them were doing it, and went to a public meeting of the committee where he had to find his sister-in-law to go home with her.
In the public meeting of the committee, there were many people and almost all of society.
Levin found yet another review, which, as everyone said, was very interesting.
When the reading of the survey ended, the community came together, and Levin met Sviyazhsky, who called him this evening, surely to the Society of Agriculture, where the famous report would be read, and Stepana Arkadiyić, who had just come from running, and many other acquaintances, and Levin still spoke and heard different opinions about the meeting, about the new play, and about the process.
But perhaps as a result of the fatigue of the attention that he began to feel about the process, he made a mistake, and that mistake was then reminiscent of him several times.
Speaking about the imminent punishment of a foreigner who had been tried in Russia and how it would be wrong to punish him by sending him abroad, Levin repeated what he heard yesterday in a conversation from a friend. 'I think sending him abroad is like punishing a prick by letting her into the water,' said Levin.
Then he remembered that this one, as if it were a thought he had heard from a friend, was from the Wing's bass, and that a friend repeated it from the newspaper's feleton.
When Levin came home with his sister-in-law, and made Kitty happy and happy, he went to the club.
Levin came to the club at the right time.
He was accompanied by guests and dicks.
Levin hasn't been in the club for a long time since he lived in Moscow and traveled to the world when he left the university.
He remembered the club, the external details of his device, but he completely forgot the impression he had before at the club.
But just as he entered a wide, half-circle yard and tears from the cart, he entered the porch and met the doorman in a bandage, unsoundly opened the door and bowed; he just saw in a Swiss claw and a fur coat of members who realized that it was less difficult to take off the claws downstairs than to carry them upstairs; he had just heard a mysterious, pre-call call and saw, entering on a rugged stairwell, a statue on the playground and in the upper doors of a third, old, familiar doorman in a club liquor, in hasty and not slowly opened the door and looked at the guest; Levin had a long-standing impression of the club, a sense of recreation, pleasure and decency.
'Please have a hat,' said the doorman Levin, who had forgotten the club's rule to leave his hats in Swiss. 'We haven't been in a while.
The Prince recorded you yesterday.
Prince Stepan Arkadyich isn't here yet.
The doorman knew not only Levin, but all his connections and kinship, and immediately referred to his loved ones.
After passing through the first walk-in hall with the curtains and to the right of the over-cooked room, where the fruitmaker sits, Levin, after driving over a slow old man, went into a loud dining room of the people.
He walked along the almost occupied tables, looking around the guests.
There, there, there, he came across a variety of things, old and young, and barely familiar and close, people.
None of them were angry and concerned.
Everyone seemed to have left their worries and concerns in Swiss with their caps, and they were determined to enjoy the material benefits of life slowly.
There was Sviyazhsky, and Shcherbatsky, and Nevedovsky, and the old prince, and Vronski, and Sergei Ivanovich.
'Ah! Why are you late? 'Smile,' said the prince, giving him his hand over his shoulder. 'What is Kitty? 'He added by adjusting the napkin that he had stuck behind his vest button.'
'Nothing, healthy; the three of them are having lunch at home.
'Ah, Alina Nadine.
Well, we don't have room.
Go to that table, quickly take a place,' said the prince, and turned his back, and carefully accepted a plate with an ear of nalims.
'This way, Levin! 'Screaming a little further, a good-natured voice.'
It was Turovtsin.
He was sitting with the young military, and there were two inverted chairs next to them.
Levin was happy to approach them.
He has always loved the good-natured doll of Turovtsyn, &quot; a recollection of the explanation came together with Kitty, &quot; but now, after all the hard talk, the good-natured view of Turovtsyn was particularly attractive to him.
'This is for you and Oblonsky.
He'll be right there.
Very directly held by the military with the funny, always laughing eyes was the Peterburger of Gagin.
Turovtsin introduced them.
'Oblonsky will always be late.
'Oh, there he is.
'Have you just arrived?' 'Oblonsky said.' Hurry up and get to them. 'Good.
Did you drink vodka?
Come on.
Levin stood up and went with him to a large table fitted with vodka and a wide variety of snacks.
From two dozen appetizers, it seemed to be possible to choose what tasted like, but Stepan Arkadić demanded something special, and one of the standing liquor lacquers immediately brought what was required.
They had a drink and went back to the table.
Now, behind his ear, Gagina was served champagne, and he told me to pour four glasses.
Levin did not refuse the proposed wine and asked for another bottle.
He was hungry and ate and drank with great pleasure and was more pleased to participate in the fun and simple conversations of his interlocutors.
Gagin, having lowered his voice, told a new peterburg anecdote, and an anecdote, though indecent and stupid, was so ridiculous that Levin laughed so loudly that the neighbors looked at him.
'It's like, "I hate it!" You know? 'Stepan Arkadić asked.' 'Oh, that's adorable!
Bring another bottle,' he said to the footman, and began to tell.
'Peter Ilyich Vinowski has been asked,' interrupted the old footman of Stepan Arkadyić, bringing two fine glasses of champagne, and turning to Stepan Arkadič and Levin.
Stepan Arkadić took a glass and, pe-- looking at the other end of the table with a lousy red mustache man, waved to him, smiling on his head.
'Who is this? 'I asked Levin.'
'You met him once, remember?
Good boy.
Levin did the same thing as Stepan Arkadić, and took a glass.
Stepan Arkadjić's anecdote was also very amusing.
Levin told his joke, which he also liked.
Then we talked about horses, today's runners, and how much the Atlas Wronsky won the first prize.
Levin didn't notice how the lunch was.
'Ah! There they are! 'At the end of the luncheon, Stepap Arkadievich had already said, bending over the back of the chair and reaching out to him with the hand of a high guard colonel.
Vronsky's face was also characterized by a common club's merry kindness.
He leaned on Stepan Arkadiyich's shoulder, whispering to him, and with the same merry smile extended his hand to Levin.
'It is very good to meet you,' he said. 'I was looking for you at the election then, but I was told that you had already left,' he said.
'Yes, I left the same day.
We were just talking about your horse.
Congratulations,' said Levin. 'This is a very fast ride.
'You have horses, too.
'No, my father had; but I remember and know.'
'Where have you been eating? 'Stepan Arkadić asked.'
'We are at the second table, behind the columns.
'He was congratulated,' said the high colonel. 'The second Imperial prize; I'd be as happy in cards as he is on horses.'
'Well, what a golden time to lose.'
I'm going to the infrared,' said the colonel and walked away from the table.
'This is Yaszwyn,' replied Vronsky to Turovtsyn and sat down at a place that had been set free by them.
After he had a drink, he asked for a bottle.
Under the influence of club impressions, or drinking wine, Levin had a conversation with Wronski about the best kind of livestock and was very pleased that he felt no hostility toward this man.
He even told him, by the way, that he had heard from his wife that she had met him at Princess Maria Borisovna's.
'Ah, Princess Mary Borisovna, that is adorable!' said Stepan Arkadych, and told a joke about her, which made everyone laugh.
In particular, he was so good-hearted that Levin felt completely at peace with him.
'Are we done?' 'Stepan Arkadić said, getting up and smiling.' 'Come on!
When Levin came out of the table, feeling that he was walking in a particularly proper and easy way, he went with Gagina through the tall rooms to the pool hall.
Going through the big room, he ran into a father-in-law.
'Well, what? How do you like our temple of idleness? 'The prince said, taking him in his hand.' 'Let's go for a walk.
'I wanted to go and see.
That's interesting.
'Yes, you are. But I'm more interested than you.
You're looking at these old men,' he said, pointing to a puffed-up cock with a wobbly lip, who just moved his legs in soft boots and walked towards them, 'and you think that's how they were born by sluts.
'As sluices?'
'You don't know that name.
It's our club term.
You know how balls roll, so when they ride a lot, they're gonna make a slut.
So is our brother: you drive, you go to the club, and you become a whore.
Yeah, well, you're laughing, and our brother's watching when he gets his own dinghy.
Do you know Prince Chechnya? 'The prince asked, and Levin saw in the face that he was going to say something funny.'
'No, I don't.
'Oh, my God!
Well, Prince Chechnya, famous.
He always plays pool.
He wasn't wearing boats three years ago and he was brave. And he called the others whores.
Only he comes once, and the doorman is our... you know, Vasily?
Well, this one's fat.
He's a big bonmotist.
So the Prince of Chechnya asks him, "Well, Vasily, who's here?
Do you have any boats?"
And he says, "You're the third."
Yeah, brother, that's it!
While talking and saying hello to acquaintances, Levin went through all the rooms with the Prince: the big one, where the tables were standing and playing a small game of familiar partners; the sofa, where they played chess and sat with Sergei Ivanovich, talking to someone; the billiard one, where there was a fun party of champagne at the bend of the room near the couch, in which Gagin was involved; and the infernal one, where a table that had already sat down, had many hosts.
In an effort not to make any noise, they also entered the dark reading room, where a young man with an angry face was sitting under the lamps, grabbing one magazine after another, and a lousy general in depth in reading.
They also entered the room that the prince called smart.
In this room, the three gentlemen spoke warmly about the latest political news.
'The Prince is ready, perhaps,' said one of his partners, finding him here, and the Prince left.
Levin sat, listened; but when he remembered all the conversations this morning, he suddenly became terribly bored.
He got up in a hurry and went looking for Oblonsky and Turovtsin, with whom he had fun.
Turovtsyn was sitting with a cup of drinking on the high couch in the pool room, and Stepan Arkadych and Vronski were talking about something at the door in the far corner of the room.
'It is not that she misses, but this uncertainty, the indecision of the situation,' Levin heard, and wanted to withdraw; but Stepan Arkadić called him.
'Only Levin!' 'Stepan Arkadić said, and Levin noticed that his eyes were not tears, but humidity.' Like he's always had, or when he's had a drink, or when he's upset.
It was both these days. 'O Levin, do not go away,' he said, and pressed his hand firmly by the elbow, obviously not wanting to let him out.
'This is my sincere, almost best friend,' he said. 'You are even closer to me and even more dear to me.' And I want and know that you should be friends and close because you're both good people.
'Well, all we have to do is kiss,' said the good-natured one, and he said, giving up his hand. He quickly took an outstretched hand and shook it tight.
'I am very, very happy,' said Levin, shaking his hand.
'Man, a bottle of champagne,' said Stepan Arkadić.
'And I am very pleased,' he said.
But despite Stepan Arkadyić's desire and their mutual desire, they had nothing to say, and both felt it.
'Do you know he doesn't know Anna?' 'Stepan Arkadych of Wronsky said.' 'And I certainly want to take him to her.
Let's go, Levin!
'Really? 'Vronsky said.' 'She will be very pleased.
I'd like to go home now,' he added,' but I'm worried about Yashwin, and I want to stay here while he's done.
'What's wrong with that?
'All loses, and there's only one I can hold on to.
'Well, the pyramid?'
Levin, will you play?
Well, that's great,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'Stamp the pyramid,' he turned to the marker.
'A long time ago,' answered the marker, which was already tiring into a triangle of balls and for entertainment, rolling red.
'Come on, let's go.
After the party, Vronsky and Levin sat on Gagin's table, and Levin began to hold on to his aces at Stepan Arkadić's suggestion.
He sat by the table, surrounded by close friends, and went to the Infernal to inspect Yashwin.
Levin experienced a pleasant rest from mental fatigue in the morning.
He was glad to see the end of his hostility with Vronski, and the impression of calm, decency, and pleasure did not leave him.
When the party was over, Stepan Arkadić took Levin's hand.
'Well, let's go to Anna's.
Now?
Huh? She's home.
I promised her I'd bring you back a long time ago.
Where were you going tonight?
'Nowhere in particular.
I promised Sviyazhsky to the Society of Agriculture. I think we should go,' said Levin.
'Great; let's go!
See if my carriage has arrived,' said Stepan Arkadić to the footman.
Levin came up to the table, paid the 40 rubles he had lost to the aces, paid some mysteriously famous old footman standing at the ceiling, the club expenses and, especially, waving his hands, went all the halls to the exit.
'Oblon carriage! 'The doorman screamed with an angry bass.'
The carriage came up and both sat down.
Only for the first time, while the carriage was leaving the club's gate, Levin continued to experience the impression of the club's rest, pleasure, and unmistakable decency of the surrounding area; but as soon as the carriage went out into the street and he felt a swing of the crew on the uneven road, hearing the angry cry of the sidecar, saw the red sign of the cab and the shops in the dark, the impression was broken, and he began to reflect on his actions and asked himself if he was doing well that he was going to Anna's.
What's Kitty gonna say?
But Stepan Arkadić wouldn't let him think and, as if guessing his doubts, he would scatter them.
'How glad I am,' he said, 'that you will recognize her.
You know, Dolly's been wanting this for a long time. And Lvov was at her place.
Although she is my sister,' Stepan Arkadić continued,' I can safely say that she is a wonderful woman.
You'll see.
Her situation is very difficult, especially now.
'Why, in particular, now?
'We are negotiating a divorce with her husband.
And he agrees; but there are difficulties with his son, and this case, which should have been over a long time ago, is about to last three months.
As soon as there's a divorce, she'll marry Vronski.
How silly, this old practice of spinning, Isaia Lykui, in which no one believes and which hinders people's happiness!-- put Stepan Arkadych in. 'Well, then their position will certainly be as mine as yours.'
'What's the problem? 'Said Levin.'
'Oh, it's a long and boring story!
It's all so uncertain.
But the thing is -- she, waiting for this divorce here in Moscow, where everyone knows him and her, lives for three months; she doesn't go anywhere, she doesn't see any of the women except Dolly, because, you know, she doesn't want to be visited out of kindness; this silly Princess Varvar -- and she left because she thought it was indecent.
Well, in this situation, another woman could not find resources in herself.
She's, uh, you're gonna see how she put her life together, how calm she is, how worthy she is.
To the left, to the alley, against the church! 'Screaming from Stepan Arkadić, overturning through the window of the carriage.' 'Ooh, it's hot! 'He said, despite twelve degrees of frost, opening even more of his already-opened coat.'
'She has a daughter; isn't she busy with her? 'Said Levin.'
'You seem to think of every woman only as a female, une coveuse,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'I'm busy, I'm sure I'm busy with children.
No, she's a great raiser, I think, but I don't know about her.
She's busy with, first of all, what she's writing.
I can see you're ironically smiling, but for nothing.
She writes a children's book and doesn't tell anyone about it, but she read it to me, and I gave a manuscript to Vorkuev... you know, this publisher... and he himself is a writer, I think.
He knows what's good, and he says it's a wonderful thing.
But you think it's a woman author?
She's first of all a woman with a heart, you'll see.
Now she's got an English girl and a whole family she's busy with.
'Well, is that a philanthropy?'
'Well, now you want to see the bad.'
It's not philanthropy, it's hearty.
They had an English coach, a master of their own, but a drunk.
He's drunk, delirum tremens, and the family's abandoned.
She saw them, helped them, got involved, and now the whole family is on her hands; not like that, low, with money, and she makes the boys Russian for gymnasium, and she takes the girl to her place.
You'll see her.
The carriage moved into the yard, and Stepan Arkadić called loudly at the entrance where the sleigh was standing.
And without asking the door-opener if he was home, Stepan Arkadych entered the hay.
Levin followed him, increasingly questioning whether he was doing good or bad.
When Levin looked in the mirror, he noticed that he was red; but he was convinced that he was not drunk, and went up the carpet up behind Stepan Arkadych.
Upstairs, a man worshiping as a close man, the footman Stepan Arkadych asked who was with Anna Arkadyev, and received the answer that Mr. Warkuev was.
'Where are they?
'In the office.
After passing through a small dining room with dark wooden walls, Stepan Arkadić with Levin on the soft carpet entered a semi-dark office lit alone with a large dark lamp.
Another refractor lamp burned on the wall and lit a large picture of a woman, to which Levin had inadvertently drawn attention.
It was a portrait of Anna made in Italy by Michaelov.
While Stepan Arkadić was walking behind the trajectories and the man's voice was silent, Levin looked at the portrait, in the shiny light of the speaker from the frame, and couldn't get away from it.
He even forgot where he was, and without listening to what was said, he kept an eye on an amazing portrait.
It wasn't a painting, it was a living lovely woman with black curly hair, bare shoulders and hands, and a thoughtful half-smile on soft cannon - covered lips, winning and tenderly staring at him with his embarrassing eyes.
Only because she wasn't alive that she was prettier than she could be alive.
'I am very glad,' he suddenly heard a voice, apparently directed toward him, of the very woman he was admiring in the portrait.
Anna came out to meet him because of rubbing, and Levin saw in the mid-light of the office the same woman portrait in a dark, multicolored blue dress, not in the same position, not with the same expression, but at the very height of beauty at which she was caught by the artist in the portrait.
It was less brilliant in reality, but there was something in the living that was so attractive that it wasn't on the portrait.
She stood up to him without hiding her joy in seeing him.
And in the calm with which she handed him a small and energyful hand and introduced him to Vorkuev, and pointed to the red-haired, pretty girl who immediately sat behind the job, calling her her child, were familiar and pleasant to Levin the techniques of a woman of great light, always calm and natural.
'It is very, very happy,' she repeated, and in her mouth for Levin these simple words somehow received special meaning. 'I have known you and loved you for a long time, and by friendship with Steve and your wife... I have known her very little time, but she has left me the impression of a lovely flower, exactly a flower.'
And she'll be a mother soon enough!
She spoke freely and without haste, sometimes turning her eyes from Levin to her brother, and Levin felt that the impression he had made was good, and he immediately found it easy, simple and pleasant, as if he had known her since childhood.
'I and Ivan Petrovich sat in Alexei's office,' she said, responding to Stepan Arkadyich's question as to whether it was possible to smoke -- just to smoke -- and looking at Levin instead of asking: Is he smoking? She moved a tortoise briefcase and took out the groin.
'How are your health these days?' 'Ask her brother.'
'Nothing.'
Nerves, as always.
'Isn't it wonderfully good? 'Stepan Arkadić said, noting that Levin was looking at the portrait.'
'I've never seen a better portrait.
'It looks extraordinary, doesn't it? 'Said Vorkuyev.'
Levin looked from the portrait to the original.
The special glitter covered Anna's face while she felt his eyes.
Levin blushed and, in order to hide her confusion, wanted to ask if she had seen Daria Alexandrovna a long time ago; but at the same time, Anna said,
'We were just talking to Ivan Petrovich about the latest paintings of Vashchenko.
Have you seen them?
'Yes, I saw,' answered Levin.
'But my fault, I interrupted you, you mean...'
Levin asked if she had seen Dolly a long time ago.
'I had her yesterday, and she was very angry for Grisha at the gymnasium.
The Latin teacher seemed unjust to him.
'Yes, I have seen the paintings. I didn't like them very much,' returned Levin to her conversation.
Levin was no longer talking about the craftsmanship with which he spoke this morning.
Any word in the conversation with her was of particular importance.
And it was nice to talk to her, and it was even nicer to listen to her.
Anna spoke not only naturally, wisely, but wisely, and carelessly, not imputing any price to her thoughts, but giving a high price to her thoughts.
The conversation came about a new direction of art, a new illustration of the Bible by a French artist.
Vorkuyev accused the artist of being realistic and rude.
Levin said that the French were more qualified in art than anyone and that, therefore, they saw special merit in returning to realism.
Because they don't lie anymore, they see poetry.
Never before has any intelligent thing Levin said given him as much pleasure as this.
Anna's face suddenly brightened when she suddenly appreciated the thought.
She laughed.
'I am laughing,' she said, 'how you laugh when you see a very similar portrait.
What you said is completely characteristic of French art now, and painting and even literature: Zola, Doudet.
But maybe it always happens that they build their conceptions out of made-up, conditional figures, and then -- all combinaisons are made up, made-up figures get bored, and they start to come up with more natural, just figures.
'This is absolutely right! - said the Warkuev.
'So you were at the club?' 'She turned to her brother.'
"Yeah, yeah, there's a woman!" 'I thought Levin, forgetting and obstinately looking at her beautiful, moving face, which has now suddenly changed completely.'
Levin did not hear what she said when she bent over to her brother, but he was struck by the change in her expression.
Before so beautiful in her calm, her face suddenly expressed strange curiosity, anger, and pride.
But it only lasted one minute.
She was so sad to think of something.
'Well, yes, no one is interested,' she said, and turned to an Englishwoman: 'Pleasé orderer the tea in the drowning-rome.
The girl went up and out.
'Well, did she pass the exam?' 'Stepan Arkadić asked.'
'Great.
A very capable girl and a sweet temper.
'The end is that you will love her more than you love your own.'
'Here's a man speaking.
There's no more and less love.
I love my daughter with one love, her with another.
'I am telling Anna Arkadievna,' said Vorkuev, 'that if she had put one hundred of that energy on the common business of raising Russian children, which she puts on this English woman, Anna Arkadievna would have done a great, useful job.
'That's what you want, I couldn't.
Count Alexei Kirillych encouraged me very much (saying the words of Count Alexei Kirillych, she took a penetrating look at Levin, and he answered her with a respectful and positive look) -- encouraged me to go to school in the village.
I went a few times.
They're very nice, but I couldn't get attached to this case.
You say -- energy.
Energy is based on love. And there's nowhere to take love, you can't order it.
I love this girl, I don't know why.
And she looked at Levin again.
And the smile and the look of her -- everything told him that she only spoke to him, loved his opinion, yet knew that they understood each other.
'I fully understand that,' answered Levin. 'You can't put your heart on a school or anything like that, and from that I think it's these philanthropy institutions that are always doing so little.
She kept quiet, then she smiled. 'Yes, yes,' she confirmed. 'I never could.
Je n'ai pas le coeur assez large to love an entire shelter with nasty girls.
Cela ne m'a jamais reussi.
There are so many women who make a position sociale.
And now all the more so,' she said with a sad, trusting expression, looking at her brother, but apparently only Levin. 'And now that I need something to do, I can't. 'And suddenly frowned (Levin realized that she had frowned at herself for saying something about herself), she changed the conversation. 'I know about you,' she said to Levin, 'that you are a bad citizen, and I have protected you as well as I could.
'How did you defend me?
&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It depends on the attacks. &gt;&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It depends on the attacks. &gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It depends on the attacks. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It depends on the attacks.
Would you like some tea, though? 'She went up and took into her hand a bound safyan book.
'Give me Anna Arkadievna,' said Warkuev, pointing to the book. 'It is very worth it.
'Oh, no, it's so unbridled.
'I told him,' turned Stepan Arkadić to his sister, pointing to Levin.
'I didn't do it in vain.
My writing is like those baskets of carvings that Lisa Merzalova used to sell to me.
She was a wimp in this society,' she turned to Levin. 'And these poor ones have done wonders of patience.'
And Levin saw a new line in this extraordinary woman whom he loved.
Besides the mind, the grace, the beauty, there was truth in it.
She didn't want to hide the gravity of her situation from him.
When she said that, she sighed, and her face suddenly took a strong expression, as if it were fossilized.
With such an expression on her face, she was even more beautiful than before; but this expression was new; it was beyond the radiant happiness and happiness circle of expressions captured by the artist in the portrait.
Levin looked again at the portrait and her figure, as she took her brother's hand with him into high doors, and felt tenderness and pity for her, which surprised him himself.
She asked Levin and Vorkuev to go into the living room and stayed to talk to her brother about something.
"On the divorce, on Vronski, on what he's doing at the club, on me?" 'I thought Levin.'
And he was so worried about what she was talking to Stepan Arkadyić, that he hardly listened to what he had told him about the merits of Anna Arkadium's children's novel.
After tea, the same pleasant, full conversation continued.
Not only did you not have a minute to find something to talk about, but, on the contrary, you didn't have time to say what you wanted, and you willingly hold back, listening to what someone else said.
And all they said was not just her, but Vorkuyev, Stepan Arkadić -- everything seemed to Levin to have been given special meaning by her attention and remarks.
By following an interesting conversation, Levin constantly admired her -- her beauty, her intelligence, her education, and her simplicity and soul.
He listened, talked, and kept thinking about her, about her inner life, trying to guess her feelings.
And he, who had previously condemned her so severely, now, in some strange way, he justified her and felt sorry for her together and feared that he did not fully understand her.
At the eleventh hour, when Stepan Arkadić went up to leave (Vorkuev had already left), Levin felt that he had just arrived.
Levin got up with regret, too.
'Goodbye,' she said, holding his hand and looking into his eyes with an attractive look. 'I am very pleased, que la glace est rumpe.
She let out his hand and snorkeled.
'Tell your wife that I love her as I did before, and that if she can't forgive me, I wish she would never forgive me.'
To forgive, you have to survive what I've been through, and God save her from it.
'Surely, yes, I will tell...' said Levin, blushing.
"What an amazing, sweet and pathetic woman," he thought, walking out with Stepan Arkadych to the cold air.
I told you,' said Stepan Arkadić to him, seeing that Levin had been completely defeated.
'Yes,' answered Levin thoughtfully, 'an extraordinary woman!'
Not that I'm smart, but the heart is amazing.
It's awful sorry for her!
'Now, God willing, everything will be settled soon.
Well, don't judge ahead,' said Stepan Arkadić, opening the doors of the carriage. 'Goodbye, we are not on the way.
As he kept thinking about Anna, all the simple conversations he had with her, while remembering all the details of her face, becoming more and more in her position and feeling sorry for her, Levin came home.
Kuzma's house told Levin that Katerina Alexandrovna was healthy, that her sisters had recently left them, and he submitted two letters.
Levin immediately, in the front, so that he may not have fun, he read them.
One was from Sokolov, the commander. Sokolov wrote that wheat could not be sold, that only five and a half rubles were given, and that money could not be taken any more.
Another letter was from my sister. She blamed him for the fact that her work had not yet been done.
"Well, we'll sell for five with a half-tone, if they don't give us any more," immediately Levin decided with extraordinary ease the first question that had previously seemed so difficult to him.
"It's amazing how busy this place is all the time," he thought of a second letter.
He felt guilty in front of his sister for still not doing what she asked him to do.
"I didn't go to court again now, but I'm sure there wasn't time now."
And when he decided that he would do that tomorrow, he went to see his wife.
When Levin came to her with a memory, he quickly ran through the entire day.
All the events of the day were conversations: conversations he listened to and participated in.
All the talk was about things he wouldn't have done if he had been alone and in the village, and they were very interesting here.
And all the conversations were good; only two places weren't very good.
One thing he said about the prick, the other -- that there was something wrong with the tender pity he felt for Anna.
Levin found his wife sad and bored.
The three sisters' lunch would have been very fun, but then they waited for him, they waited, they got bored, the sisters separated, and she was alone.
'Well, what did you do?' 'She asked, looking him in the eye, something particularly suspiciously glittering.'
But in order not to stop him from telling the story, she hid her attention and listened with a good smile to his story about how he spent the evening.
'Well, I was very pleased to have met Vronsky.'
It's very easy for me to be with him.
You see, now I will try never to see him, but this awkwardness is over,' he said, and remembering that he, trying never to see him, immediately went to Anna, he blushed. 'Look! We say that the people drink; I don't know who drinks the most, the people or our class; the people are at the feast, but...
But Kitty wasn't interested in talking about people drinking. She saw him blushing and wanted to know why.
'Well, then where have you been?
'Steve awfully begged me to go to Anna Arkadievna.
And when Levin said this, he blushed even more; and his doubts as to whether or not he had done well, or had done wrong, when he went to Anna, were finally resolved.
He knew now that he shouldn't have done that.
Kitty's eyes were especially opened and shiny at Anna's name, but she made an effort to cover up her excitement and deceive him.
'Ah!' she just said.
'You won't be angry that I'm going.
Steve asked, and Dolly wanted to," Levin continued.
'No,' she said, but in her eyes he saw an effort on himself that promised him nothing good.
'She is a very sweet, very, very pathetic, good woman,' he said, talking about Anna, her classes, and what she told me to say.
'Yes, of course she is very pathetic,' said Kitty, when he finished. 'Who did you get the letter from?'
He told her, and after believing her calm tone, he went to undress.
When he returned, he found Kitty in the same chair.
When he approached her, she looked at him and cried.
'What? What? 'He asked, knowing for sure that.'
'You fell in love with this filthy woman, she adored you.
I saw it in your eyes...
Yes, yes!
What could possibly come out of this?
You drank, drank, played, and then went... to who?
No, we're leaving...
I'm leaving tomorrow.
Levin was unable to calm his wife for a long time.
Finally, he calmed her down, only by confessing that the feeling of pity between wine and wine had knocked him down and he had succumbed to Anna's clever influence and that he would avoid it.
One thing he sincerely acknowledged was that, living so long in Moscow, after talking, eating and drinking, he was stunning.
They talked till 3:00 in the morning. It was only at three o'clock that they were so reconciled that they could fall asleep.
After guiding the guests, Anna began to walk back and forth around the room without sitting down.
Although she was unconscious (how she had acted this lately with regard to all the young men), she did all she could to stir up a feeling of love for herself in Levin, and although she knew that she had achieved it, as far as possible with regard to a married honest man and one evening, and although she liked him very much (despite the sharp difference, from the point of view of men, between Wronsky and Levin, she, as a woman, saw in them the very same thing that Kitty had loved both Vronski and Levin), as soon as he left the room, she stopped thinking about him.
One and the same thought was indistinct in all sorts of ways stalking her.
"If I do this to others, to this family, loving man, why is he so cold in me? And not that it's cold, he loves me, I know that. But something new now divides us.
Why isn't he here all night?
He told me to tell Steve he couldn't leave Yashvin and he had to watch his game. Who's Yashwin's child?
But let's just say it's true.
He never tells a lie. But there's another thing about that truth.
He's happy to show me that he has other responsibilities.
I know that, I agree with that.
But why prove it to me?
He wants to prove to me that his love for me shouldn't interfere with his freedom.
But I don't need proof, I need love.
He would have to understand the gravity of my life here in Moscow.
Do I live?
I don't live, but I'm waiting for a breakup that pulls and pulls away.
There's no answer again!
And Steve says he can't go to Alexei Alexandrovich.
I can't write yet.
I can't do anything, I can't start anything, I can't change anything, I'm holding myself back, I'm waiting, imagining fun -- the English family, the writing, the reading, but it's all just a trick, it's all the same morphine.
"He would have felt sorry for me," she said, feeling the tears of self-pity in her eyes.
She heard the frantic phone call and quickly wiped out these tears, and not only wiped her tears, but sat down to the lamp and turned the book, pretending to be calm.
I should have shown him that she wasn't happy that he hadn't come back, as promised, but that he wasn't happy to show him his grief and, above all, his self-pity.
She could have felt sorry for herself, but not for her.
She didn't want to fight, she blamed him for wanting to fight, but she was involuntarily in a position of struggle.
'Well, have you not missed me? 'He said, taking a busy and fun approach to her.' 'What a terrible passion is a game!
'No, I didn't miss you, and I learned not to miss you a long time ago.
Steve was Levin.
'Yes, they wanted to come to you.
Well, how did you like Levin? 'He said, sitting beside her.'
'Very.
They just left.
What did Yashwin do?
'It was a win, 17 grand.
I called him. He was on his way.
But he came back again and now he's lost.
'So what did you stay for?' 'She asked, suddenly looking at him.'
Her face was cold and uncooperative. 'You told Steve you'd stay to take Yashwin away. And you left him.
The same expression of cold readiness was made on his face.
'First of all, I didn't ask him to give you anything, and secondly, I never tell a lie. Most importantly, I wanted to stay and stay,' he said, frowning. 'Anna, why, why? 'He said after a minute of silence, turning over to her, and opened his hand, hoping that she would put hers in her.'
She was pleased with the call to tenderness.
But some strange force of evil prevented her from giving in to her passion, as if the conditions of the struggle prevented her from surrendering.
'Of course you wanted to stay and stay.
You do whatever you want.
But why are you telling me this?
For what? 'She said with increasing heat.' 'Who contests your rights?'
But you want to be right, and be right.
His hand closed, he declined, and his face accepted even more than ever, a persistent expression.
'It is a matter of stubbornness for you,' she said, looking closely at him and suddenly finding the name of that annoying face -- it is stubbornness. For you, the question is whether you're gonna be the winner with me, and for me... 'She felt sorry for herself again, and she almost cried. 'If only you knew what it was for me! When I feel like you're hostile now, it's how hostile you are to me if you knew what that means to me! If you knew how close I am to disaster in these moments, as I fear, I am afraid of myself!-- and she turned away, hiding the tears.
'What are we talking about? 'He said, horrified before the expression of her despair, and bent back to her, and took her hand and kissed her.' 'For what?
Am I looking for entertainment outside the house?
Aren't I avoiding the society of women?
'Of course I am! 'She said.'
'Well, tell me, what am I supposed to do to make you die?'
I am willing to do everything to make you happy,' he said, moved by her despair, 'What I will not do to save you from the grief of something like now, Anna! 'He said.'
'Nothing, nothing.' 'She said.' 'I don't know whether life is lonely, nerves...'
Well, let's not talk.
What's the run? You didn't tell me,' she asked, trying to hide the victory that was still on her side.
He asked for dinner and began to tell her the details of the runners; but in tone, in his eyes, which were becoming more and more cold, she saw that he had not forgiven her victory, that the sense of stubbornness with which she had fought was once again established in him.
He was colder to her than before, as if he repented of his surrender. And when she remembered the words that had given her the victory, "I'm close to terrible misery and I'm afraid of myself", she realized that the weapon was dangerous and that it could not be used another time.
And she felt that, beside the love that bound them, there was a spirit of some sort of struggle between them, which she could not expel either from him or even less from her heart.
There are no conditions that a person can't get used to, especially if he sees that everyone around him lives the same way.
Levin would not have believed three months ago that he could have fallen asleep in the circumstances in which he was today; that by living aimless, aimless life, by living beyond means, after drinking (otherwise, he could not have called what was in the club), by having an uncompromising friendly relationship with a man in whom his wife was once in love, and by making an even more difficult journey to a woman who could not be described as lost, and after having taken an interest in this woman and upset his wife, so that under these conditions he could fall asleep dead.
But under the influence of fatigue, sleepless night and drinking wine, he fell asleep firmly and calmly.
At five o'clock, the squeak of the open door woke him up.
He jumped up and looked back.
Kitty wasn't in bed near him.
But behind the partition there was a move-- a moving light, and he heard her footsteps.
'What? What? 'He said the question.' 'Kiti!
'Nothing,' she said, with a candle in her hand coming out from behind the partition. 'I was not well,' she said, smiling with a particularly sweet and significant smile.
'What? It's started, isn't it? 'Scaredly he said.' 'We have to send him,' he began to dress in haste.
'No, no,' she said, smiling and holding his hand. 'There must be nothing.'
I wasn't feeling well just a little bit.
But now it's gone.
And when she came to the bed, she put out the candle, and lie down and quiet.
Although he was suspicious of her silence as if she were holding her breath and most of all the expression of special tenderness and excitement with which she said "nothing" to him when she came out of the partition, he was so sleepy that he fell asleep right now.
Only then did he remember the silence of her breath and realized everything that was going on in her dear, sweet soul, while she lay beside him, not moving, waiting for the greatest event in a woman's life.
At seven o'clock, he was woken up by a touch of her hand to his shoulder and a quiet whisper.
It was like she was fighting between pity and waking him up and wanting to talk to him.
'Kostya, don't be scared.
Nothing. But I think...
We should send for Lizaveta Petrovna.
The candle was lit again.
She sat on the bed and held the knitting she had done in the last few days.
'Please don't be scared, nothing.
I am not afraid of anything,' when she saw his frightened face, she said, and held his hand to her breasts, and then to her lips.
He jumped up in haste, without feeling or letting her out of his sight, put on his robe, and stopped, looking at her.
I should have gone, but he couldn't stop looking at her. He didn't love her face, didn't know her expression, her look, but he never saw her like that.
How awful and awful he seemed to himself when he remembered yesterday's sorrow for her, before her, how she was now!
Her blazing face, surrounded by soft hair knocked out of her nightcap, glowed with joy and determination.
As little as it was unnatural and conditional in Kitty's general character, Levin was still struck by what was now naked in front of him when all the coverings were removed and the very core of her soul glowed in her eyes.
And in this simplicity and nude, she, the one he loved, was even more visible.
When she smiled, she looked at him; but suddenly her eyebrows shuddered, she lifted her head up, and came to him quickly, and took his hand, and drew all together to him, giving him her hot breath.
She suffered and complained to him about her suffering.
And in his first minute of habit, he thought it was his fault.
But in her eyes there was tenderness, which said that not only did she not blame him, but she loved him for his suffering.
"If not me, who's to blame?" 'He thought unwillingly, finding the culprit of these sufferings to punish him; but there was no perpetrator.'
She suffered, complained, and celebrated these sufferings, and rejoiced and loved them.
He saw something beautiful happening in her soul, but what? 'He could not understand.'
It was beyond his understanding.
'I sent to my mother.
Why don't you go get Lizaveta Petrovna...
Kostya!
It's okay, it's gone.
She walked away from him and called.
'Well, now go, Pasha is coming.
Nothing to me.
Levin was surprised to see that she had taken the knitting she had brought at night, and began to bind again.
While Levin walked out one door, he heard a girl enter the other.
He stopped by the door and heard Kitty give detailed orders to the girl and move the bed with her.
He was dressed, and while the horses were being laid, there weren't any drivers yet. He ran into the bedroom again, not on the chicks, but on the wings he thought.
Two girls were worried about moving something in the bedroom.
Kitty walked and knitted, fast-clothesed, and controlled.
'I'm on my way to see a doctor.
We're gonna go get Lizaveta Petrovna, but I'm gonna stop by. Don't you need something?
Yeah, Dolly's?
She looked at him, obviously not listening to what he said.
'Yes, yes.
Go, go,' she quickly spoke, frowning and waving her hand at him.
He was walking out into the living room when, suddenly, a sorry, quiet groaning out of the bedroom.
He stopped and couldn't understand for a long time.
"Yeah, it's her," he said to himself, and grabbed his head and ran down.
'Lord, have mercy! I'm sorry, help me!-- he said one day, all of a sudden, words came to his mouth.
And he, a man who disbelieved, repeated it not with a single mouth.
Now, at this moment, he knew that everything was not just his doubts, but that inability to believe by reason, which he knew in himself, did not in any way prevent him from turning to God.
It's all out of his soul now, like dust.
To whom, then, did he turn, not to the one in whose hands he felt, to his soul, and to his love?
The horse was not yet ready, but when he felt a particular strain of physical strength and attention to what was to be done in order not to lose a minute, he walked without waiting for the horse and ordered Kuzma to catch up with himself.
On the corner, he met a night trainer in haste.
Lizavet Petrovna sat on a small sanctuary in a velvet salad tied in a handkerchief.
"Thank God, thank God!" 'He spoke with delight, knowing her, now having a particularly serious, even strict expression, a small blonde face.'
Without telling the driver to stop, he ran back next to her.
'That's two hours. No more,' she said. 'You will catch Petra Dmitrich, but do not rush him.
Let's get some opium at the pharmacy.
'So you think it can be safe?'
Oh, my God, have mercy and help! 'Said Levin, when he saw his horse leaving the gate.'
When he jumped in the sleigh next to Kuzma, he told him to go to the doctor.
The doctor wasn't up yet, and the footman said that "they're late and they didn't tell us to wake up, but they're gonna be up soon."
Lacey was cleaning the lamp panes, and he seemed very busy with it.
The attention of the footman to the glasses and the indifference to what Levin had at first surprised him, but at once he realized that no one knew or was obliged to know his feelings and that it was all the more necessary to act calmly, thoughtfully and decisively to break through that wall of indifference and achieve his purpose.
"Don't rush or miss anything," said Levin to himself, feeling more and more physical strength and attention to all that was to be done.
After learning that the doctor had not yet stood up, Levin of the various plans presented to him said: "Kuzma to go with a note to another doctor, and to go to the pharmacy for opium, and if he does not come back, the doctor will, either by bribing the footman or by force, if he does not agree, to wake the doctor up at some point.
At the pharmacy, a thin display with the same indifference as the lacquer was cleaning glass, typing a patch of powder for the waiter, and refusing opium.
By using the names of a doctor and midwife and explaining what opium was needed, Levin began to convince him.
The Provedor asked in German for advice on whether to release, and after obtaining consent from the partition, he pulled out a bottle, a vortex, slowly spilled from a large to a small one, put a label on it, sealed it despite Levin's request not to do so, and wanted to close it again.
Levin was no longer able to withstand it; he took the bubbles out of his hand with determination and ran into large glass doors.
The doctor wasn't up yet, and the footman, now busy with the carpet, refused to wake up.
Levin, not in haste, obtained a ten - chunk piece of paper and, slowly speaking but without wasting time, gave him a paper and explained that Peter Dmitrich (how great and significant Levin now seemed to be such an unimportant Peter Dmitrich!) promised to be at all times that he wouldn't be angry, and that he would wake up now.
Lakei agreed, went upstairs and asked Levin to the waiting room.
Levin could hear outside the door coughing, walking, washing, and something the doctor said.
It was three minutes later; Levin felt that more than an hour had passed.
He couldn't wait any longer.
'Peter Dmitrich, Peter Dmitrich! 'He spoke in a begging voice into the open door.' 'For God's sake, forgive me.
Take me as it is.
It's been over two hours.
'Now, now! 'The voice answered, and Levin was surprised to hear the doctor say it smiling.
'Wait a minute...'
'Now.
It took two more minutes for the doctor to put on his boots and two more minutes for the doctor to put on his dress and scratch his head.
'Peter Dmitrich!' began Levin again with a pitiful voice, but at that time the doctor, dressed and haired, came out.
"There is no conscience in these people," Levin thought. 'Catch while we die!'
'Good morning! 'By giving him his hand and teasing him exactly with his calmness,' said the doctor to him. 'Take your time.
So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh...
In an effort to be as thorough as possible, Levin began to give all the unnecessary details of his wife's situation, repeatedly interrupting his story with requests that the doctor go with him now.
'You're not in a hurry.
You don't know. I don't need to, I guess, but I promised I'd come.
But I'm not.
Would you please sit down for coffee?
Levin looked at him, wondering if he laughed at him.
But the doctor didn't mean to laugh.
'I know-s, I know,' said the doctor smiling, 'I am a family man myself; but we husbands are the most pathetic people in these moments.
I have a patient, so her husband always runs off to the stables.
'But what do you think, Peter Dmitrich?
Do you think it could be safe?
'All data for a successful outcome.
'Are you coming now?' 'Said Levin, looking evilly at the servant who had brought coffee.'
'In an hour.
'No, for God's sake!
'Well, let me get some coffee.'
The doctor took the coffee.
Both of them shut up.
'But the Turks are beating with determination.
Did you read yesterday's telegram? 'The doctor said, chewing over the bun.
'No, I can't! 'Said Levin, jumping up.' 'So you'll be here in a quarter of an hour?'
'In half an hour.
'Surely?'
When Levin returned home, he moved in with the Princess, and they approached the bedroom door together.
The Princess had tears in her eyes, and her hands shivered.
When she saw Levin, she understood him and cried.
'Well, Lizaveta Petrovna's sweetheart,' she said, grabbing her hand to meet Lizavet Petrovna's shining and anxious face.
'It goes well,' she said, 'wish her to lie down. It'll be easier.
From the moment he woke up and realized what was going on, Levin prepared himself not to think, to say nothing, to lock up all thoughts and feelings, not to disappoint his wife, but, on the contrary, by calming and supporting her courage, to carry over what lies ahead of him.
Without even allowing himself to think about what would be, what would be the end of it, based on questions about how much it would normally continue, Levin, in his imagination, prepared himself to endure and hold his heart in the hand of five hours, and it seemed possible to him.
But when he came back from the doctor and saw her suffering again, he said more and more often, "Lord, forgive me, help me," sighing and raising his head to the top; and he felt afraid that he would not endure it, cry, or run away. It was so painful for him.
It's only been an hour.
But after that hour, another hour, two, three, all the five hours that he had set himself for the longest period of patience, and the situation was the same; and he continued to endure, because there was nothing more to do than to endure, every minute thinking that he had reached the last limit of patience and that his heart was about to be torn apart from compassion.
But it took minutes, hours, and hours, and his feelings of suffering and horror grew and became even more intense.
All those normal living conditions, without which nothing could be imagined, no longer existed for Levin.
He lost consciousness of time.
The minutes -- the moments when she called him to herself, and he held her by the sweaty, squeezing with the extraordinary force, then pushing his hand away -- seemed to him for hours, and the clock seemed to him minutes.
He was surprised when Lizaveta Petrovna asked him to light a candle behind the screen, and he found out it was five o'clock in the evening.
If they told him it was only ten o'clock in the morning, he wouldn't be surprised.
Where he was at that time, he didn't know as much as he did when he was.
And he saw her inflammation, then he was perplexing, and he was suffering, and he was smiling, and he was soothing.
He also saw a princess, red, tense, with open bouquet of gray hair and tears, which she swallowed heavily, biting her lips, and saw Dolly, and a doctor who smoked fat papyros, and Lizavet Petrovna, with a firm, determined and soothing face, and an old prince walking around the room with a frowny face.
But when they came in and out, where they were, he didn't know.
The Princess was with the doctor in the bedroom, in the office, where the table was covered; she wasn't, but Dolly.
Then Levin remembered that he had been sent somewhere.
Since he was sent to move the table and the couch.
He did it with diligence, thinking it was necessary for her, and then he just found out that he was the one who was cooking for himself.
Then he was sent to the doctor's office to ask for something.
The doctor answered and then talked about the riots in Douma.
Then they sent him to the Princess's bedroom to bring him an image in a silver, golden Rise, and he and the old Princess's maid climbed onto the cupboard and smashed the light bulb, and the Princess's maid calmed him about his wife and the lampfish, and he brought an image and put it in Kitty's head, carefully shoving it behind the pillows.
But where, when and why it was all, he didn't know.
He also failed to understand why the Princess took his hand and, looking at him with pity, asked to calm down, and Dolly talked him into eating and taking him out of the room, and even the doctor looked seriously and with compassion at him and offered him a drop.
He only knew and felt that what was happening was like what was happening a year ago at a hotel in the city of Paris on the death of his brother Nikolai.
But it was grief -- it was joy.
But the grief and the joy were the same out of all the normal living conditions, were in this ordinary life like holes through which something higher was seen.
And a soul rose up to a height equal to that which it had never understood before, and to which it had no sense.
"My Lord, forgive me and help me," he kept telling himself, despite so long and seemingly complete isolation, feeling that he was turning to God as trustingly and simply as he was during childhood and youth.
He was in two separate moods the whole time.
One -- outside her presence, with a doctor who smoked one fat papyrosk behind each other and put them on the edge of a full ashtray, with Dolly and with the prince, where it was about lunch, about politics, about Maria Petrovna's disease, and where Levin suddenly for a moment completely forgot what was going on, and felt like he was waking up, and another mood -- in her presence, at her head, where her heart wanted to break and everything was broken from compassion, and he kept praying to God.
And every time a scream came out of his bedroom from the moment he was forgotten, he fell under the same weird delusion that he found in his first Miyutu; every time he heard a scream, he jumped up, ran to excuse himself, remembered the dear, that it wasn't his fault, and he wanted to protect him, to help him.
But when he looked at her, he saw again that he couldn't help, and he was terrified and said, "My Lord, forgive me and help me."
And the longer the time went, the stronger the moods became: the calmer, forgetting it completely, he became out of her presence, and the more painful her suffering and feeling of helplessness in front of them became.
He jumped in, wanted to run away, and ran to her.
Sometimes, when she called him again and again, he blamed her.
But when he saw her humble, smiling face and heard the words, "I have tormented you," he blamed God, but when he remembered God, he immediately begged forgiveness and mercy.
He didn't know it was too late, did he?
The candles have all been burned.
Dolly was just in her office and asked the doctor to lie down.
Levin sat listening to the doctor's stories about the charlatan magnetizer, and stared at the ashes of his papyros.
There was a rest period, and he forgot.
He completely forgot what was happening now.
He listened to the doctor's story and understood it.
Suddenly there was a scream that wasn't like anything.
Creek was so scared that Levin didn't even jump up, but without taking a breath, he looked at the doctor in a scared, question-and-question manner. The doctor leaned his head sideways, listening, and smiled with approval.
It was so extraordinary that nothing struck Levin.
"Yeah, that's right," he thought, and he kept sitting.
Whose scream was that?
He jumped up on the chicks, ran into the bedroom, beat Lizaveta Petrovna, a princess, and took his place at the head. Screaming's quiet, but something's changed now.
What -- he didn't see or understand, and he didn't want to see and understand. But he saw it in the face of Lizaveta Petrovna: the face of Lizaveta Petrovna was strict and pale, yet still determined, even though her jaws were slightly irritable, and her eyes were hard on Kitty.
Kitty's excruciated, tormented face, sticking to his sweaty face with a bunch of hair, was turned to him and looked for his eyes.
The raised hands asked for his hands.
With the sweaty hands of his cold hands, she began to hold them against her face.
'Don't go, don't go!
I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid! 'She spoke quickly. 'Mom, take the earrings.
They're bothering me.
Aren't you afraid?
Soon, soon, Lizaveta Petrovna...
She spoke quickly, quickly, and wanted to smile. But suddenly her face was distorted, she pushed him away.
'No, it's awful!
I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die!
Come on, come on!-- she screamed and heard the same scream again.
Levin grabbed his head and ran out of the room.
'It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. 'I told him after Dolly.'
But whatever they said, he knew everyone was dead now.
As he leaned his head to the ceiling, he stood in the next room and heard someone who had never heard them screaming, screaming, and he knew it was screaming what was before Kitty.
He hasn't wanted a baby in a long time. He hated this kid now.
He didn't even want her life now, he only wanted to put an end to these terrible sufferings.
'Doctor! What is it?
What is it?
Oh, my God! 'He said, grabbing the hand of an incoming doctor.'
'It's over,' said the doctor. And the doctor's face was so serious when he said that Levin realized it ended in the sense that he was dying.
Not remembering himself, he ran into the bedroom.
The first thing he saw was the face of Lizaveta Petrovna.
It was even frowned and tougher.
Kitty's faces were gone.
In the place where it used to be, there was something scary about the kind of tension and the sound that came out of it.
He hit his head against the tree of the bed, feeling his heart breaking.
The awful cry didn't stop, it got even worse, and as if it had reached the end of the horror, suddenly it was quiet.
Levin did not believe his hearing, but there was no doubt that the scream was quiet, and there was a quiet clutter, a wobbling and hasty breath, and her interrupted, living and gentle, happy voice quietly said, "It's over."
He raised his head.
She couldn't bear to put her hands on a blanket, she was incredibly beautiful and quiet, she looked at him silently, and she wanted and couldn't smile-- she could not smile.
And suddenly, out of the mysterious and awful world in which he lived these twenty-two hours, Levin immediately felt moved to the old, ordinary world, but now shining with such a new light of happiness that he could not bear it.
All the tight strings fell off. Grieving and tears of joy, which he did not see in any way, rose up in him with such strength, shaking his whole body, which for a long time prevented him from speaking.
When he fell down on his knees in front of the bed, he held his wife's hand before his lips, and kissed her, and that hand with a weak movement of fingers answered his kisses.
In the meantime, in the legs of the bed, in the clever hands of Lizaveta Petrovna, like a light on a lamp, the life of a human being who had never existed before and who, with the same right, with the same significance to himself, would live and bear the likes of himself.
'Live!
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
Oh, boy!
Don't worry! 'Heared Levin the voice of Lizaveta Petrovna, who slapped the child's back with his trembling hand.
'Mom, really? ' said Kitty's voice.
Only the princess replied to her.
And among the silence, as a clear answer to the mother's question, there was a very different voice than all those who spoke with restraint in the room.
It was a brave, bold, unintentional screaming from where the new human being came from.
Before, if Levin had been told that Kitty had died, and that he had died together with her, and that they had children of angels, and that God was here before them, he would not have been surprised; but now that he had returned to the world in reality, he had made great efforts to think that she was alive, healthy, and that his son was so desperately screaming.
Kitty was alive, the suffering is over. And he was incredibly happy.
He understood that and was quite happy about it.
But the baby?
Why, why, who is he?
He couldn't understand, he couldn't get used to the thought.
It seemed to him to be too much, too much to get used to for a long time.
At the tenth hour, the old prince, Sergei Ivanovich, and Stepan Arkadić sat at Levin's house and talked about the mother's subjects.
Levin listened to them and, involuntarily, remembering what had happened before this morning, remembered himself as he had been yesterday.
It's been a hundred years since then.
He felt at some unreachable height, from which he carefully went down to avoid hurting the people he spoke to.
He spoke and kept thinking about his wife, the details of her present state, and the son he was trying to teach himself to exist.
The whole world of women, who received a new meaning for him, unknown to him after he got married, has now risen so high in his notions that he could not embrace him with imagination.
He listened to the conversation about yesterday's dinner at the club and thought, "What's going on with her now, did she fall asleep?
How's she doing?
What does she think?
Is Dmitri's son screaming?"
And in the middle of the conversation, in the middle of the phrase, he jumped up and left the room.
'Come to tell me if it is possible,' said the prince.
'All right, now,' answered Levin, and went to her without stopping.
She didn't sleep, but talked to her mother quietly, making plans for future christenings.
Cleaned, haired, dressed with something blue in her cap, with her hands out on the blanket, she lay on her back and stared at him with her eyes.
Her look, and so bright, brightened even more as he approached her.
On her face was the very change from the earth to the unearth, which is on the face of the dead; but there's goodbye, there's a meeting here.
Again, the excitement, like the one he experienced at the time of the birth, came to his heart.
She took his hand and asked if he was asleep.
He could not answer and turned his back on his weakness.
'And I forgot, Kostya! 'She told him.' 'And I feel so good now.'
She looked at him, but suddenly her expression changed.
'Give it to me,' she said, hearing the baby's voice. 'Give me, Lizaveta Petrovna, and he will see.
'Well, let Dad take a look,' said Lizaveta Petrovna, raising and bringing something red, strange and fuzzy. 'Wait, we'll get out of here before,' and Lizaveta Petrovna put this oscillating and red on the bed, began to deploy and wrap the child; with one finger lifting and turning it and putting something in it.
Levin, looking at this tiny, pathetic creature, made a futile effort to find in his soul any signs of a fatherly feeling for him.
He only felt disgusting about him.
But when he was exposed, and he saw how, like, soft springs, Lizaveta Petrovna pressed these glazed hands into paintings, he found such pity for that creature and so much fear that he would hurt him that he would hold her hand.
Lizaveta Petrovna laughed.
'Don't be afraid, don't be afraid!
When the child was removed and turned into a solid doll, Lizaveta Petrovna pumped it, as if proud of her work, and withdrew so that Levin could see his son in all his beauty.
Kitty, keeping her eye on her, touching her, staring at her. 'Give it, give it!' she said, and even went up:
'Caterina Alexandrovna, you can't do that!
Wait, I'll give it to you.
We're gonna show Daddy how good we are!
And Lizaveta Petrovna raised up to Levin on one hand (the other with the fingers of the swinging back of the head) this strange, rocking and hiding her head behind the edges of the diaper, a red creature.
But there was a nose, too, rubbing eyes and squeezing lips.
'A beautiful child! 'Lizaveta Petrovna said.'
Levin sighed with sorrow.
This beautiful child only insinuated him with a sense of vileness and pity.
It wasn't the feeling he expected.
He turned away while Lizaveta Petrovna set him up with an unusual breast.
All of a sudden, laughing made him lift his head.
Kitty laughed.
The baby's on the chest.
'That's enough, that's enough! 'Lizaveta Petrovna said, but Kitty wouldn't let him go.
He fell asleep on her hands.
'Look now,' said Kitty, turning a child towards him so that he could see him.
The old man's face suddenly groveled even more, and the baby sneezed.
When he smiled and barely held back his tears of comfort, Levin kissed his wife and came out of the dark room.
What he felt for this little creature wasn't what he expected.
There was nothing fun and joy in that feeling; on the contrary, it was a new painful fear.
It was a consciousness of a new area of vulnerability.
And that consciousness was so painful at first, the fear of not being hurt by this helpless creature was so strong that it caused a strange sense of meaningless joy and even the pride that he felt when the child sneezed.
The cases of Stepan Arkadiyić were in a bad position.
The money for two thirds of the forest was already in existence, and, minus ten percent, he took almost everything from the merchant for the last third.
The buyer no longer gave money, especially since, for the first time in the winter of Daria Alexandrovna, when he stated his right to his fortune, he refused to sign a contract to receive money for the last third of the forest.
All salaries were paid for household expenses and for the payment of small non-transferable debts.
There was no money at all.
It was unpleasant, embarrassing, and shouldn't have continued like this, according to Stepan Arkadjić.
The reason, in his view, was that he received too little salary.
The place he occupied was obviously very good five years ago, but now it wasn't.
Petrov, the bank &apos; s director, received 12,000; Swentitski, a member of society, received 17,000; Mitin, who founded the bank, received 50,000.
"Surely I fell asleep, and I was forgotten," thought of myself as Stepan Arkadych. And he started listening, looking, and by the end of winter, he looked at a very good place and led an attack on it, first from Moscow, through aunts, uncles, buddies, and then, when the case was ripe, he went to Petersburg himself in the spring.
It was one of those places that now, all the size, from a thousand to fifty thousand a year of salary, became more than previously warmly bribed places; it was a member of a commission of a connected South Railway and Banking Agency's credit and balance sheet.
This place, like all such places, required so much knowledge and activity that it was difficult to unite in one person.
And since there was no one connecting these qualities, it was better to have an honest man take the place than an dishonest man.
And Stepan Arkadić was not only an honest man, but he was an honest man (with a blow), with the special meaning that the word has in Moscow when they say: an honest person, an honest writer, an honest magazine, an honest institution, an honest direction, and which not only means that man or institution is not dishonest, but they are also capable of letting the government into a stilet.
Stepan Arkadić was spinning in Moscow in the circles where the word was introduced, considered to be an honest man there, and therefore had more rights than others to this place.
It gave a place of between seven and ten thousand a year, and Oblonsky could occupy it without leaving his rightful place.
It depended on two ministries, one lady and two Jews; all of them, though they had already been prepared, had to be seen by Stepan Arkadyich in Petersburg.
In addition, Stepan Arkadič promised Sister Anna to obtain a strong answer from Karenin about the divorce.
And after asking Dolly for fifty rubles, he went to Petersburg.
While sitting in Karen's office and listening to his project on the causes of the bad state of Russian finances, Stepan Arkadych waited only for minutes to come to talk about his case and about Anna.
'Yes, that is very true,' he said, when he took off the pince-nez without which he couldn't read now and looked at the former brother-in-law questionably -- that is very true in detail, but the principle of our time is freedom.
'Yes, but I am presenting another principle that embraces the principle of freedom,' said Alexis Alexandrovich, hitting the word "capture" and putting on pince-nez again to read back to the listener the place where it was said.
And when he recaptured a beautiful manuscript with huge fields, he read again a convincing place.
'I do not want a tread system not for the benefit of individuals, but for the common good -- and for the lower and upper classes alike --' he said, looking over pince-nez at Oblonsky. 'But they can't understand it, they're only interested in personal interests, and they're attracted to phrases.
Stepan Arkadič knew that when Karenin began to talk about what they were doing and thinking, the very ones who did not want to accept his projects and were the cause of all evil in Russia, which was now close to the end; and therefore willingly abandoned the principle of freedom and accepted it.
Alexei Alexandrovich shut up, turning his manuscript thoughtfully.
'Oh, by the way,' said Stepan Arkadić, 'I wanted to ask you, when you see Pomorski, to say a word to him that I would very much like to take the opening seat of a commission member from a connected South-rail credit and balance agency.
Stepan Arkadiyich's name of this place, so close to his heart, was already familiar, and he, without mistake, quickly talked him out.
Alexei Alexandrovich asked what the work of this new commission was and thought about it.
He wondered if there was anything contrary to his projects in the work of this commission.
But since the work of this new institution was very complex and the projects hugged him in a very large area, he couldn't understand it right away, and when he took off pince-nez, he said,
'No doubt I can tell him; but why do you really want to take this place?
'The complaint is good, up to 9,000, and my funds are...'
'Nine thousand,' he repeated and frowned. The high number of these salaries reminded him that, on this side, Stepan Arkadyić &apos; s alleged activities were contrary to the basic meaning of his projects, which had always focused on savings.
'I find, and I wrote a note about it, that in our time these huge salaries are the essence of the signs of the false economic assiette of our administration.
'What do you want? 'Stepan Arkadić said.' 'Well, let's say the bank director gets ten thousand,' because he's worth it.
Or the engineer is... 20 grand.
It's a living thing, whatever you want!
'I believe that a salary is a fee for a commodity, and it must be subject to the law of demand and offer.
If the payment of a salary deviates from this law, as, for example, when I see two engineers leaving the institute, both equally knowledgeable and capable, and one receives 40,000 and the other is satisfied with 2,000; or that the directors of public banks are determined with a huge salary of legal scholars, Gusars with no special details, I conclude that the salary is not prescribed by law by demand and offer, but directly by face.
There is an abuse that is important in itself and harmful in the public service.
I suppose...
Stepan Arkadić rushed to kill his son-in-law.
'Yes, but you agree that a new, undoubtedly useful institution is being opened.
Whatever you want, it's a living thing!
"In particular, it is important that the matter be handled honestly," said Stepan Arkadić, with a blow.
But the Moscow meaning of honesty was not clear to Alexey Alexandrovich.
'The honesty is only a negative characteristic,' he said.
'But you will do me a great favor after all,' said Stepan Arkadić, 'by putting out a word on the sea. Okay, between you and me...
'Cause it depends more on Bolgarin, I think,' said Alexi Alexandrovich.
'The Bulgarians, for their part, agree perfectly,' said Stepan Arkadić, blushing.
Stepan Arkadić blushed when he mentioned Bolgarin because he was with the Jew Bolgarin on the same day, and this visit left a unpleasant memory in him.
Stepan Arkadič knew firmly that the case he wanted to serve was a new, alive and honest one; but this morning, when Bulgarians apparently deliberately forced him to wait two hours with other applicants in the reception room, he suddenly became uncomfortable.
Whether he was embarrassed that he, the descendant of Rürik, Prince of Oblon, was waiting for two hours in the reception room of a Jew, or that for the first time in his life he did not follow the example of an ancestor, serving the government, but performed a new assignment, but he felt very uncomfortable.
In these two hours of waiting for Bolgarin, Stepan Arkadić, walking around the reception room in combat, circling the buckenbards, talking to other applicants, and inventing a kalambur, which he will say about how he waited at the Jew's house, carefully hiding his feelings from others and even from himself.
But he was embarrassed all along, and he didn't know why, because nothing came out of the galley: "It was up to the Jew, and I waited," or something else.
When Bolgarin finally accepted him with extraordinary courtesy, apparently celebrating his humiliation, and almost refused him, Stepan Arkadić hastened to forget it as soon as possible. And now that I remember, I'm blushing.
'Now I have another case, and you know what it is. "Anna," said Stepan Arkadych, with a little silence and a bit of a distasteful impression.
As soon as Oblonsky pronounced Anna's name, Alexei Alexandrovich's face changed completely: Instead of the former recovery, he expressed fatigue and death.
'What exactly do you want from me?' 'As he rotated on the chair and latched his pince-nez,' he said.
'Tis a solution, a solution, alexei Alexandrovich.
I'm talking to you now (not as an insulted husband," I wanted to say, Stepan Arkadych, but in fear of ruining the case, I replaced it with words:) not as a public man (which turned out to be inconvenient), but just as a man and a good man and a Christian.
You must pity her,' he said.
'I mean, what is it, exactly?' 'Silently said Karenin.
'Yes, to pity her.
If you saw her as I did, 'I spent the whole winter with her,' you would feel sorry for her.
Her situation is awful, it's awful.
'I thought, 'Alexei Alexandrovich answered with a thinner, almost squealing voice,' that Anna Arkadievna had everything she wanted.
'Ah, Alexis Alexandrovich, for God's sake, let's not make any recruitments!
What's gone is gone, and you know what she wants and expects -- a divorce.
'But I thought Anna Arkadievna refused to divorce if I demanded that I keep my son.
That's what I said, and I thought it was over.
And I think it's over,' pushed Alexis Alexandrovich.
'But, for God's sake, don't get hot,' said Stepan Arkadić, touching his son-in-law's knee. 'It is not over.
If you let me repitulate, it was like, when you broke up, you were as big as you could be; you gave her everything -- freedom, divorce, even.
She appreciated it.
No, don't think about it.
Exactly.
To the extent that in these first moments she felt guilty about you, she didn't think about it and couldn't think about it.
She gave up everything.
But reality, time has shown that her situation is painful and impossible.
'Anna Arkadievna's life cannot interest me,' interrupted Alexandrovich by raising his eyebrows.
'Let me not believe,' said Stepan Arkadić softly. 'The position of her is painful for her and without any benefit to anyone.
She deserves it, you tell him.
She knows it, and she doesn't ask you; she says she doesn't dare ask for anything.
But I, we're all family, all those who love her, beg you.
What's she suffering for?
Who's better off?
'Let me, you seem to put me in the position of accused,' said Alexi Alexandrovich.
'No, no, no, no, no, you understand me,' said Stepan Arkadych again, touching his hand, as if he was convinced that this touch softened his son-in-law. 'I only say one thing: Her condition is painful, and it can be lightened by you, and you will not lose anything.'
I'll set you up so hard, you won't notice.
Because you promised.
'The promise was made before. And I thought the son was on the case.
In addition, I had hoped that Anna Arkadievna would have the generosity of... &quot;..with a hard time shaking his lips, the radiant Alexandrovich spoke.
'She gives everything to your generosity.'
She asks, begs for one thing -- to get her out of the impossible situation she is in.
She's not asking for her son anymore.
Alexei Alexandrovich, you're a kind man.
Come into her position for a moment.
The question of divorce for her, in her situation, is that of life and death.
If you hadn't promised before, she'd have made up her mind, lived in a village.
But you promised, she wrote to you and moved to Moscow.
And here in Moscow, where every meeting of a knife in her heart, she lives for six months, waiting every day for a decision.
'Cause it's like holding a death row for months with a noose around his neck, promising maybe death, maybe a pardon.
Have mercy on her, and then I'm gonna do this...
Vos scrupules...
'I'm not talking about it, about it...' smacked him, Alexis Alexandrovich. 'But maybe I promised something I had no right to promise.'
'So you deny what you promised?'
'I have never refused to do what is possible, but I wish to have time to reflect on the extent to which the promise is possible.
'No, Alexis Alexandrovich! 'Oblonsky spoke, jumping up,' I do not want to believe it!
She's as unhappy as a woman can be, and you can't refuse such a...
'As much as the promise is possible.
Vous profesez d'etere un libre penseur. But as a man of faith, I cannot act in such an important way against Christian law.
'But in Christian societies and as far as I know, divorce is permitted,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'divorce is also allowed in our church.
And we see...
'Accepted, but not in that sense.
'Alexei Alexandrovich, I don't recognize you,' said Oblonsky, silently. 'Aren't you (and we didn't appreciate it?) Everything forgave and, driven by a Christian sense, was willing to sacrifice everything?
You said it yourself: give me the kaftan when you take the shirt, and now...
'I beg you,' said Alexi Alexandrovich, suddenly getting up on his feet, pale and shaking with his jaw, saying with a loud voice, 'I ask you to stop, to stop... this conversation.'
'Oh, no!
Well, I'm sorry if I upset you,' said Stepan Arkadić with a confused smile, reaching out my hand, 'but I, as an ambassador, was only passing on my mission.
Alexei Alexandrovich gave his hand, thought and said,
'I have to think and look for directions.
The day after tomorrow I will give you a decisive answer,' he said.
Stepan Arkadič wanted to leave when Corney came to report:
'Oh, Sergei Alexeic!
'Who is Sergei Alexeic?' 'Stepán Arkadić began, but immediately remembered.'
'Ah, Serezha!' he said. --Sergei Alexeic, I thought the director of the department.
"Anna asked me to see him," he remembered.
And he remembered that shy, pathetic expression with which Anna, when she letting him go, said, "You'll see him.
Find out where he is, who he is.
And, Steve... if only I could!
Isn't it possible?"
Stepan Arkadić understood what it meant to be "if possible" -- if it was possible to divorce her so that she could give her son...
Now Stepan Arkadić saw that there was nothing to think about, but he was happy to see his nephew.
Aleksey Alexandrovich reminded the brother-in-law that his son was never told about his mother and that he asked him not to mention her.
'He was very sick after that date with his mother, which we did not watch before,' said Alexis Alexandrovich. 'We were afraid even for his life.
But reasonable treatment and bathing in the summer corrected his health, and now, on the doctor's advice, I've taken him to school.
Indeed, the influence of fellow believers has had a good effect on him, and he is perfectly healthy and well - trained.
'That's a good one!
And it wasn't Serezha, it was Sergei Alexeich who smiled, said Stepan Arkadych, looking at the boyo and the beautiful big boy in the blue jacket and the long pantalons.
The boy looked healthy and funny.
He bowed to his uncle like a stranger, but when he knew him, he blushed and, as if angry and angry with something, turned away from him in haste.
The boy approached his father and gave him a note of the points received at the school.
'Well, that's decent,' said my father, 'you can go.
'He has lost weight and grew up and is no longer a child, but he has become a boy; I love it,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'Do you remember me?
The boy quickly looked back at his father.
'I remember, mon oncle,' he answered, looking at his uncle, and drowning again.
My uncle called the boy and took his hand.
'Well, how are you?' 'He said, wanting to talk and not knowing what to say.'
The boy, blushing and not answering, carefully drew his hand out of his uncle's hand.
As soon as Stepan Arkadić released his hand, he walked out of the room as a freebird, looking at his father in question.
It's been a year since Serezha last saw her mother.
Since then, he's never heard of her again.
And that same year, he was given up to school and recognized and fell in love with his comrades.
Those dreams and memories of his mother that made him sick after her date no longer occupied him.
When they came, he tried to drive them away, considering them as ashamed and unique only to girls, not to a boy and a companion.
He knew that there was a fight between his father and his mother that separated them, knew that he was destined to stay with his father, and he tried to get used to that thought.
Seeing an uncle who looked like his mother made him uncomfortable because it caused him the very memories that he thought he was ashamed of.
It was all the more unpleasant to him because, according to some of the words he heard waiting at the door of the office, and especially by the expression of his father's and uncle's face, he knew that they were supposed to be talking about his mother.
And in order not to condemn the father with whom he lived and upon whom he depended, and above all not to give in to the sensitivity that he considered to be so humiliating, Serezha tried not to look at that uncle who came to disturb his calm or to think of what he reminded him of.
But when Stepan Arkadić, who followed him, saw him on the stairs, called him and asked him how he spent time in school between classes, Serezha, out of his father's presence, talked to him.
'We now have a railway,' he replied, answering his question. 'Do you see, two of them are going to the shop?' They're passengers.
And one becomes standing on a shop.
And everybody's jamming up. You can use your hands, you can use your belts, and you can go through all the halls.
The doors are already opening up.
Well, it's hard to be a conductor!
'Is this the one standing? 'Stepan Arkadić asked, smiling.'
'Yes, it takes courage and skill, especially as soon as they stop or fall.'
'Yes, it is not a joke,' said Stepan Arkadych, sad to look into these lively, motherly eyes, no longer childish, no longer completely innocent.
And even though he promised Alexey Alexandrovich he wouldn't talk about Anna, he couldn't bear it.
'Do you remember your mother? 'He asked all of a sudden.'
'No, I don't remember,' said Serezha quickly and, blushing red, humbled himself.
And the uncle couldn't get anything from him anymore.
Slavic guverner found his son on the stairs half an hour later and couldn't figure out for a long time whether he was angry or crying.
'Well, did you get hurt when you fell?' 'The guverner said.' 'I said it was a dangerous game.
And I have to tell the principal.
'If it had, no one would have noticed.' That's probably it.
'Well, what is it?'
'Leave me alone!
I don't remember... what does he care?
Why would I remember?
Leave me alone!-- he turned to the world, not the governer.
Stepan Arkadič, as always, did not spend any time in Petersburg.
In Petersburg, apart from matters: divorce of his sister and place, he, as always, needed to freshen up, as he said, after Moscow's dungeon.
Moscow, despite its cafes chantants and Omnibuses, was still a standing swamp.
That's what Stepan Arkadych always felt.
When he lived in Moscow, especially in close proximity to his family, he felt that he was losing his spirit.
After a long journey in Moscow, he reached the point where he began to worry about his wife's bad disposition and reproach, his health, his children's upbringing, the small interests of his service; even his debts bothered him.
But all you had to do was come and live in Petersburg, in the circle in which he was spinning, where he lived, live, not live like Moscow, and immediately all these thoughts disappeared and melted like wax on the face of fire.
Wife?
Now he's the only one who's spoken to Prince Chechnya.
Prince Chechnya had a wife and a family of grown-up children, and there was another illegal family with children.
Although the first family was good, the Prince of Chechnya felt happier in the second family.
And he took his eldest son to the second family and told Stepan Arkadyich that he found it useful and developing for his son.
What would they say in Moscow?
Kids?
In Petersburg, children did not stop their fathers from living.
Children were raised in institutions, and this is not what is spreading in Moscow -- Lviv -- such as the wild notion that children have the luxury of life and parents have the same work and care.
It was understood here that a person is obliged to live for himself, as an educated person is to live for himself.
Service?
The service here, too, was not the tenacious, hopeless strap that was pulled in Moscow; there was interest in the service.
A meeting, a favor, a good word, a way to represent things in people's faces -- and a man suddenly made a career like the Bryans who was met yesterday by Stepan Arkadić and who was the first snooper now.
This service was interesting.
In particular, Peterburg's view of money matters calmed Stepan Arkadyić.
Bartnyansky, who lives at least fifty thousand in the train he led, said a wonderful word about it yesterday.
Before lunch, when he spoke, Stepan Arkadych said to Bartnyan,
'You seem close to Mordwinsky; you can do me a favor, please tell him for me a word.'
There's a place I'd like to take.
A member of the agency...
'Well, I still don't remember... what kind of hunt do you have for this Jew train business?'
Whatever you want, it's gross!
Stepan Arkadić did not tell him it was a living matter; Bartnyansky would not have understood it.
'The money is needed, there is nothing to live.'
'You live, don't you?'
'I live, but I have debts.'
'What are you?
A lot? 'Bartninski said with condolence.'
'A lot, a thousand twenty.'
Bartnansky was having fun.
'Oh, happy man! 'He said.' 'I have a million and a half and nothing, and as you can see, you can still live!
And Stepan Arkadić did not speak a single word, but in fact saw the justice of it.
Zhivahov had three hundred thousand debts, and not a penny after his soul, and he lived, and indeed!
Count Krivtsov's been singing for a long time, and he was holding two.
Petrovsky lived five million years and lived the same way and even managed the finances and received twenty thousand wages.
But besides that, Petersburg was physically pleased to act on Stepan Arkadyić.
He got him young.
In Moscow, he sometimes looked at gray, fell asleep in the afternoon, drew, stepped, took a hard breath, walked into the stairs, missed young women, didn't dance at the balls.
In Petersburg, he always felt ten years of bone.
He experienced what he was told yesterday in Petersburg by the 60-year-old Prince of Oslo, Peter, who had just returned from abroad.
'We can't live here,' said Peter Oblonsky. 'You'll believe me, I spent the summer in Baden; well, right, I felt like a very young man.
I'm gonna see a young woman, and I'm gonna think...
Dinner, drink a little -- strength, awake.
He came to Russia, &lt;br /&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;You wouldn &apos; t believe it, &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Well, two weeks later he wore a robe, stopped dressing for lunch.
What a young man to think!
He's an old man.
Only the soul remains to be saved.
I went to Paris -- I did it again.
Stepan Arkadić felt exactly the same difference as Peter Oblonsky.
He was so down in Moscow that if he lived there for a long time, he would have come to what was good and to save his soul; but in Petersburg he felt like a decent man again.
There was a long-standing, strange relationship between Princess Betsy Tverska and Stepan Arkadyić.
Stepan Arkadić always jokingly looked after her and told her, also kidding, the most indecent things, knowing that she liked it the most.
The other day, after his conversation with Karenin Stepan Arkadić, when he came to see her, he felt so young that in this hilarious courtship and lies he had suddenly gone so far that he no longer knew how to get back, for unfortunately she had not only not liked her but hated him.
The tone was set because she liked him very much.
So he was very happy to be here by the Princess Soft, who ended their solitude with the two of them.
'Ah, and you are here,' she said, seeing him. 'Well, what is your poor sister?
You don't look at me like that,' she added. 'Now that everyone has attacked her, all those who are worse than her a hundred thousand times, I find what she has done perfectly.'
I can't forgive Vronsky for not letting me know when she was in Petersburg.
I'd go to her and with her everywhere.
Please tell her my love for me.
Well, tell me about her.
'Yes, her situation is hard,' she began to tell Stepan Arkadych, in the simpleness of heart, accepting the words of Princess Soft for a real coin, 'tell me about your sister.'
The Princess Soft immediately, according to her habit, interrupted him and began to tell him herself.
'She did what everyone else did but me, but kept secret; but she didn't want to cheat and did fine.'
And I did even better because I left that half-wit your son-in-law.
Excuse me.
Everyone said he was smart, smart, alone I said he was stupid.
Now that he's reached out to Lydia Ivanovna and Landau, everyone says he's delusional, and I'd love to disagree with everyone, but this time I can't.
'Would you please explain to me,' said Stepan Arkadić, 'what does that mean?
I was with him yesterday on his sister's case and I asked for a strong answer.
He didn't answer me, and he said he'd think, and this morning I got an invitation instead of an invitation to this evening to Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'Well, well! 'The Princess of Soft spoke with joy.' 'They will ask Landau what he will say.
'How's Landau?
Why?
What is Landau?
'How, do you not know Jules Landau, le faméux jules Landau, le clair-voyant?
He's half-wit, too, but your sister's fate depends on him.
That's what happens from life in the province, you don't know anything.
Landau, you see, the comis was at a store in Paris and came to see a doctor.
At the doctor's office, he fell asleep and gave advice to all the sick in his sleep. And amazing advice.
Then Yuri Meledinsky -- you know, sick? 'The wife found out about Landau and took him to her husband.
He's treating her husband.
And it didn't do him any good, I think, because he's just as relaxed, but they believe in him and take him with them.
And they brought him to Russia.
This is where everyone attacked him, and he started treating everyone.
The Countess of Toothless was cured, and she loved him so much that she adopted him.
'How did you adopt?
'Okay, adopted.
He's not Landau anymore, but Count Toothless.
But it's not that, but Lydia -- I love her very much, but she's not in the right place -- she's, of course, now on this Landau, and without it, she and Alexey Alexandrovich have nothing to do with it, and so your sister's fate is now in the hands of this Landau, otherwise Count Bezubowa.
After a beautiful meal and a large amount of cognac drinking at Bartnyansky's, Stepan Arkadić, only a little late against the appointed time, entered the Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'Who else is with the Countess?'
French? 'Ask Stepan Arkadych of the doorman, looking around Alexey Alexandrovich's familiar coat and a strange, naive coat with clamps.'
'Alexei Alexandrovich Karenin and Count Bezubov,' answered the doorman strictly.
"The Princess of Soft guessed," thought Stepan Arkadych, entering the stairs. 'That's weird!
However, it would be good to get close to her.
She has a huge influence.
If she says a word on the sea, that's right."
It was still quite bright in the yard, but in the small living room of Countess Lydia Ivanovna with the curtains down, the lamps were already on fire.
At the round table, the Countess and Alexis Alexandrovich were sitting under the lamp, talking quietly about something.
A short, thin man with a woman &apos; s pelvis, cranked in his knees, very pale, handsome, with shiny beautiful eyes and long hair lying on his jacket &apos; s collar, stood at the other end, looking around the wall with portraits.
After he said hello to his mistress and to Alexei Alexandrovich, Stepan Arkadić took an involuntary look at another stranger.
'Monsieur Landau! 'The Countess approached him with gentleness and caution.
And she introduced them.
Landau quickly looked back, came up and, smiling, put a fixed sweaty hand in Stepan Arkadyich's extended hand and immediately went back and looked at the portraits.
The Countess and Alexis Alexandrovich had a great deal of eye contact.
'I am very pleased to see you, especially today,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna, showing Stepan Arkadyich a place near Karenin.
'I introduced you to him as Landau,' she said in a quiet voice, looking at the Frenchman and then immediately at Alexei Alexandrovich, 'but he is indeed Count Toothless, as you probably know.
Only he doesn't like that title.
'Yes, I heard,' answered Stepan Arkadić, 'they say he healed the Countess Toothless completely.
'She was with me today, she is so pathetic! 'The Countess approached Alexei Alexandrovich. 'The separation is terrible for her.
It's such a blow to her!
'Is he going well?' 'Alexei Alexandrovich asked.'
'Yes, he is going to Paris.
He heard a voice yesterday,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna, looking at Stepan Arkadyić.
'Ah, voice!' repeated Oblonsky, feeling the need to be as careful as possible in this society, where something special is happening or should be happening, to which he does not yet have the key.
There was a minute of silence, after which the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, as if to enter into the main subject of the conversation, said with a subtle smile to Oblonsky,
'I've known you for a long time and I'm very pleased to know you.
Les amis de nos amis son nos amis.
But in order to be a friend, you have to think into your friend's soul, and I'm afraid you don't do that to Alexei Alexandrovich.
You know what I'm talking about,' she said, raising her beautiful thoughtful eyes.
'In part, Countess, I understand that the position of Alexei Alexandrovich...' said Oblonsky, not understanding well what the matter is, and therefore wanting to remain in general.
'The change is not on the outside,' said the Countess Lydia Ivanovna strictly, while keeping an eye on those who were in love with Landau, Alexey Alexandrovich, 'his heart changed, he was given a new heart, and I'm afraid you didn't quite think about the change that took place in him.
'I mean, in general terms, I can imagine this change.
We were always friendly, and now...' answered with a gentle eye to the Countess's eyes, said Stepan Arkadić, imagining which of the two ministers she was closer to knowing which of the two would have to ask her.
'The change that took place in him cannot weaken his feelings of love for his fellowman; on the contrary, the change that took place in him must increase love.
But I'm afraid you don't understand me.
Would you like some tea? 'She said, pointing her eyes at the footman who had given the tea on the tray.'
'Not exactly, Countess.
Of course, his misfortune...
'Yes, the misfortune that became supreme happiness when the heart became new was fulfilled by it,' she said, looking in love at Stepan Arkadyich.
"I think it's okay to ask for both of them," thought Stepan Arkadić.
'Oh, of course, Countess,' he said, 'but I think these changes are so intimate that no one, even the most subtle person, likes to speak.
'On the contrary!
We have to talk and help each other.
'Yes, no doubt, but there is such a difference of opinion, and at the same time...' said Oblonsky with a soft smile.
'There can be no difference in the work of holy truth.
'Oh, yes, of course, but...' and, confusedly, Stepan Arkadych silenced himself.
He realized it was about religion.
'I think he is about to fall asleep,' said Alexi Alexandrovich with a great whisper, approaching Lydia Ivanovna.
Stepan Arkadić looked back.
Landau sat by the window, reclining on the handle and back of the chair, lowering his head.
Noticed his eyes, he raised his head and smiled at him with a childish, naive smile.
'Ignore it,' said Lydia Ivanovna, and moved the chair lightly to Alexei Alexandrovich. 'I noticed...' she began something, as a footman came into the room with a letter.
Lydia Ivanovna quickly ran through the note and, apologizing with extreme speed, wrote and answered and returned to the table. 'I noticed,' she continued with the conversation, 'that Moscowites, especially men, were the most indifferent to religion.
'Oh no, Countess, I think Moscowites have a reputation for being the strongest,' answered Stepan Arkadić.
'Yes, it is my understanding that you are, unfortunately, out of indifference,' said Alexis Alexandrovich with a tired smile, addressing him.
'How can you be indifferent! 'Said Lydia Ivanovna.'
'I am not indifferent to this relationship, but I am waiting,' said Stepan Arkadić, with his self-mitigating smile. 'I do not think it is time for me to ask these questions.
Alexei Alexandrovich and Lydia Ivanovna looked at each other.
'We can never know whether the time has come or not for us,' said Alexis Alexandrovich strictly. 'We must not think about whether we are ready or not: grace is not guided by human considerations; it sometimes does not go to the workers and go to the unprepared, as it is to Saul.
'No, it seems not yet,' said Lydia Ivanovna, who was following the French movement at that time.
Landau stood up and approached them.
'Will you let me listen?' 'He asked.'
'Oh, yes, I didn't want to disturb you,' said Lydia Ivanovna, looking at him gently. 'Sit with us.'
'All you have to do is close your eyes so that you don't lose your light,' he continued.
'Oh, if only you knew the happiness we experience in feeling his eternal presence in your soul! 'The Countess Lydia Ivanovna said, smiling blissfully.
'But a man may feel unable at times to rise to this height,' said Stepan Arkadych, feeling that he was screaming with his soul, recognizing the religious height, but not willing to confess his freedom of thought before a special word across the sea can give him the desired space.
'So you're saying that sin prevents him?' 'Said Lydia Ivanovna.' 'But that is a false opinion.
There is no sin for the believers, and sin has already been redeemed.
"Pardon," she added, looking back at another footman's note.
She read and said:-- Tomorrow at the great princess's, tell me. 'It is no sin for a believer,' she continued the conversation.
'Yes, but faith without works is dead,' said Stepan Arkadić, remembering that phrase from catechism, with a smile already defending his independence.
'Here it is, from the apostle Jacob's message,' said Aleksey Alexandrovich, with some reproach toward Lydia Ivanovna, apparently as a matter of which they have spoken many times. 'How much damage has been done by the false interpretation of this place!
Nothing moves away from faith like that interpretation.
"I have no business, I can't believe," but it's not said anywhere.
It says the opposite.
'Working for God, laboring, fasting to save the soul,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna with vile contempt, 'these are the wild notions of our monks...
Then it's not said anywhere.
It's much easier and easier, 'privila-- she looked at Oblonsky with the most encouraging smile she had in her court encouraged young, confused, new ladylines.
'We are saved by Christ, who has suffered for us.
'We are saved by faith' was confirmed by the look of her words.
--Vous comprenez l'anglais? 'I asked Lydia Ivanovna, and when I received the answer in the affirmative, I stood up and began to scrub on the back of the book. 'I want to read "Safe and Happy" or "Under the Wing"? 'She said, looking at Karenin in question.
And when she found the book, and sat again, she opened it. 'This is very short.
This describes the way in which faith is acquired and the happiness above all the earth that fills the soul.
A man who believes cannot be unhappy because he is not alone.
You'll see. 'She was about to read as the footman entered again. 'Borozdin?'
Tell me, tomorrow at 2:00. 'Yes,' she said, placing her finger in the book and sighing at her with thoughtful, beautiful eyes. 'This is how true faith works.
Do you know Sanina Marie?
Do you know her misfortune?
She lost her only child.
She was desperate.
Well, what's it gonna be?
She found this friend, and she thanks God now for the death of her child.
This is the happiness of faith!
'Oh, yes, it is very...' said Stepan Arkadych, happy to read and let him remember a little.
"No, I guess it's better not to ask for anything today," he thought. "I wish I hadn't messed up to get out of here."
'You will be bored,' said Countess Lydia Ivanovna to Landau, 'you do not speak English, but it is short.
'Oh, I understand,' said Landau with the same smile and closed his eyes.
Aleksey Alexandrovich and Lydia Ivanovna looked at each other, and the reading began.
Stepan Arkadić felt completely perplexed by the strange speeches he heard.
The complexity of Peterburg &apos; s life in general was excruciating to him, bringing him out of Moscow &apos; s stalemate; but he loved and understood these complications in areas, his loved ones and his acquaintances; in the same strange environment, he was perplexed, stunned, and couldn &apos; t hold anything.
Listening to Countess Lydia Ivanovna and feeling admirable, naive or pluto -- he himself did not know -- the eyes of Landau, Stepan Arkadić began to experience some particular weight in his head.
The most varied thoughts were confused in his head.
"Mary Sanina is happy that she has a child who has died...
I'd like to smoke now...
To save-- you just have to believe, and the monks don't know how to do it, but the Countess Lydia Ivanovna knows...
And why do I have such a burden in my head?
From cognac or because it's really weird?
I still don't seem to have done anything indecent.
But you can't ask her to.
They say they make you pray.
Whatever it is I'm forced to do.
It's gonna be too stupid.
And what nonsense she reads and speaks well.
Landau -- Toothless.
Why is it the Toothless?"
Suddenly, Stepan Arkadić felt that his lower jaw was inexhaustible.
He fixed the buckenbards by hiding the potion and shook up.
But after that, he felt that he was asleep and that he was going to snore.
He woke up the minute the Countess Lydia Ivanovna's voice said, "He's asleep."
Stepan Arkadić woke up terrifiedly, feeling guilty and guilty.
But immediately he was relieved to see that the words "he sleeps" did not refer to him, but to Landau.
The French fell asleep just like Stepan Arkadych.
But Stepan Arkadjić's dream, he thought, would hurt them, he didn't think it was, everything seemed so strange to him, and Landau's dream made them very happy, especially Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
'Mon ami,' said Lydia Ivanovna, be careful not to make any noise by putting on the folds of her silk dress and, in the beginning, calling Karenina not Alexei Alexandrovich, but `mon ami' -- donnesz loi la Main.
Vous voyez?
Shh! 'She stitched up the footman who came in again.' 'Do not accept.
The Frenchman slept or pretended to sleep by sticking his head to the back of the chair, and with a sweaty hand lying on his knee, he made weak moves like he was catching something.
Alexei Alexandrovich got up, wanted to be careful, but by sticking at the table, he came up and put his hand in the hand of the Frenchman.
Stepan Arkadych stood up and opened his eyes, wanting to wake himself up, if he was asleep, looking at him, and at the other. It was all real.
Stepan Arkadić felt that his mind was getting worse and worse.
== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
Qu'elle sort! 'Said the French without opening his eyes.'
--Vous m'excuserez, mais vous voyez...
Revenez vers dix heures, encore mieux demain.
'Qu'elle sort!' repeated the French with impatience.
'C'est moi, n'est se pas?
And after receiving the answer in the affirmative, Stepan Arkadić, forgetting that he wanted to ask Lydia Ivanovna, forgetting his sister's case, with one desire to get out of here quickly, went out on chicks and, like from an infected house, ran out of the street and spent a long time talking and joking with the driver, wanting to make a quick sense of himself.
At the French theater he caught the last act, and then at the Tartar behind the champagne, Stepan Arkadić breathed a little in his own air. But that night, he was very uncomfortable.
When he returned home to Peter Oblonsky, who was staying with him in Petersburg, Stepan Arkadych found a note from Betsy.
She wrote to him that she very much wanted to finish the conversation and asked him to come tomorrow.
As soon as he could read the note and wrinkle over it, the heavy steps of people carrying something heavy were heard downstairs.
Stepan Arkadić went out to see.
It was the younger Peter Oblonsky.
He was so drunk that he could not enter the stairs; but he told himself to stand on his feet when he saw Stepan Arkadyich, and, clinging to him, went with him to his room, and there he told him about how he had spent the evening, and immediately fell asleep.
Stepan Arkadić was in a state of decline, which rarely happened to him, and he couldn't sleep for long.
Everything he remembered was nasty, but most of all, something embarrassing, he remembered the evening at the Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
On the other day, he received a positive rejection from Alexey Alexandrovich of Anna's divorce and realized that the decision was based on what the French had said yesterday in their real or fake dream.
In order to do something in family life, either a perfect division between the spouses or a lover's consent is necessary.
When the relationship between the spouses is uncertain and neither of them is present, no work can be done.
Many families remain in old places, shamed by both spouses, year after year, only because there is no complete dissension or agreement.
And the Moscow life in the heat and dust, when the sun was no longer in spring, but in summer, and all the trees on the boulevards had long been in the leaves, and the leaves had already been covered with dust, was insufferable; but they, without moving to Vozvolensky, as had long been decided, continued to live in the cooled Moscow, because lately there had been no agreement between them.
The irritation that divided them had no external reason, and all attempts to explain not only did not eliminate but increased it.
It was an irritation within her, which gave her a reason to diminish his love, for him -- a regret that he put himself in a difficult position for her, which, instead of being relieved, makes it even more difficult.
Neither one of them gave reasons for their irritation, but they considered each other wrong and tried to prove it to each other on every pretext.
For her, all of him, with all of his habits, thoughts, desires, all of his mental and physical storage, was one thing -- love for women, and that love, which she felt should be all focused on her alone, that love was diminished; therefore, in her mind, he had to put part of his love on others or on another woman -- and she was jealous.
She was jealous of him not to any woman, but to diminish his love.
Without yet an object of jealousy, she was looking for him.
By the slightest hint, she was moving her jealousy from one subject to another.
She was jealous of the rude women with whom, thanks to his single relationship, he was so easily able to enter into contact; she was jealous of the secular women he could meet; she was jealous of the imaginary girl he wanted to break up with her and marry her.
And that last jealousy was most painful to her, especially because he himself had not been careful in a frank moment to tell her that his mother understood him so little that he allowed himself to persuade him to marry Princess Forty.
And when Anna was jealous of him, she resented him, and looked for every cause of indignation.
Whatever was difficult in her situation, she blamed him.
The excruciating state of expectation that she had lived between heaven and earth in Moscow, the slowness and indecisiveness of Alexei Alexandrovich, and her solitude -- she attributed everything to him.
Had he loved him, he would have understood the gravity of her situation and driven her out of him.
It was his fault that she lived in Moscow, not in the village.
He couldn't live in the village as she wanted.
He needed society, and he put it in this terrible position, the gravity of which he did not want to understand.
And again, it was his fault that she was forever separated from her son.
Even the few moments of tenderness that came between them did not calm her: now she saw in his tenderness a shade of tranquillity, of certainty which had not been before, and which had annoyed her.
It's been twilight.
Anna alone, waiting for him to return from the blank dinner he went to, walked back and forth in his office (a room where the noise of the bridge was less heard) and in all the details re-thinked the words of yesterday's quarrel.
Going back from the commemorative abusive words of the dispute to what was their cause, she finally got to the beginning of the conversation.
For a long time, she could not believe that discord would begin with such a harmless, untruthful conversation.
It really was.
It all started with him laughing at women's gymnasiums, considering them unnecessary, and she stood up for them.
He disrespected women's education in general and said that Gunna, a patronised English woman, did not need the knowledge of physics at all.
It pissed Anna off.
She saw a contemptible hint in her class. And she came up with a phrase that would pay him back for her pain.
'I do not expect you to remember me, my feelings, as a loving person may remember them, but I expected just sensitivity,' she said.
And indeed, he blushed with anger and said something unpleasant.
She didn't remember what she said to him, but only here he, apparently with a desire to hurt her, said,
'I'm not interested in your addiction to this girl, that's true, because I can see it isn't natural.
This cruelty of him, with which he destroyed the world so hard built to carry on his hard life, this injustice of his with which he accused her of pretending to be indecent, blew her up.
'I am very sorry that one rude and material thing is understandable and natural to you,' she said, and left the room.
When he came to her last night, they didn't remember an ex-fight, but they both felt that the fight was broken, not gone.
He wasn't home all day today, and she was so lonely and hard to feel at odds with him that she wanted to forget everything, to forgive and to make peace with him, to blame herself and to justify him.
"It's my fault. I'm annoying, I'm pointlessly jealous.
I'll make peace with him, and we'll go to the village, and I'll be calmer there," she said to herself.
'Unnaturally,' she remembered, suddenly, the word that insulted her was not so much a word as an intention to hurt her.
"I know what he was gonna say; he was gonna say, "unnaturally, not loving his daughter, loving someone else's child.
What does he know about love for children, about my love for Serezha, which I sacrificed for him?
But this desire to hurt me!
No, he loves another woman, it can't be different."
And when she saw that, in order to calm herself, she had done the circle she had already gone through so many times and returned to her previous irritation, she was horrified at herself.
"Can't you?
Can't I take over? 'She said to herself, and started again.' 'He's true, he's honest, he loves me.
I love him, there'll be a divorce the other day.
What else do you need?
I need calm, trust, and I'll take over.
Yeah, now that he's here, I'm gonna say it was my fault, even though it wasn't my fault, and we're gonna leave."
And in order to stop thinking and not be irritated, she called and told me to put the chests in the village.
At ten o'clock, he arrived.
'Well, was it fun?' 'She asked, with a guilty and mild expression on her face, to meet him.'
'As usual,' he answered, immediately with one look at her, realizing that she was in one of her good positions.
He was already used to these transitions and was especially pleased with him today because he himself was in the best position of spirit.
'What I see!
That's good!-- he said pointing at the chests in the front.
'Yes, we must go.'
I went for a ride, and it was so good that I wanted to go to the village.
There's nothing stopping you, is there?
'I wish only one thing.'
I'm gonna come and talk to you, but I'm gonna change.
Have some tea.
And he went into his office.
There was something offensive about him saying, "That's good," as the child was told when he stopped being cranky; and even more offensive was the contrast between her guilt and his self-confident tone; and she felt for a moment an increasing desire to fight; but by making an effort at herself, she suffocated him and met him with the same fun.
When he went out to see her, she told him, in part, the words she had written, her day, and her plans to leave.
'You know, I was almost inspired,' she said. 'Why wait for a divorce here?'
Isn't it still in the village?
I can't wait any longer.
I don't want to hope, I don't want to hear about the divorce.
I decided it would no longer have an impact on my life.
And you agree?
'Yes!' he said, looking with concern at her agitated face.
'What were you doing there, who was there? 'She said, silently.'
Wronsky called the guests. 'Dinner was beautiful, and the boat race, and it was all nice, but they can't in Moscow without the Ridicule.
There was a lady, a Swedish queen's swim teacher, and she showed her art.
'How? Swimming? 'Hurrying,' asked Anna.
'In some red costum de nationality, old, ugly.'
So when do we go?
'What a stupid fantasy!
Well, does she swim in particular? 'Not answering,' said Anna.
'Surely nothing special.'
That's what I'm saying, it's stupid.
So when do you think you're going?
Anna shook her head like she wanted to drive away an unpleasant thought.
'When shall I go?'
The sooner the better.
We won't be able to make it tomorrow. The day after tomorrow.
'Yes... no, wait.
The day after Sunday, I have to be at my maman's,' he said, confused, because as soon as he said his mother's name, he felt a very suspicious look at himself.
His confusion confirmed her suspicion.
She flashed up and stepped away from him.
Now, not the Swedish Queen's teacher, but Princess 40ina, who lived in the suburban village with the Countess of Vronska, introduced herself to Anna.
'Can you go tomorrow? 'She said.'
'No, it isn't!
In a case in which I am going, trust and money will not be available tomorrow,' he replied.
'If so, we will not leave at all.
'Why not?
'I won't go later.
Monday or never!
'Why not?' 'Wronski said with surprise.' 'Cause that doesn't make any sense!
'It doesn't make sense to you because you don't care about me.
You don't want to understand my life.
One thing I've been busy with here is Gunna. You're saying it's a fake.
You said yesterday that I don't love my daughter, but I pretend I love this English woman, that it's not natural; I'd like to know what kind of life I can live here!
For a moment, she woke up and was terrified of what had changed her mind.
But knowing that she was ruining herself, she couldn't abstain, couldn't-- couldn't not show him how wrong he was, could not submit to him.
'I never said that; I said I wasn't sympathetic to this sudden love.
'Why aren't you bragging about your honesty telling the truth?
'I never brag and never tell lies,' he said quietly, holding his anger up. 'It's too bad if you don't respect...'
'Respect was made up to hide the empty place where love must be.'
And if you don't love me anymore, it's better and more honest to say it.
'No, it is becoming unbearable! 'Screaming out of his chair.' And when he stood in front of her, he slowly said, "What are you testing my patience for?" 'He said, as if he could say much more, but held back.' 'It has limits.
'What do you mean by that?' 'She cried with horror, looking at the clear expression of hatred that was in the whole face, and especially in the cruel, fearsome eyes.'
'I mean...' he began, but stopped. 'I have to ask you what you want me to do.
'What can I want?
I can only wish that you wouldn't leave me, you think,' she said, understanding everything he hadn't told me. 'But that's not what I want, it's secondary.
I want love and it doesn't.
So it's over!
She went to the door.
'Wait!
Wait... wait!-- said Vronsky, not to spread a dark fold of eyebrows, but to stop her by her hand. 'What's the matter?
I said I had to wait three days to leave, and you told me that I was lying, that I wasn't a fair man.
'Yes, and I repeat that the man who reproaches me, that he has sacrificed everything for me,' she said, recalling the words of the previous quarrel, 'that it is worse than a dishonest man, is a man without a heart.
'No, there are limits to patience!' he cried and quickly released her hand.
"He hates me, it's clear," she thought, silently, without looking back, by false steps, she left the room.
"He loves another woman, it's even clearer," she said to herself, entering her room. 'I want love, but it is not.'
So it's over,' she repeated her words, 'and we have to finish.'
"But how?" 'She asked herself and sat on the chair in front of the mirror.'
The thought of where she's going now -- whether the aunt she was raised with, Dolly, or just one abroad, and what he's doing now alone in the office, whether it's a final fight, or maybe still reconciliation, and that now she's gonna be talking about her all her peterburg former acquaintances, as Alexey Alexandrovich will look at it, and a lot of other thoughts about what's gonna happen now, after the breakup, that she's gonna get into her head, but she hasn't given it all her soul.
There was something in her heart that wasn't clear that she was only interested in, but she couldn't recognize her.
Thinking again of Alexei Alexandrovich, she also remembered the time of her illness after childbirth and the feeling she had not left at the time.
"Why didn't I die?" 'Remember her then words and her senses at that time.'
And she suddenly realized what was in her soul.
Yeah, that was the idea that one allowed everything to happen.
"Yeah, die!"
"And the shame and shame of Alexei Alexandrovich and Serezi and my terrible shame are all saved by death.
To die -- and he'll repent, he'll regret, he'll love, he'll suffer for me."
With a strong smile of compassion for herself, she sat in a chair, taking off and putting on rings on her left hand, living on different sides of the picture of his feelings after her death.
The coming steps, his steps, entertained her.
As busy as putting her rings on, she didn't even turn to him.
He went up to her and took her hand, and quietly said,
'Anna, let's go the day after tomorrow, if you want.
I'll take it from here.
She didn't say anything.
'What is it? 'He asked.'
'You know it yourself,' she said, and at the same moment, she could not hold back any more, she cried.
'Throw me down, come on!' she cried between the tears. 'I will leave tomorrow...'
I'll do more.
Who am I? She's a depraved woman.
The stone on your neck.
I don't want to torture you, I don't!
I'll free you.
You don't love, you love someone else!
He begged her to calm down and said that there was no ghost of the basis for her jealousy, that he would never stop loving her, that he loved her more than ever.
'Anna, why so torment yourself and me? 'He said, kissing her hands.'
His face was now tender, and she felt as if she heard in her ear the sound of tears in his voice and felt their moisture on her hand.
And Anna's instant desperate jealousy turned into desperate, passionate tenderness; she hugged him, covered him with kisses, his head, his neck, her hands.
Feeling that reconciliation was complete, Anna was busy preparing for her departure in the morning.
Although it was not decided whether they were going on Monday or Tuesday, because both of them had given up on one another yesterday, Anna was actively preparing to leave, feeling completely indifferent to the fact that they would leave the day before or after.
She stood in her room above the open chest, picking things up when he, already dressed, had entered her earlier than usual.
'I'm gonna go to the maman, and she can send me money through Egorov. And I am ready to go tomorrow,' he said.
As well as she was in the mood, the mention of a trip to her mother's house hit her.
'No, I won't be able to do it myself,' she said, and immediately she thought, 'It may have been possible to get settled to do as I wanted.' 'No, as you wish, do so.
Go to the dining room, I'll be right there, just picking up these unnecessary things,' she said, handing over to Annushka, who was already wearing a mountain of rags, something else.
Wronsky ate his beefsteak when she went out to the dining room.
'You wouldn't believe how these rooms got me,' she said, sitting beside him to her coffee. 'There is nothing worse than the chambres garnies.
No face in them, no soul.
This watch, the wardrobe, the wallpaper, it's a nightmare.
I think of Vozvolensky as a promised land.
You're not sending more horses?
'No, they will go after us.
Are you going anywhere?
'I wanted to go to Wilson. I'm gonna get her dresses.
So determined tomorrow? 'She said with a jolly voice; but suddenly her face changed.'
Vronsky's cameraman came to ask for a receipt for a telegram from Petersburg.
It wasn't a big deal to get the Vronskis, but he, as if he wanted to hide something from her, said that the receipt was in the office, and he rushed to her.
'Tomorrow I'll finish it all.'
'Who is it from?' 'She asked, without listening to him.'
'From Steve,' he answered reluctantly.
'Why didn't you show me?
What's the secret between Steve and me?
Vronsky turned the valet and told him to bring it to him.
'I didn't want to show you because Steve has a passion for telegraphing; so what about telegraphing when nothing is decided?'
'The divorce?'
'Yes, but he writes: Nothing has yet been accomplished.
I promised you a strong answer the other day.
Read it.
With trembling hands, Anna took the trembling, and she read the words she had said. At the end, it was added: there is little hope, but I will do everything I can and I will not.
'I said yesterday that I don't care at all when I get a divorce, and even if I get a divorce,' she said, red. 'There was no need to hide it from me.
"So he can hide and hide his correspondence with women from me," she thought.
'And Yaszwin wanted to come this morning with Voytov,' said Vronsky, 'it seems that he has won all and more than what he can pay, 'about 60,000.
'No,' she said, annoying that he was so clearly showing her that she was annoyed by this change of conversation, 'why do you think this news is so interesting to me that I should even hide it?
I said I didn't want to think about it, and I wish you had as little interest in it as I do.
'I am interested because I love clarity,' he said.
'The clarity is not in shape, but in love,' she said, increasingly annoying, not with words, but with the tone of the cold calm with which he spoke. 'What do you want this for?'
"Oh, my God, love again," he thought, wrinkling.
'You know for what reason: for you and for the children to come,' he said.
'There will be no children.
'It's very pathetic,' he said.
'You need this for the children, and you don't think of me? 'She said, forgetting completely and without hearing that he said, 'for you and for the children.'
The question of the possibility of having children had long been controversial and annoying.
His desire to have children was explained to her by the fact that he did not value her beauty.
'Oh, I said, for you.
Most of all for you, &quot; wrinkling, precisely for the pain, he repeated &quot; because I am sure that much of your irritation comes from uncertainty.
"Yeah, now he's stopped pretending, and there's all his cold hatred for me," she thought, not listening to his words, but looking awful at that cold and cruel judge who, teasing her, looked out of his eyes.
'The reason is not that,' she said, 'and I don't even understand how my, as you call it, irritation can be that I am completely in your power.
What is the uncertainty of the situation?
On the contrary.
'I am very sorry that you do not want to understand,' he interrupted her with perseverance to express his thoughts. 'The uncertainty is that you think I'm free.
'You can be perfectly calm about this,' she said, and turned away from him and started drinking coffee.
She picked up the cup by leaving the pinkie, and she carried it to her mouth.
After drinking a few throats, she looked at him, and the look on his face made it clear that he hated his hand, and the gesture, and the sound that she made with her lips.
'I don't care what your mother thinks and how she wants to marry you,' she said, putting a trembling hand on the cup.
'But that's not what we're talking about.
'No, that's what I'm talking about.
And believe me, a woman without a heart, whether she's an old woman or an old woman, your mother or a stranger, is not interesting to me, and I don't want to know her.
'Anna, I ask you not to speak respectfully of my mother.
'A woman who does not know with her heart what her son's happiness and honor are, has no heart.
'I repeat my request not to speak in contempt of my mother, whom I respect,' he said, raising his voice and looking strictly at her.
She didn't answer.
Looking closely at him, at his face, at her hands, she remembered the details of yesterday's reconciliation scene and his passionate affections.
"These are the same kind of caress he's been wasting and he's gonna waste and he's gonna want to waste on other women!" 'I thought she did.'
'You don't love your mother.
It's all phrases, phrases and phrases!-- looking at him with hate, she said.
'And if that's the case, you have to...'
'I have to make up my mind, and I have decided,' she said and wanted to leave, but Yashvin entered the room at that time.
Anna said hello to him and stopped. Why, when she had a storm in her soul and felt that she was standing at a turn of life that could have terrible consequences, why at that moment she had to pretend to be in front of someone else who would sooner or later learn everything -- she did not know; but immediately, having humbled herself with an internal storm, she sat down and spoke to the guest.
'Well, what's your business? Do you have a debt? 'She asked Yashwin.'
'Nothing; I don't think I'll get everything, but I have to go to the earring.
When are you? 'Yashwyn said, poking around, looking at Bronski, and apparently guessing the quarrel that had taken place.'
'I think the day after tomorrow,' said Vronsky.
'You've been going for a long time, though.
'But now it is decisive,' said Anna, looking straight into the eye of the Vronski with a look that told him not to think about the possibility of-- the possibility of reconciliation.
'Aren't you sorry for this poor singer?' 'She continued her conversation with Yashvin.'
'I never asked myself, Anna Arkadievna, whether it was pathetic or not.
'Cause my fortune is here,' he showed on the side pocket, and now I'm a rich man; and now I'm going to go to the club and maybe go out to the beggar.
'Cause whoever sits with me wants to keep my shirt off, and I want my shirt off.
Well, we're fighting, and that's a pleasure.
'Well, if you were married,' said Anna, 'how would your wife feel?
Yashwin laughed.
'Then I guess I didn't get married, and I never intended to.'
'And Helsingforce?' 'Bronsky said, when he entered into the conversation, and looked at Anna who smiled.'
When he saw his face, Anna's face suddenly accepted a cold, sharp expression, as if she had said to him, "It's not forgotten.
Same thing."
'Are you really in love?' 'She said to Yashwin.'
'Oh, my God! I don't know how many times!
But, you know, you can sit alone for cards, but you can always get up when the time comes for rendez-vous.
And I can make love, but I can't be late for the party tonight.
That's what I'm doing.
'No, I'm not asking about that, I'm asking about the real one. 'She wanted to say Helsingforce; but she didn't want to say the word of Vronsky.
Voights came to buy a stallion; Anna stood up and left the room.
Before leaving the house, Wronsky went in to see her.
She wanted to pretend she was looking for something on the table, but, ashamed of pretending, she looked directly into his face with a cold look.
'What do you want? 'She asked him in French.
'Take the Ghambetta certificate, I sold it,' he said in a tone that was clearer than the words: 'I have no time to explain, nor will I lead to anything.'
"It was not my fault for her," he thought. 'If she wants to punish herself, tant pis pour elle.'
But when he left, he thought that she had said something, and suddenly his heart was moved by compassion for her.
'What, Anna? 'He asked.'
'I am nothing,' she answered with the same cold and calmness.
"Nothing, so tant pis," he thought, cold again, turned around and went.
When he came out, he saw in the mirror her face, pale, with shivering lips.
He wanted to stop and say a comforting word to her, but his legs took him out of the room before he figured out what to say.
He spent the entire day outside the house, and when she arrived late in the evening, the girl told him that Anna Arkadievna had a headache and asked her not to come in.
There's never been a day in a fight.
This was the first time. And it wasn't a fight.
It was an obvious confession in total cooling.
How could you look at her the way he looked when he went into the room for a certificate?
To look at her, to see her heart burst with despair, and to walk away silently with that indifferent, calm face?
He didn't get cold with her, but he hated her because he loved another woman -- that was clear.
And remembering all the cruel words he had said, Anna made up other words that he evidently wanted and could tell her, and became more and more annoying.
"I can't hold you," he might have said. 'You can go wherever you want.
You didn't want to divorce your husband, probably to go back to him.
Come back.
If you need money, I'll give it to you.
How many rubles do you need?"
All the cruelst words a rude man could say, he told her in her imagination, and she did not forgive him as if he had actually said them.
"Didn't he just swear love yesterday, he's a true and honest man?
Have I not despaired many times in vain?" 'Then she spoke to herself.
All day long, with the exception of the trip to Wilson, which took her two hours, Anna spent doubting whether it was over or whether there was a hope of reconciliation and whether she should leave now or see him again.
She waited for him all day and night, walking into her room, ordering him to tell him that she had a headache, she wished to say, "If he comes despite the maid's words, then he still loves.
If it isn't, then it's over, and then I'll decide what to do."
In the evening, she heard the stopped knock of his wheelchair, his call, his steps, and his conversation with the girl: he believed what he had been told, didn't want to learn anything else, and went to his room.
So it was over.
And death, as the only means to restore his love for her in his heart, to punish him, and to win the struggle that the wicked spirit in her heart led with him, became clear and alive to her.
Now it didn't matter whether or not to go to Vozvolensky, get or not to get a divorce from her husband, it wasn't necessary.
One thing you had to do was punish him.
When she poured herself a routine treatment of opium and thought that all it took was a drink to die, it seemed so easy and easy for her to think again with pleasure about how he would suffer, repent, and love her memory when it was too late.
She was lying in bed with her eyes open, staring at the light of one burnt candle on the blinded crown of the ceiling and on the enveloping part of its shadow from the screen, and imagining how he would feel when it was gone and it would be only one memory for him.
"How could I say those cruel words to her? 'He will speak.' 'How could I leave the room without telling her anything?'
But now she's gone.
She left us forever.
She's there..."
Suddenly the shadow of the screen shaked, seized the entire carnival, the whole ceiling, the other shadows on the other side ran to meet it; for a moment the shadows ran away, but then moved with a new speed, shook, merged, and everything became dark...
"Death!" 'She thought.'
And it was so awful that she couldn't figure out where she was for a long time, and she couldn't find matches with trembling hands and light another candle instead of the one that was burned and dead.
"No, it's all about living!
Because I love him.
Because he loves me! "It was and will pass away," she said, feeling that the tears of joy of returning to life were flowing down her cheeks.
And to save herself from her fear, she rushed into his office.
He slept heavily in his office.
She approached him and looked at his face from above for a long time.
Now that he had slept, she loved him so that when she saw him she could not hold back the tears of tenderness; but she knew that if he had woken up, he would have looked at her cold, conscious of his right eyes, and that, before telling him about her love, she would have had to prove to him how guilty he had been before her.
Without waking him, she returned to her home, and after a second treatment of opium by morning, she fell asleep in a difficult, incomplete sleep during which she continued to feel.
In the morning, a terrible nightmare, repeated several times in her dreams before she was in contact with Wronski, appeared to her again and woke her up.
An old man with a cracked beard did something by leaning over iron, condemning pointless French words, and she felt, as always, a nightmare (which was his horror) that this man was ignoring her, but doing something terrible about her iron.
And she woke up in a cold sweat.
When she got up, she remembered yesterday as a fog.
"There was a fight.
There's been something that's happened several times.
I said I had a headache, and he didn't come in.
Tomorrow we go, we have to see him and get ready to leave,' she said to herself.
And when she found out he was in the office, she went to see him.
As she walked through the living room, she heard that the crew had stopped at the door, and when she looked out the window, she saw a carriage from which a young girl in a purple hat was hanging, ordering something from the ringing footman.
After the negotiations, someone went upstairs to the front, and next to the living room, the steps of Vronski were heard.
He took a quick step down the stairs.
Anna went to the window again.
So he went out without a hat on the porch and went to the carriage.
A young girl in a purple hat gave him a bag.
Vronsky, smiling, said something to her.
The carriage left; it quickly ran back up the stairs.
The fog in her soul suddenly vanished.
Yesterday's feelings with a new pain caused a heart condition.
She couldn't figure out how she could have humiliated herself before spending the whole day with him in his house.
She went into his office to announce her decision to him.
'It's 40in and her daughter who stopped by and brought me the money and the paper from the maman.
I couldn't get it yesterday.
How's your head, better? 'He said calmly, not wanting to see and understand the dark and solemn expression of her face.'
She stared silently at him standing in the middle of the room.
He looked at her, frowned for a moment and kept reading the letter.
She turned around and slowly left the room.
He could still have returned her, but she reached the door, he kept quiet, and all he could hear was the sound of a rolling piece of paper.
'Yes, by the way,' he said, while she was already at the door, 'we are going decisively tomorrow? Isn't that right?
'You, but not me,' she said, turning to him.
'Anna, it is impossible to live...'
'You, but not me,' she repeated.
'It is becoming unbearable!
'You'll... you'll regret it,' she said and went out.
Scared of the desperate expression with which those words had been spoken, he jumped up and wanted to run after her, but when he remembered, he sat down again and frowned upon his teeth.
This indecent, as he found, threat to something annoyed him.
'I've tried everything,' he thought, 'there's one thing left to ignore,' and he started going to town and back to his mother, from whom he should have signed the credentials.
She heard the sound of his steps in the office and the dining room.
He's staying at the living room.
But he didn't turn to her, he only ordered that Voight be released without him.
Then she heard the pram served, the door opened, and he came out again.
But then he went into the hay again, and someone ran upstairs.
It was the valet running after the forgotten gloves.
She walked up to the window and saw him without looking at his gloves and touching his back, something said to him.
Then, without looking through the windows, he sat down in his usual position in a wheelchair, putting his foot on his leg, and by putting on his glove, he fled around the corner.
He's gone!
It's over!" 'Anna said to herself, standing by the window; and in response to this question, the impression of darkness in an extinct candle and a terrible dream, blending into one cold horror filled her heart.
"No, it can't be!" 'She cried and made a strong call across the room.'
She was so scared to be alone now that without waiting for a man to come, she went to meet him.
'Know where the Count went,' she said.
The man replied that the count had gone to the stables.
'They have ordered you to report that if you wish to leave, the stroller will be back in a moment.'
'All right.
Wait.
I'm gonna write you a note.
Send Michail a note to the stables.
Hurry up.
She sat down and wrote:
"It's my fault.
Come home, I have to explain.
For God's sake, I'm scared."
She sealed it and gave it to the man.
She was afraid of being alone now, and after a man came out of the room and went to the nursery.
"Well, that's not it, it's not him!
Where's his blue eyes, sweet and shy smile?" 'It was her first thought when she saw her chubby, curly little girl with black curly hair, instead of Serezha, whom she expected to see in her childhood when she was confused.
The girl, sitting by the table, clapping it hard and hard with a cork and looking at her mother pointlessly with two black eyes.
When she said to the English woman that she was healthy and that she was leaving for the village tomorrow, Anna sat down with the girl and started spinning the traffic from the countess in front of her.
But the loud, ringing laughter of the child and the movement that she had made her eyebrow reminded her so vividly that by keeping her crying, she got up and came out in haste.
"Is it really over?
No, it can't be,' she thought. 'He will return.
But how does he explain this smile to me, it's a recovery after he talked to her?
But he won't, but I will.
If I don't believe it, there's only one thing left for me, and I don't want it."
She looked at the watch.
It's been 12 minutes.
"Now he's got a note and he's going back.
Not long, ten more minutes...
But what if he doesn't come?
No, it can't be.
I don't want him to see me with my eyes crying.
I'm gonna go wash up.
Yeah, yeah, did I comb my hair or not?" 'She asked herself. I couldn't remember.
She felt her head with her hand.
"Yeah, I'm hairbrushed, but when, I don't really remember."
She didn't even believe her hand and came up to the hold to see if she was really haircut or not?
She was haircut and couldn't remember when she did it.
"Who's that?" 'She thought, looking in the mirror at an inflammated face with strangely shiny eyes looking at her.
"It's me," she suddenly realized, and looking back at herself, she suddenly felt his kisses and shuddered and moved her shoulders.
Then she raised her hand to her lips and kissed her.
"What is it, I'm going crazy," and she went to the bedroom where Annushka was cleaning the room.
'Annushka,' she said, standing in front of her and looking at the maid, not knowing what she would say.
'To Daria Alexandrovna you wanted to go,' said the maid, as she understood it.
'To Daria Alexandrovna?
Yeah, I'm gonna go.
"Fifteen minutes over there, fifteen minutes ago. He's on his way, he'll be on his way. 'She took out her watch and looked at it. 'But how could he leave me in this position?
How can he live without making peace with me?"
She walked up to the window and looked outside.
He could've been back by now.
But the calculation might have been wrong, and she remembered again when he left and counted the minutes.
While she went to the big watch to check on hers, someone pulled up.
Looking out the window, she saw his wheelchair.
But no one went to the stairs, and voices were heard downstairs.
It was a messenger who came back in a wheelchair.
She went to him.
'The Count has not been caught.
They left for the Nizhegorod road.
'What do you want?
What? 'She turned to the blushing, hilarious Michaela, who had given her her note back.'
"He didn't get it," she remembered.
'Go with the same note to the village of Countess Wronsky, you know?
And immediately give me the answer,' she said to the messenger.
"What am I gonna do? 'She thought.' 'Yes, I'll go to Dolly, it's true, or I'll go crazy.
Yeah, I can still wire."
And she wrote to the child:
"I need to talk to you, come now."
After sending a telegram, she went to get dressed.
Already dressed and wearing a hat, she once again looked into the eyes of a fat, calm Annushka.
The obvious compassion was evident in these little gray eyes.
'Annushka, honey, what am I gonna do?' 'Screaming,' said Anna, reclining helplessly on the chair.
'What to worry about, Anna Arkadievna!
'Cause it happens.
You go, you'll settle down,' said the maid.
'Yes, I will go,' said Anna, remembering and getting up. 'And if there is a telegram without me, send it to Daria Alexandrovna...'
No, I'll be right back.
"Yeah, don't think we should do something, go, the most important thing is to leave this house," she said, horribly listening to the awful cloth in her heart and rushing out and getting into the wheelchair.
'Where do you want me to go? 'Peter asked, before he sat on the goats.'
'To the Celebrity, to the Oblons.'
The weather was clear.
It's been raining a lot all morning, and now it's clear.
Iron roofs, pavement plates, naked bridges, wheels and skin, copper and crew iron -- all shiny in May's sun.
It was three hours and the busiest time on the streets.
Sitting in the corner of the dead stroller, slightly shuddering at the speed of the gray ones, Anna saw her position very different from what she thought she was at home when she was sitting in the corner of the dead stroller, recircling the events of the last few days.
Now the thought of death did not seem to her more fear - inspiring and clear, nor did death seem more inevitable.
Now she's blaming herself for the humiliation she went down to.
"I beg him to forgive me.
I submitted to him.
I found myself guilty.
Can't I live without him?"
And without answering the question of how she would live without him, she began reading signs.
"The store and the warehouse.
The tooth doctor.
Yeah, I'll tell Dolly everything.
She doesn't like Wronsky.
It's gonna hurt, it's gonna hurt, but I'm gonna tell her.
She loves me, and I will follow her advice.
I will not obey him; I will not allow him to raise himself.
Philipov, the snails.
They say they're taking the dough to Petersburg.
The water is Moscow so good.
And mouse wells and pancakes."
And she remembered how long ago, when she was 17 years old, she went with her aunt to the Trinity.
"There's more on the horses.
Was it me with red hands?
How much of what I thought was so beautiful and unaffordable at the time became negligible, and what was then is now forever inaccessible.
Would I then believe that I could come to such humiliation?
How proud and pleased he will be to receive my note!
But I'll prove it to him...
That paint smells so bad.
Why do they paint and build everything?
Fashion and clothing," she read.
The man bowed to her.
It was Annushka's husband.
'Our vermin,' she remembered, as was the words of Vronsky. 'Ours? Why ours?
It's a terrible thing that can't be ripped out with the root of the past.
You can't rip it out, but you can hide his memory.
And I'll hide it."
And then she remembered her past with Alexei Alexandrovich, how she wiped him out of her memory.
"Dollie's gonna think I'm leaving my second husband and that's why I'm probably wrong.
I don't want to be right!
I can't!" 'She talked, and she wanted to cry.'
But she immediately began to think about what those two girls might have been smiling at.
"Right, about love?
They don't know how funny it is, how low...
Boulevard and the kids.
Three boys running around playing horses.
Serezha!
And I'm gonna lose everything, and I'm not gonna bring it back.
Yeah, I'll lose everything if he doesn't come back.
He may have missed the train and now he's back.
You want humiliation again! 'She said to herself. 'No, I'll go in to Dolly and I'll tell her straight: I'm unhappy, I'm worth it, I'm guilty, but I'm unhappy, so help me.
These horses, this wheelchair -- how disgusting I am in this wheelchair -- all of it; but I will never see them again."
'Hello? 'She asked in front.'
'Caterina Alexandrovna Levina,' answered the footman.
"Kiti! "The very Kitty he was in love with," Anna thought, "the one he remembered with love.
He regrets not marrying her.
And he remembers me with hatred and regrets that he has come to me."
There was a feeding meeting between the sisters while Anna arrived.
Dolly alone went out to meet a guest who was interrupting their conversation at this moment.
'Ah, you haven't left yet?
'I wanted to be with you myself,' she said, 'now I have received a letter from Steve.
'We too have received the message,' replied Anna, looking back to see Kitty.
'He writes that he cannot understand exactly what Alexis Alexandrovich wants, but that he will not leave without an answer.
'I thought you had someone.
Can I read the letter?
'Yes, Kitty,' said Dolly, embarrassed,'she stayed in the nursery.
She was very sick.
'I heard.
'I'll get it for you.
But he does not refuse; on the contrary, Steve hopes,' said Dolly, stopping by.
'I do not hope, nor do I wish,' said Anna.
"Well, does Kitty think it's humiliating to meet me? 'I thought Anna was alone.' 'Maybe she's right.
But not her, the one who was in love with Wronski, not her to show me this, even though it's true.
I know no decent woman can accept me in my position.
I know I sacrificed everything to him from that first minute!
And here's the reward!
Oh, I hate him so much!
Why did I come here?
Even worse, even harder,' she heard from the other room the voices of the two sisters who had spoken. 'What am I gonna say now to Dolly?'
To comfort Kitty that I'm unhappy, to obey her patronymic?
No, and Dolly won't understand.
And I have nothing to say to her.
It would only be interesting to see Kitty and show her how much I despise everyone, how much I don't care anymore."
Dolly came in with a letter.
Anna read it and gave it silently.
'I knew all that,' she said. 'And I am not interested in that at all.
'Why not?
On the contrary, I hope so,' said Dolly, curiously looking at Anna.
She's never seen her in such a strangely annoying state. 'When are you going?' 'She asked.'
Anna looked down before herself and did not answer her.
'Why is Kitty hiding from me? 'She said, looking at the door and red.
'Oh, it's nothing!
She's feeding, and she's not doing well, so I told her...
She's very happy.
She is about to come,' said Dolly, embarrassingly untruthful. 'Here she is.
When she found out that Anna had arrived, Kitty wanted to stay away; but Dolly talked her into it.
As she gathered her strength, Kitty came out and, blushing, came up to her and gave her hand.
'I am very pleased,' she said with a trembling voice.
Kitty was embarrassed by the struggle that took place in her, between the hostility toward this wicked woman and the desire to be condescending to her; but as soon as she saw Anna's beautiful, handsome face, all the hostility immediately disappeared.
'I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't want to meet me.'
I'm used to everything.
Were you ill?
Yes, you have changed,' said Anna.
Kitty felt that Anna looked at her hostilely.
She attributed this hostility to the awkward situation in which Anna, who had previously protected her, now felt sorry for her.
They talked about the disease, the baby, Steve, but apparently nothing interested Anna.
'I came to say goodbye to you,' she said, getting up.
'When are you going?'
But Anna again, without answering, turned to Kitty.
'Yes, I am very glad to see you,' she said with a smile. 'I have heard so much about you from all sides, even from your husband.
I had it, and I liked it very much,' apparently with a bad intention, she added it. 'Where is he?
'He went to the village,' said Kitty, blushing.
'Bow to him from me, surely bow.'
'Surely!' said Kitty naively, looking her in the eye.
'So goodbye, Dolly!' And by kissing Dolly and shaking Kitty's hand, Anna came out in haste.
'It's still as attractive as it is.
Very good!' said Kitty, alone with her sister. 'But there's something pathetic about her! It's awful pathetic!
'No, there is something special about her today,' said Dolly. 'When I walked her in the front, I thought she wanted to cry.
Anna got into a wheelchair in an even worse condition than she was when she left home.
Her feelings of insult and rejection, which she clearly felt when she met Kitty, have now joined the previous torment.
'Where do you want me to go?
Home? 'Peter asked.'
'Yes, to go home,' she said, without even thinking about where she was going.
"How they looked at me like something scary, confusing and curious.
What can he talk about with such heat? 'I thought she was looking at two pedestrians.' 'Is it possible to tell someone else what you feel?
I wanted to tell Dolly, and it's a good thing I didn't.
How happy she would have been for my misfortune!
She would hide it; but the main feeling would be that I was punished for the pleasures she envied me.
Kitty, she'd be even more happy.
I can see right through her!
She knows I'm more than usual, kind to her husband.
And she's jealous and hates me. And despises more.
In her eyes, I am an immoral woman.
If I were an immoral woman, I could fall in love with her husband... if I wanted to.
Yeah, that's what I wanted.
This one is pleased with herself,' she thought of a fat, blushing gentleman who passed by, took her as a friend and raised her hair above a bald, bald head and then convinced that he had made a mistake. 'He thought he knew me.
And he doesn't know me as much as anyone in the world knows me.
I don't know.
I know my appetites, as the French say.
They want that dirty ice cream. They probably know that,' she thought, looking at the two boys who stopped the ice-cream, who took the pebble off his head and wiped his sweaty face with the end of the towel. 'We all want sweet, delicious.'
No candy, no dirty ice cream.
And too, Kitty, not Wronsky, then Levin.
And she's jealous of me.
And hates me.
And we all hate each other.
I'm Kitty, Kitty, me.
That's the truth.
Tutkin, coiffeur.
Je me fais coiffer par Tutkin...
I will tell him that when he arrives,' she thought and smiled.
But at the same moment, she remembered that she didn't have anyone to say anything funny anymore. 'And nothing funny, nothing funny.'
It's gross.
They're calling tonight, and this guy's getting baptized. 'Surely afraid to drop something.'
Why are these churches, this call, and this lie?
Just to hide that we all hate each other, like these drivers who fight so hard.
Yashwin says he wants to leave me without my shirt, and I want him.
That's the truth!"
On these thoughts, which attracted her to the point where she stopped even thinking about her situation, she was caught stopping at the porch of her home.
When she saw the doorman in front of her, she just remembered sending a note and a telegram.
'Is there an answer?' 'She asked.'
'I will now look,' answered the doorman and looked at the office and got her a square, thin envelope of the telegram.
"I can't be here till ten o'clock. Wronsky," she read.
'Didn't the messenger come back?
'No,' answered the doorman.
"And if so, I know what to do," she said, and when she felt an uncertain anger and a need for revenge, she ran upstairs. 'I will go to him myself.
Before I leave forever, I'll tell him everything.
I've never hated anyone as much as this man!" 'I thought she did.'
When she saw his hat on the rack, she freaked out.
She did not realize that his telegram was the answer to her telegram and that he had not yet received her note.
She now imagined him to be calmly speaking to her mother and to Forty and her joyous suffering.
"Yeah, I have to go faster," she said to herself, not knowing where to go yet.
She wanted to get away from the feelings she felt in this terrible house.
The servants, the walls, the things in this house -- everything in it caused disgust and anger and pressured it with some kind of weight.
"Yeah, we should go to the railway station, and if we don't, we should go there and find him."
Anna looked at the train schedule in the papers.
She leaves at eight o'clock tonight for two minutes.
"Yeah, I'll catch up."
She told me to lay down other horses and put things in the road bag for a few days.
She knew she wouldn't come back here anymore.
She was confused about the plans that came to her mind, and what would happen there at the station or in the Countess's name would go down the Nizhegorod road to the first city and stay there.
Lunch stood on the table, and she came up, and smelled bread and cheese, and made sure that the smell of everything she ate was disgusting to her, and told her to serve the stroller, and came out.
The house had already cast a shadow across the street, and it was a clear, still warm evening in the sun.
And Annushka, who walked her with her things, and Peter, who put things in a wheelchair, and the coachman, apparently displeased, were all disgusted with her and annoyed her with his words and his movements.
'I don't need you, Peter.
'What about the ticket?'
'Well, whatever you want, I don't care,' she said with shame.
Peter jumped up on the goats and, when he was anxious, ordered him to go to the train station.
"Here she is again!
"I understand everything again," said Anna, "as soon as the stroller touched and shoved on a small bridge, one after the other, the impressions began to change.
"Yeah, what was the last thing I thought so well? 'She tried to remember.' 'Tutkin, coiffer?
No, it's not.
Yes, about what Yashwin says: the struggle for existence and hatred is one thing that connects people.
No, you're going in vain,' she approached the company in the foursome, which apparently was going to have fun out of town. 'And the dog you're bringing with you will not help you.'
You're not gonna get away with this."
Looking the way Peter turned, she saw a half-dead factory with a rocking head that she was taking somewhere in the city.
"This one -- more like," she thought. 'We did not find that pleasure either, although we expected much from him.'
And Anna turned now, for the first time, the bright light in which she saw everything, her relationship with him, which she had previously avoided thinking about.
"What was he looking for in me?
Love is not so much the satisfaction of vanity."
She remembered his words, the look on his face, reminiscent of a humble cop dog, at the very first time they were connected.
And now it's all confirmed.
"Yes, it was a triumph of vain success.
Of course, there was love, but there was a great deal of pride in success.
He bragged about me.
Now it's over.
There's nothing to be proud of.
Not to be proud, to be ashamed.
He took everything he could from me, and now he doesn't need me.
He weighs heavily on me and tries not to be dishonest about me.
He talked yesterday -- he wants a divorce and a marriage to burn his ships.
He loves me -- but how?
The zest is gone.
'This one wants to surprise everyone and is very pleased with herself,' she thought, looking at a blazing orderman riding a manger horse. 'Yes, that taste is not in me.
If I leave him, he'll be happy deep down."
That was not an assumption, &quot; she clearly saw it in the piercing light that now gave her the meaning of life and human relations.
"My love keeps getting hotter and more loving, and it's all going to go out and go out, and that's why we're breaking up," she kept thinking. 'And you can't help it.
It's all the same to me, and I demand that more and more of it be given to me.
And he wants more and more to leave me.
We were on our way to contact, and then we were inexorably divided. And you can't change that.
He tells me I'm senselessly jealous, and I've told myself that I'm pointlessly jealous; but it's not true.
I'm not jealous, and I'm not happy.
But... 'She opened her mouth and moved in a wheelchair because of the excitement she had suddenly had in her mind. 'If I could be anything but a mistress who is passionately fond of his caress; but I cannot and do not want to be anything else.'
And with this desire, I make him disgust, and he's angry with me, and it can't be different.
Don't I know that he wouldn't lie to me, that he has no view of 40, that he's not in love with Kitty, that he wouldn't cheat on me?
I know all this, but it doesn't make me feel any better.
If, when he does not love me, he is kind, gentle to me, and not what I want, it is a thousand times worse than even anger!
This is hell!
That's what this is.
He hasn't loved me in a long time.
And where love ends, there's hatred.
I don't know these streets at all.
There are mountains, all at home, at home...
And all the people in the houses, people...
How many of them there is no end, and everyone hates each other.
Well, let me think of something I want to be happy about. Well?
I'm getting a divorce, Alexis Alexandrovich is giving me Serezha, and I'm getting married to Vronsky."
When she thought of Alexe Alexandrovich, she immediately pictured him as a living person, before herself, with his mild, lifeless, extinct eyes, blue dwellings on white hands, intonations, and rubbish fingers, and when she remembered the feeling that was between them, which was also called love, she shuddered from disgust.
"Well, I'm gonna get a divorce and I'm gonna be Vronsky's wife.
So Kitty's gonna stop looking at me the way she looked at me today?
Nope.
Is Serezha gonna stop asking or thinking about my two husbands?
What's the new feeling I'm gonna come up with between me and Wronski?
Is there any way that happiness can be no longer but torment?
No and no!' she said to herself now without any hesitation. 'Impossible!
We're out of our lives, and I'm making him miserable, he's mine, and I can't redo him or me.
All attempts have been made, the screw has swerved.
Yeah, the beggar with the baby.
She thinks she's pathetic.
Aren't we all thrown into the world just to hate each other and to torment ourselves and others?
The hymnists are coming, they're laughing.
Serezha? 'She remembered.' 'I thought I loved him, too, and I was sorry for my tenderness.
And I lived without him, and I traded him for another love, and I didn't complain about that trade until I was satisfied with that love."
And she repulsedly remembered what she called that love.
And the clarity with which she now saw her life and all the people made her happy.
"So do I, and Peter, and Fedor's coach, and this merchant, and all the people who live there on the Volga, where they invite these ads, everywhere and always," she thought, when she had already come up to the low building of the Lower City Station and she was approached by the architects.
'Will you order me before the Screaming?' 'Peter said.'
She completely forgot where and why she was going, and only with great effort could she understand the question.
'Yes,' she said to him, giving him a wallet with money, and, with a little red bag in her hand, she came out of the wheelchair.
Coming between the crowd in the first class room, she briefly remembered all the details of her situation and the solutions between which she hesitated.
Again, the hope, then the despair at the old, sick places, began to poison the wounds of her tormented, apprehensive heart.
Sitting on the star-shaped couch waiting for the train, she thought with disgust at those who entered and went out (all of them hated her) about how she would arrive at the station, write him a note, and what she would write to him, how he was now complaining to his mother (not understanding her suffering) about her position, and how she would enter the room, and what she would say to him.
She was thinking about how life could still be happy, how painfully she loved and hated him, and how scary her heart beats.
There was a call, some young men passing through, ugly, arrogant and hasty, and together paying attention to the impression they had made; and Peter went through the hall in his liquor and barblets, with a dumb animal's face, and approached her to escort her to the wagon.
Noisy men quieted when she walked past them on the platform, and one whispered something about her to the other, of course something nasty.
She went up to the high step and sat alone in a compartment on a springy, once white couch. The bag, flickering on the springs, calmed down.
Peter raised his gallon hat by the window with a stupid smile, and the arrogant conductor slammed the door and tickled it.
The lady, ugly, with the tournament (Anna mentally divided this woman and horrified her deformity), and the girl didn't laugh naturally, ran downstairs.
'Caterina Andreevna, she has everything, ma tante! 'The girl screamed.'
"The girl -- and she's disfigured and crooked," Anna thought.
In order not to see anyone, she quickly stood up and sat down to the opposite window in an empty wagon.
The filthy, ugly man in the back of his hat, with his hair sticking around, walked past this window, bent over to the wheels of the car.
"Something familiar with this ugly man," Anna thought.
And when she remembered her dream, she freaked out to the opposite door.
The conductor opened the door by letting his husband in with his wife.
'Would you like to go out?'
Anna didn't answer.
The conductor and those who came in didn't notice the horror on her face under the veil.
She went back to her corner and sat down.
Chet sat down on the opposite side, carefully, but secretly looking around her dress.
Both husband and wife seemed disgusting to Anna.
The husband asked if she would allow her to smoke, obviously not to smoke, but to talk to her.
After receiving her consent, he spoke to his wife in French about the fact that he had to speak even less than to smoke.
They talked, pretending, stupid, just to make her hear.
Anna clearly saw how they were bothering each other and how much they hated each other.
And you shouldn't have hated such pathetic freaks.
A second call was heard, followed by the movement of luggage, noise, screaming and laughter.
Anna was so clear that no one was happy that that laughter had annoyed her, and she wanted to shut her ears so she wouldn't hear him.
Finally, the third bell rang, the whistle whistle whistled, the wolf screamed, the chain broke, and the husband crossed over.
'It would be interesting to ask him what he meant by this,' thought Anna with an angry look at him.
She looked past the lady through the window at exactly the same thing as the backsliding people who were driving the train and standing on the platform.
By blowing the tracks evenly, the car in which Anna was sitting drove past the platform, the stone wall, the disc, past other wagons; the wheels were smoother and more oily; the light sounded on the tracks, the window was lit by a bright evening sun, and the breeze was played with a curtain.
Anna forgot about her neighbors in the car and, on a light ride, breathed fresh air into her body, she began to think again.
"Yeah, where was I?
It's that I can't come up with a situation where life isn't torture, that we're all made to suffer, and that we all know it and we all come up with the means to deceive ourselves.
And when you see the truth, what will you do?"
'The mind has been given to man to get rid of what is bothering him,' said the French lady, apparently content with her phrase and made-up.
These words seem to have answered Anna's mind.
"To get rid of what's bothering me," Anna repeated.
And when she looked at the red - cheeked husband and the skinny wife, she realized that a painful wife considered herself to be an incomprehensible woman, and the husband deceived her and supported her in that view of herself.
It's like Anna saw their story and all the shacks of their souls, putting the light on them.
But there was nothing interesting about it, and she kept thinking.
"Yeah, it really bothers me, and it gives me reason to get rid of it, so I guess I gotta get rid of it.
Why not put out the candle when there's nothing else to look at when it's disgusting to look at it?
But how?
Why did this conductor run through the ventricle, why are they yelling, these young men in that car?
Why are they telling me why they're laughing?
It's not true, it's all lies, it's all lies, it's all evil!"
When the train approached the station, Anna went out into a crowd of other passengers and, like the lepers, stopped on the platform, trying to remember why she had come here and what she was going to do.
Everything she thought was possible before was now so difficult to understand, especially in the noisy crowd of all these ugly people who left her alone.
The archers ran up to her and offered her their services; then the young men, knocking heels on the platform boards and talking loudly, looking over her, went the wrong way.
When she remembered that she wanted to go further, if there was no answer, she stopped an artifact and asked if there was a puddler with a note to Count Wronsky.
'The Count of Vronski?'
They were here right now. We met Princess Forty with her daughter.
What kind of coachman is he?
While she was talking to the painter, Michaela's cooper, brown, funny, in the blue patio and chain, apparently proud of the fact that he was doing the job so well, he came up to her and gave her a note.
She printed it, and her heart was crumbled before she read it.
"I'm sorry the note didn't catch me.
"I will be at ten o'clock," he wrote with a careless handwriting.
"That's it! I've been waiting for this!" 'She said to herself with an evil laugh.'
'Okay, go home,' she said quietly, turning to Michaela.
She spoke quietly because the speed of heartbeat prevented her from breathing.
"No, I won't let you torture yourself," she thought, threatening not him, not herself, but the one who made her suffer and walking over the platform by the station.
Two maids walking on the platform turned their heads back looking at her, thinking out loud about her toilet, "The real ones," they said about the lace she was wearing.
Young people didn't leave her alone.
They again, looking in her face and laughing and screaming something non-natural, passed by.
The station manager asked if she was coming.
The boy, the kwasa salesman, kept an eye on her.
"Oh, my God, where am I going?" --and went further and further on the platform, she thought.
She stopped at the end.
Ladies and children who met the master in the glasses and laughed loudly and spoke, silently looking back at her when she was even with them.
It accelerated the step and moved away from them to the edge of the platform.
The freight train was coming.
The platform was shaking, and she thought she was coming again.
And all of a sudden, when she remembered the crushed man the day she first met him, she realized what she had to do.
A quick, easy step down the steps from the water pump to the rails, she stopped near her passing train.
She looked at the bottom of the wagons, the screws and chains, and the high iron wheels of the slow-rolling first wagon and the eyemaker tried to determine the middle between the front and rear wheels and the minute the midway was against her.
"That way!" she said to herself, looking in the shade of the car, at the coal-flagged sand that had been filled with spals -- that way, in the middle, and I will punish him and get rid of everyone and myself."
She wanted to fall into the middle of the first car. But the red bag she took off her hand delayed her, and it was too late: the middle passed her.
I should've waited for the next car.
A feeling like the one she felt when she was bathing, preparing to enter the water, covered her, and she crossed over.
The usual gesture of God's sign caused a series of girls' and children's memories in her soul, and suddenly the darkness that covered her was torn apart, and life appeared to her for a moment with all her bright past joys.
But she kept an eye on the wheels of a suitable second car. And just as the middle between the wheels was leveled with her, she threw a red bag away and, by shoving her head into her shoulders, fell under the car on her arms and light motion, as if ready to get up immediately, she fell down on her knees.
And at the same moment, she was terrified of what she was doing.
"Where am I?
What am I doing?
Why?"
She wanted to get up, tossed away; but something huge, inexorable pushed her into the head and dragged her behind her back.
"My Lord, forgive me all!" 'She spoke, feeling impossible to fight.'
The man, in sentencing something, was working on iron.
And the candle, by which she read a book filled with anxiety, deception, sorrow, and evil, came forth brighter than ever, with light, lit up all that was before in the darkness, blazing, frowning, and blackened out forever.
PART EIGHTH
It's been almost two months.
It was half a hot summer, and Sergei Ivanovic was just about to leave Moscow.
In Koznyshev's life, events took place during that time.
A year ago, his book, the fruit of six years of work, entitled "Experience of the review of fundamentals and forms of statehood in Europe and Russia", was completed.
Some of the sections of this book and the introduction were printed in temporary publications, and others were read by Sergei Ivanovic to his people, so that the ideas of this essay could not be already the perfect news for the public; but Koznyshev expected that his book, by its appearance, would make a serious impression on society and, if not a revolution in science, in any case a great deal of excitement in the scientific world.
This book, after careful editing, was published last year and distributed to book-sellers.
Without asking anyone about her, reluctantly and indifferently responding to his friends' questions about how his book goes, without even asking the book-sellers how it is bought, Sergius Ivanovic, stared at the first impression that his book would make in society and in literature.
But a week later, another, third, and there was no visible impression in society; his friends, specialists, and scientists, sometimes apparently out of courtesy, talked about her. The rest of his acquaintances, however, did not talk to him about it without interested in the scientific book.
And in society, especially now occupied by others, there was complete indifference.
In the literature, too, there was no word about the book during the month.
Sergei Ivanovic was counting on the time needed to write the review, but a month later, another, was the same silence.
It was only in the "North Bug" in the joke feleton about the singer Drabanti, who slept out of the voice, that a few contemptible words were said about the book of Koznyshev, which showed that the book had long been condemned by all and committed to universal ridicule.
Finally, for the third month, a critical article appeared in a serious magazine.
Koznyshev also knew the author of the article.
He met him once at Bluebow's.
The author of the article was a very young and sick feletonist, very violent as a writer, but extremely poorly educated and shy in personal relationships.
Despite his contempt for the author, Sergei Ivanovic began reading the article with full respect.
The article was awful.
Apparently, the feletonist deliberately understood the entire book in a way that was impossible to understand.
But it was so clever that for those who had not read the books (and apparently almost no one had read it), it was quite clear that the whole book was nothing more than a set of high-spouse words, and not enough of those used (which showed the question signs), and that the author of the book was a completely ignorant man.
And it was all so witty that Sergei Ivanovic himself wouldn't mind such a wit; but it was awful.
Despite the perfect good faith with which Sergei Ivanovic checked the fairness of the reviewer &apos; s arguments, he did not dwell for a moment on the shortcomings and mistakes that had been ridiculed -- it was too obvious that all of this had been done on purpose -- but immediately, involuntarily, he remembered his meeting and conversation with the author of the article.
"Did I hurt him with anything?" 'Asked Koznyshev.
And when he remembered how he corrected that young man in his ignorance when he met him, Sergei Ivanovic found an explanation for the meaning of the article.
After this article came a dead, printed and oral silence about the book, and Koznyshev saw that his six - year - old work, developed with such love and hard work, had passed without any trace.
Koznyshev's position was even more difficult because, after completing the book, he had no more office work that had previously occupied most of his time.
Koznyshev was smart, educated, healthy, active, and did not know where to use all his activities.
Talking in the living rooms, conventions, assemblies, committees, wherever he could speak, took part in his time; but he, a longtime urban resident, did not allow himself to go into conversation, as his inexperienced brother did when he was in Moscow; there was still much leisure and mental energy left.
For his happiness, this is the most difficult time for him, due to the failure of his book, to replace the questions of the unbelievers, American friends, the Samaritan famine, the exhibitions, the spiritism, the Slavic question, which had previously only been corrupted in society, and Sergei Ivanovic, who had previously been one of the agents of the issue, all gave up to him.
Among the people to whom Koznyshev belonged, there was no other talk or writing about the Slavic issue and the Serbian war.
Anything that is done normally by an idle crowd, killing time, has now been done in favour of the Slavs. Balls, concerts, lunches, matches, ladies' dresses, beer, tracts -- everything was a sign of sympathy for the Slavs.
With many of the things that were said and written on this occasion, Koznyshev did not agree with the details.
He saw that the Slavic question had become one of those fashionable passions that always, by changing one another, served society as a subject of study; he also saw that there were many people with selfish, vain goals. I've been working on this case.
He acknowledged that the newspapers had printed a lot of unnecessary and exaggerated newspapers, with the one aim of drawing attention to themselves and yelling at others.
He saw that, with the general rise of society, all those who failed and were hurt were louder than others: commanders without armies, ministers without ministries, journalists without magazines, party leaders without guerrillas.
He saw that there was a lot of nonsense and funny, but he saw and acknowledged the unmistakable, ever-growing enthusiasm that brought together all classes of society that could not but be empathetic.
The massacre of the fellow believers and the Slav brothers caused compassion for the suffering and anger for the oppressors.
And the heroism of Serbs and Montenegrins fighting for a great cause has given rise to a desire throughout the people to help their brothers, not by word, but by deed.
But there was another joy for Sergei Ivanovic: it was an expression of public opinion.
Society has definitely expressed its wish.
The people's soul received an expression, as Koznyshev said.
And the more he dealt with this case, the more obvious it seemed to him that it was a case that needed to be big enough to form an era.
He dedicated himself to this great work and forgot to think about his book.
He was now busy all the time, so he failed to respond to all the letters and demands addressed to him.
After working all spring and part of the summer, he was not ready to go to his brother's village until July.
He was on his way to rest for two weeks and to the most holy people, in the countryside, to enjoy the view of the rise of the people's spirit, in which he and all the people of the capital and the city were fully convinced.
Katavasov, who had long planned to fulfill Levin's promise to visit him, went with him.
As soon as Koznyshev and Katavasov arrived at the particularly busy station of the Kursk Railway, they came out of the carriage and inspected the back of the footman &apos; s suitcase, as well as the volunteers on four carts.
The ladies with the bouquets met them and, accompanied by the crowd behind them, entered the station.
One of the women who met the volunteers, leaving the room, approached Sergei Ivanovich.
'Are you here to escort me, too?' 'She asked in French.
'No, I'm on my own, Princess. Rest with my brother.
Do you always walk? 'A little smile,' said Koznyshev.
'You can't do that! 'The Princess answered. 'Is it true that eight hundred have already been sent from us?
Malvinsky didn't believe me.
'About 800. If more than a thousand people were not sent directly from Moscow, he said.
'There you go.
That's what I said!--happy catch the lady. 'And it is true that about a million have been donated now, isn't it?
'A lot more, Princess.'
'What is the current telegram?'
They smashed the Turks again.
'Yes, I've read it,' replied Sergei Ivanovic.
They spoke of the last telegram, which confirmed that the Turks had been smashed at all points for three days and had fled, and that a decisive battle was expected tomorrow.
'Oh, yeah, you know, one young man, beautiful, asked for it.
I don't know why they made it difficult.
I wanted to ask you, I know him, please write a note.
It's from Countess Lydia Ivanovna.
Inquiring about the details that the Princess knew about the young man being asked, Sergei Ivanovich wrote a note to the one on whom it was dependent and handed it to the Princess.
'You know, Count Wronsky, famous... is driving this train,' said the Princess with a triumphant and meaningful smile, when he found her again and gave her a note.
'I heard he was coming, but I didn't know when.
With this train?
'I saw him.
He's here; one mother escorts him.
That's the best he could do.
'Oh, yes, of course.
While they were talking, the crowd swam past them to the dining table.
They also moved and heard the loud voice of a gentleman who spoke to the volunteers with a glass in his hand. "To serve for faith, for humanity, for our brothers," said the lord, raising his voice. 'The great work blesses you, Mother of Moscow.
It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. 'Woe and tears,' he concluded.
Everybody screamed liveo! And a new crowd swam into the room and almost knocked down the Princess's feet.
'Ah! Princess, what's it like? 'Great smile,' said Stepan Arkadić, suddenly appearing in the middle of the crowd. 'Didn't he say warm?'
Bravo!
And Sergei Ivanovich!
You would say this from yourself -- a few words, you know, encouragement; you are so good,' he added with a gentle, respectful and careful smile, a little by the hand of Koznyshev.
'No, I'm going now.
'Where to?
'To the village, to his brother,' said Koznyshev.
'So you will see my wife.' I wrote to her, but you'll see; please tell me that I was seen and that all right.
She'll understand.
However, tell her, would you be so kind as to appoint me as a member of the joint commission...
Well, she'll understand!
You know, les petites misseres de la vie humaine -- as if apologizing, he turned to the Princess. 'And soft, not Lisa, but Bibish, who sends a thousand guns and twelve sisters.'
Did I tell you?
'Yes, I heard,' answered Koznyshev reluctantly.
'It is a pity that you are leaving,' said Stepan Arkadić. 'Tomorrow we give lunch to two departureers -- Dimer-Bartnyansky from Petersburg and our Veselovsky, Grisha.
They're both coming.
Veselovsky recently got married.
Good for you!
Isn't that right, Princess? 'He turned to the lady.'
The Princess, without answering, looked at Koznyshev.
But the fact that Sergei Ivanovic and the Princess, as if they wanted to get rid of him, did not in any way embarrass Stepan Arkadych.
He smiled and looked at the Princess's feather, and he looked on the sides like he was remembering something.
When he saw the lady with the mug, he called her and put in a five - chunk piece of paper.
'I cannot see these mugs calmly as long as I have the money,' he said. 'What is the current problem?'
Good for the Montenegrins!
'What are you saying!' he cried when the Princess told him he was going on that train.
For a moment, Stepan Arkadyić &apos; s face expressed sadness, but a moment later, when he entered the room where Vronsky was, a moment later, when he slightly depressed his sister &apos; s body and saw only a hero and an old friend in Vronsk.
'With all his faults, you must not fail to give him justice,' said Princess Sergei Ivanovich, as soon as Oblonsky withdrew from them. 'That's exactly the Russian, the Slavic nature!
Only I'm afraid it's gonna hurt to see him.
Whatever you say, I'm touched by the fate of this man.
Talk to him dearly,' said the Princess.
'Yes, maybe if I have to.'
'I never loved him.
But it buys a lot.
He's not only on his own, but he's keeping the squadron to himself.
'Yes, I heard.
I heard a call.
Everyone's pushed to the door.
'Here he is!' said the Princess, pointing to him, in a long coat and in a black with broad fields of a hat coming under her arm with her mother.
The Oblonian was walking beside him, something lively to say.
When he frowned, he looked before him as if he had not heard what Stepan Arkadych had said.
Perhaps, at Oblonski's direction, he looked back in the direction where the Princess and Sergei Ivanovic stood and raised his hat silently.
His older and suffering face seemed fossilized.
When he reached the platform, he left his mother, silently, and fled to the train station.
God gave up on the platform, keep the king, and then yell: Yay! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
One of the volunteers, a tall, very young man, fell into his boobs, especially bowing over his head with a wobbly hat and a bouquet.
He was followed by two officers and an elderly man with a big beard, bowing in his lap.
After saying goodbye to the Princess, Sergei Ivanovic, along with Katavasov, came into a bus full of cars, and the train was moved.
At the Caesarian station, the train was met by a slender choir of young people singing, "Thank you."
Once again, the volunteers bowed and leaned, but Koznyshev ignored them; he had so many dealings with the volunteers that he already knew their common type, and that was not of interest to him.
Katavasov, on the other hand, had no experience in observing volunteers, was very interested in them and questioned Sergei Ivanovich about them.
Koznyshev advised him to go to second grade to talk to them himself.
At the next station, Katavasov complied with this advice.
At the first stop, he moved to second grade and met volunteers.
They sat in the corner of the wagon, talking loudly and apparently knowing that the attention of the passengers and Katavasov had been drawn to them.
The young man spoke louder than anyone.
He was obviously drunk and he was telling me about some story that happened in their establishment.
An officer in the Austrian military fife of the guard's uniform was sitting in front of him.
He smiled and listened to the storyteller and stopped him.
The third one, in an artillery uniform, sat on a suitcase next to them.
The fourth one was asleep.
In a conversation with the young men, Katavasov learned that he was a wealthy Moscow merchant who ran a large fortune until he was twenty - two years old.
He did not like Katavasov because he was wearied, spoiled, and ill; he was apparently convinced, especially now, that he was doing a hero thing and boasted in the most unpleasant way.
Another retired officer also made an unpleasant impression on Katavasov.
It was obviously the man who tried everything.
He was both on the railway, and on the manager, and he started the factories himself, and he spoke of everything, without need or need, by using the words of scientists.
The third, artilleryist, on the other hand, was very fond of Katavasov.
It was a modest, quiet man who clearly bowed to the knowledge of a retired guard and to the heroic sacrifice of a merchant, and who did not speak of himself.
When Katavasov asked him what motivated him to go to Serbia, he humbled himself:
'Well, everyone's on their way.
We need to help the Serbs, too.
Too bad.
'Yes, especially your artilleryists, there are few,' said Katavasov.
'Cause I was in the artillery for a short time; maybe they'll be in the infantry or cavalry.
'How is infantry when artillery players are most needed?' 'Katawasov said, thinking for years that he should be in a significant position.
'I didn't serve much in artillery, I was a retired junior,' he said, and began to explain why he couldn't pass the exam.
All of this made an unpleasant impression on Katavasova together, and when the volunteers went out to the station for a drink, Katavasov wanted to believe that he had a bad impression.
One passing old man in a military coat listened to Katavasov's conversation with volunteers all the time, leaving him alone, Katavasov turned to him.
'Yes, the diversity of the provisions of all these people going there,' said Katavasov in an uncertain manner, seeking to express their views and, at the same time, to learn the views of the old man.
The old man was a military man who did two campaigns.
He knew what a military man was, and by the look and conversation of these gentlemen, the way they used to stick to the flask, he thought they were bad military.
In addition, he was a resident of a county town, and he wanted to tell us how a soldier, a drunkard and a thief, had left his town, and no one had taken him to work.
But, in his experience, knowing that, in the current public mood, it was dangerous to express an opinion that was opposed to a common one, and in particular to condemn volunteers, he also looked for Katavasova. 'Well, that's where people are needed. They say Serbian officers aren't good for anything.
'Oh, yes, and these will be lizies,' said Katavasov, laughing with his eyes.
And they talked about the latest military news, and they both covered up their perplexity about who was expected to be fought tomorrow when the Turks, according to the latest news, were broken up at all points.
So, both of them did not express their opinion, and they differed.
Katavasov, who entered his car involuntarily twisting his soul, told Sergei Ivanovich his observations about the volunteers, which showed that they were great guys.
At a large station in the city, again the singing and screaming met the volunteers, and again the assemblers and assemblers came with the mugs, and the ladies of the city brought the bouquet to the volunteers and followed them to the buffet; but it was already much weaker and smaller than it was in Moscow.
During the stop in the city of Paris, Sergei Ivanovic did not go to the buffet, but went back and forth on the platform.
The first time he walked past the office of Vronski, he noticed that the window had been wrapped up.
But another time, he saw an old Countess by the window.
She called Knucklehead.
'Here's the food, I'll walk him to Kursk,' she said.
'Yes, I heard,' said Koznyshev, stopping by her window and looking into it. 'What a beautiful line he has on his part!' he added, noting that he was not in the ward.
'What was he supposed to do after his misfortune?'
'What a terrible event! 'Oh, Koznyshev said.'
'Oh, what I've been through!
Come on in...
Oh, what I've been through! 'She repeated when Koznyshev came in and sat next to her on the couch. 'That can't be imagined!
Six weeks he didn't talk to anyone and only ate when I begged him.
I couldn't leave him alone for a minute.
We took everything he could have killed himself; we lived in the lower floor, but we couldn't have foreseen anything.
'Cause you know he's already fired once because of her,' she said, and the old lady's eyebrows frowned at the memory. 'Yes, she came, just like a woman like that was supposed to come.'
Even death, she chose a sneaky, low one.
'It is not for us to judge, Countess,' said Sergei Ivanovic with a sigh, 'but I understand how hard it was for you.
'Oh, don't tell me!
I lived in my name, and I had it.
They're bringing you a note.
He wrote the answer and sent it away.
We didn't know she was at the station right away.
Tonight, I just went to my place, and my Mary tells me that at the station, the lady threw herself in front of the train.
I've been hit by something! I realized it was her.
The first thing I said was not to tell him.
But they already told him.
The pitcher was there, and he saw everything.
When I ran into his room, he wasn't his own -- it was scary to look at him.
He didn't say a word and went there.
I don't know what it was, but he was brought as a dead man.
I wouldn't recognize him.
"Prostration complete," said the doctor.
Then it was almost rabies. 'Oh, what to say!' said the Countess, waving her hand. 'A terrible time!
No, no matter what you say, you bad woman.
Well, what kind of passion is that?
It's all something special to prove.
So she proved it.
Two fine men, their husband and my poor son, also lost their lives.
'What about her husband? 'Ask Koznyshev.'
'He took her daughter.
Alesha agreed to everything in the first place.
But now he's terribly tormented that he gave a stranger his daughter.
But he can't take the word back.
Karenine came to the funeral. But we tried not to get him to meet Alesha.
It's easier for him, for his husband.
She untied him.
But my poor son gave up all over her.
Dropped everything-- career, me, and then she didn't feel sorry for him yet, and she killed him on purpose.
No, no matter what you say, her death is the gross death of a woman without religion.
Forgive me God, but I can't help hating her memory by looking at her son's death.
'But now how is he?'
'God has helped us -- this Serbian war.
I'm an old man, I don't understand it, but God sent it to him.
Of course, I'm scared as a mother; and most importantly, they say, ce n'est pas tres bien vu a Petersbourg.
But what to do!
One thing could have picked him up.
Yashwin -- his buddy -- he lost everything and went to Serbia.
He stopped by and talked him into it.
It's him now.
Please talk to him, I want to entertain him.
He's so sad.
Yeah, well, he's got a toothache, too.
He'll be very happy to see you.
Please talk to him, he's walking this way.
Koznyshev said he was very happy and moved on to the other side of the train.
In the evening shadow of the slugs on the platform, Wronsky, wearing his long coat and wearing his hat, with his hands in his pockets, walked like a beast in a cage, turning 20 feet fast.
Koznyshev seemed to see him when he approached, but pretended to be invisible.
Sergei Ivanovic didn't care.
He was above all the personal accounts with Vronski.
At that moment, it was in the eyes of Sergei Ivanovich who was an important figure for the great cause, and Koznishev felt obliged to encourage and approve it.
He approached him.
He stopped, looked, learned, and, after taking a few steps towards Sergei Ivanovic, shook his hand firmly.
'Maybe you didn't want to see me,' said Sergei Ivanovic, 'but can I help you?
'I can't be as uncomfortable with anyone as I am with you,' he said. 'Excuse me.
I'm not happy in my life.
'I understand and wanted to offer you my services,' said Koznyshev, looking at the obvious suffering face of Vronski. 'Do you need a letter to Ristic, Milan?
'Oh, no! 'It was as if it were hard to understand,' said Vronsky. 'If you don't care, you'll walk.
There's such a spirit in the cars.
A letter?
No, thank you; no recommendation is needed to die.
Some for the Turks...' he said, smiling with one mouth.
The eyes continued to have an angry and painful expression.
'Yes, but it may be easier for you to get in touch with someone who is prepared.'
Whatever you want.
I'm very glad to hear about your decision.
And so many attacks on volunteers that a man like you raises them in public opinion.
'I am, as a man,' he said, 'and it is good that life is worth nothing to me. And that the physical energy in me is enough to get into the karya and smudge or lie down -- I know that.
I'm glad there's something to give my life, which I don't want, but I'm ashamed of.
Someone's gonna need it. 'And he made the impatience of the movement of the cheekbone with the constant, painful tooth, which prevented him even from speaking with the expression with which he wanted.
'You will be reborn, I predict to you,' said Koznyshev, feeling touched. 'The removal of their brothers from the yoke is a goal worthy of death and life.
Give you the god of success of the outside -- and of the inner world -- he added and extended his hand.
Wronsky held a firm hold on Sergei Ivanovich &apos; s hand.
'Yes, as a weapon, I can do anything.
But as a human being, I am a wreck,' he said in a position.
The stinging pain of a strong tooth, filling his mouth with salivation, prevented him from speaking. He shut up, staring at the wheels slowly and smoothly on the tracks of the tender.
And all of a sudden, not the pain, but the general excruciating internal awkwardness made him forget for a moment the pain of his tooth. When looking at the tender and the rails, under the influence of a conversation with a friend whom he did not meet after his misfortune, he suddenly remembered her, that is, what was left of her, when he, like a madman, ran into the railway station barracks: on the table of the barracks, shamelessly stretched in the middle of someone else &apos; s bloodied body, full of a recent life; a leftover head with her heavy ears and curling hair in the temples, and a lovely face, with a half-open ripple mouth, frozen weird, pathetic in the lips, and terrible in the stopped open eyes, an expression, as if to say that scary word -- that he would repent -- that she had told him during the fight.
And he tried to remember her the way she was when he first met her, too, at the station, mysterious, charming, loving, seeking and giving happiness, not the cruel and vindictive that she remembered at the last minute.
He tried to remember the best moments with her, but those moments were always poisoned.
He remembered it only as a triumphant, completed threat to no one in need, but an undisguised repentance.
He stopped feeling toothache, and sobbing distorted his face.
When he had walked in silence two times under the necks and had taken control of himself, he quietly turned to Sergei Ivanovic:
'Did you have any telegrams after yesterday?'
Yeah, it's the third time, but it's gonna be a decisive battle tomorrow.
And when they talked about the proclamation of Milan as King and the enormous consequences that it could have, they split their cars after the second call.
Without knowing when he would be allowed to leave Moscow, Sergei Ivanovic did not telegraph his brother to return for him. Levin was not at home when Katavasov and Sergei Ivanovic, on a tarantasic taken at the station, dusted like an arapy, drove up to the porch of the pavilion house at the twelfth hour of the day.
Kitty, sitting on the balcony with her father and sister, recognized the brother-in-law and ran downstairs to meet him.
'It is no shame for you not to let me know,' she said, giving her hand to Sergei Ivanovich and giving him a forehead.
'We made a good trip and didn't bother you,' said Koznyshev. 'I'm so dusty, I'm afraid to touch.
I was so busy, I didn't know when I was gonna get out.
And you are old-fashioned,' he said, smiling, 'you enjoy quiet happiness beyond currents in your quiet sank.
There's our buddy Fedor Vasilić at last.
'But I am not a nigger, I wash myself,' said Katavasov with his usual humour, giving up his hand and smiling with particularly brilliant teeth because of the black face.
'Kostya will be very pleased.
He's fucked up.
It's time for him to come.
'All is in charge of the housekeeping.'
This is exactly in the sundown,' said Katavasov. 'And we can see nothing in the city except the Serbian war.
Well, how does my buddy feel?
Isn't it human?
'He's so, nothing like everyone else,' replied Kitty, looking a little confusedly at Sergei Ivanovich. 'That's how I'm gonna send for him.
My dad's here.
He just arrived from abroad.
And when she had arranged to send for Levin and to have dusted guests wash themselves, one into the office, the other into the large doll of the room, and for breakfast to the guests, she took advantage of the fast movements she had been deprived of during her pregnancy, and ran to the balcony.
'This is Sergei Ivanovich and Katavasov, Professor,' she said.
'Oh, the heat is heavy! 'The prince said.'
'No, Dad, he's very sweet, and Kostya loves him very much,' said Kitty, begging him for something, smiling at him, covering the expression of ridicule on her father's face.
'I am nothing.'
'You come, sweetheart, to them,' said Kitty to his sister, 'and borrow them.'
They saw Steve at the station, he's healthy.
I'm gonna run to Mitha.
Like in trouble, I haven't fed since the tea.
Now he's awake and he's screaming. 'And when she felt the tide of milk, she took a quick step into the nursery.'
She did not know the difference between her and her child, but she recognized his lack of food by the tide of milk.
She knew he was screaming before she came to the nursery.
And indeed, he was screaming.
She heard his voice and stepped up.
But the sooner she walked, the louder he screamed.
The voice was good, healthy, only hungry and impatient.
'How long has it been, nanny? 'Hurryly said Kitty, sitting on a chair and preparing herself for feeding.' 'Give it to me quickly. Oh, nanny, you're boring, you know, you're gonna tie your cap.
The baby was torn up by a greedy scream.
'You can't, Mother,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna, who was almost always in the nursery. 'We have to clean it up.'
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 'She sang over him, ignoring her mother.
The nanny carried the baby to her mother. Agatha Mikhaylovna followed him with a tender face.
'He knows, he knows.
Believe God, Mother Katerina Alexandrovna, recognize me! 'Screaming Agatha Mikhaylovna's baby.
But Kitty didn't listen to what she said.
Her impatience was as growing as her child's impatience.
With impatience, the matter could not be resolved for a long time.
The baby grabbed the wrong one and got angry.
Finally, after a desperate, suffocating scream, an empty suffocation, the matter was settled, and the mother and child both felt calm and quiet.
'But he too, poor thing, is sweaty,' said Kitty whispering, feeling the child. 'Why do you think he will find out?' 'She added, touching Pluto, as she thought, the baby's eyes staring from under the skull, the equally swollen cheeks, and his pen with the red palm, which he made round motion.'
'No way!
If I did, Kitty would recognize me,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna for approval, and smiled.
She smiled that although she said he couldn't find out, she knew in her heart that not only did he recognize Agatha Mikhaylovna, but that he knew and understood everything, and that he knew and understood a lot more that no one knew and that she, her mother, knew and understood only because of him.
For Agatha Mikhaylovna, for the nanny, for the grandfather, even Mitha had a living creature for his father, requiring only material care; but for his mother, he had long been a moral creature with whom there had already been a whole history of spiritual relations.
'He will wake up, God will give, you will see.'
As soon as I do it, it's gonna shine, love.
It will shine like a bright day,' said Agatha Mikhaylovna.
'Well, well, well, then let's see,' whispered Kitty. 'Now go, he is falling asleep.
Agatha Michailovna went out on the chicks; the nanny let down the store, kicked the flies out of the casket of the crib and the hornet on the window of the frame, and sat down, waving the birch branch over the mother and the child.
'It's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot.
"I wish God had given me rain," she said.
'Yeah, yeah, shh...' answered Kitty with a little bit of a shake and a little bit of a touch, as if a brushed string of puffy hands, with which Mitya was all waving, closing her eyes, opening her eyes.
This pen embarrassed Kitty: she wanted to kiss that pen, but she was afraid to do it so she wouldn't wake up the baby.
The pen finally stopped moving, and the eyes closed.
Only occasionally, while continuing his work, the child, raising his long, bent eyelashes, looked at his mother in the middle of the day with his seemingly black, damp eyes.
The nanny stopped waving and fell asleep.
From upstairs, I heard the voice of the old prince and the laugh of Katavasov.
'That's right, they talked without me,' thought Kitty, 'but it's a shame that Bones isn't here.
That's right, I went back to the beekeeper.
It's sad, though, that he's often there, but I'm glad.
It's entertaining him.
Now he's more fun and better than spring.
'Cause he was so dark and so tormented, I was scared for him.
And how funny he is!" 'She whispered, smiling.'
She knew what was hurting her husband.
It was his disbelief.
Even though if she had been asked if she had thought that he would be destroyed in the Hereafter, she would have agreed that he would be destroyed. His disbelief did not make her regret; and she, who acknowledged that there could be no salvation for an unbeliever, and loved her husband's soul more than anything in the world, thought of his disbelief and said to herself that he was funny.
"Why does he keep reading philosophy for a year? - she thought. 'If this is all written in these books, he can understand them.'
If it's not true, why read it?
He himself says he'd like to believe.
So why doesn't he believe?
Right, because he thinks a lot?
He thinks a lot of privacy.
All one, one.
We can't talk to him.
I think these guests will please him, especially Katavasov.
'He likes to reason with him,' she thought, and immediately moved to a place where Katavasov could sleep, either separately or together with Sergei Ivanov.
And then suddenly she had a thought that made her freak out and even bothered Mith, who took a hard look at her for it.
"The maid doesn't seem to have brought any underwear yet, and for the guests, the bedclothes are all in order.
If not ordered, Agafya Mikhaylovna will provide Sergei Ivanich with stylish underwear, &quot; and with one thought, the blood threw into Kitty &apos; s face.
"Yeah, I'm gonna take care of it," she decided, and when she went back to her old mind, she remembered that something important hadn't been thought out yet, and she remembered that.
"Yes, Kostya is not a believer," she remembered with a smile again.
"Well, you unbeliever!
Let him always be like Madame Stahl or whatever I wanted to be abroad.
No, he won't pretend anymore."
And the recent feature of his kindness was living in front of her.
Two weeks ago, a penetrating letter was received from Stepan Arkadyić to Dolly.
He begged her to save his honor, sell her property to pay his debts.
Dolly was desperate, hated her husband, despised, regretted, decided to divorce, refused, but ended up agreeing to sell part of her property.
Kitty then remembered her husband &apos; s confusion, his repeated awkward approach to his case, and how he finally came up with a single remedy, without insulting her, to help Dolly, offered Kitty to give her a piece of her name, something she had never figured out before.
"What a disbeliever is he?
With his heart, with that fear of hurting someone, even the child!
Anything for others, nothing for yourself.
Sergei Ivanovic believes that it is Kosti &apos; s duty to be his commander. So is the sister.
Now Dolly and the kids are in his custody.
All these men who come to him every day as if he had to serve them."
"Yeah, but be like your father, only like this," she said, passing Mitha to the nanny and touching his cheek with her lip.
From the moment when Levin saw his beloved dying brother for the first time looking at the questions of life and death through what he called them, beliefs that were invisible to him, between twenty and thirty-four years, replaced his childhood and youth beliefs -- he was terrified not so much of death, but of life without the slightest knowledge of where, why, why, and what it was.
The body, the destruction of it, the inexorability of matter, the law of preservation of strength, development -- were the words that replaced his previous faith. These and related concepts were very good for intellectual purposes; but they did not give anything for life, and Levin suddenly felt the position of a man who would trade a warm coat for a kite, and who, for the first time in the cold, would certainly not reason, but would be convinced by his whole being that he was still naked and that he was bound to die painfully.
From that moment on, although not paying attention to himself and still living, Levin continued to feel that fear for his ignorance.
Moreover, he felt vaguely that what he called his beliefs was not only ignorance, but that it was a warehouse of thought in which it was impossible to know what he needed.
In the early days of marriage, the new joys and responsibilities that they have learned have completely muffled these thoughts; but in recent times, after the birth of his wife, when he lived in Moscow without a cause, Levin was increasingly and more and more often, an urgent and pressing question was presented.
The question for him was, "If I do not accept the answers that Christianity gives to the questions of my life, what answers do I accept?"
And there's no way he could find not just any answers in the whole arsenal of his beliefs, but nothing like an answer.
He was in the position of a man looking for food in toy shops and weapons stores.
Involuntarily, unconsciously to himself, he is now in every book, in every conversation, in every person, seeking to deal with these matters and to resolve them.
More than anything else, he was surprised and disappointed by the fact that most people in his circle and age had replaced, like him, previous beliefs with new beliefs, had not seen any trouble in it, and had been perfectly pleased and calm.
So, apart from the main question, Levin had other questions: Are these people sincere? Don't you think they're faking it? Or else, do they understand the answers that science gives to its questions more clearly than it does?
And he carefully studied the views of these people and the books that expressed these answers.
One thing he found since these questions began to occupy him was that he was wrong to assume from the memories of his youthful, university circle that religion was out of time and that it no longer existed.
All the good people in his life believed him. Both the old prince and Lvov, who loved him so much, and Sergei Ivanov, and all the women believed, and his wife believed as he believed in his first childhood, and the ninety-nine hundred Russians, all the people whose life he had received the greatest respect, believed.
Another was that when he read many books, he found that people who shared the same views with him did not mean anything else by them, and that they, without explaining anything, merely denied those questions to which he felt that he could not live, but that they tried to solve completely different questions that were not of interest to him, such as the development of organisms, the mechanical explanation of the soul, etc.
In addition, during the birth of his wife, an extraordinary event occurred with him.
He, a disbeliever, prayed and believed the minute he prayed.
But that moment passed, and he couldn't give that mood any place in his life.
He couldn't admit that he knew the truth at the time, and now he's wrong, because as soon as he started to think about it calmly, everything fell apart; he couldn't even admit that he was wrong at the time, because he valued the mood at the time, and in recognition of his weakness, he would have defiled those moments.
He was in a painful state of dissension with himself, and worked hard to get out of it.
They drowned him and tormented him more and more, but they never left him.
He read and thought, and the more he read and thought, the more he felt for his purpose.
Recently in Moscow and in the village, convinced that he would not find an answer in the materialists, he reread and read back both Plato and Spinoza, and Kant, and Shelling, and Hegel, and Schopengauer, those philosophers who did not actually explain life.
His thoughts seemed fruitful when he either read or made up his own rebuttals against other teachings, especially materialistic ones; but as soon as he read or made up his own questions, the same thing always happened.
By following this definition of vague words, such as spirit, will, freedom, substance, deliberately falling into the trap of words that philosophers or he had set for himself, he began to understand something.
But it was worth forgetting the artificial course of thought and returning from life to what satisfied him when he thought by following this thread -- and all of a sudden this artificial structure collapsed like a house of cards, and it was clear that the building was made out of the same reshuffled words, no matter what was more important in life than the mind.
One time, while reading Chopengauer, he set up his will -- love, and this new philosophy of the day for two, until he was removed from it, comforted him; but it fell down just as he did when he looked at her from life, and turned out to be a kite, unheated dress.
Brother Koznyshev advised him to read the religious writings of Hamyak.
Levin read the second volume of Homjakov's essays and, despite the precipitous polemic, elegant, and witty tone, was struck in them by the teachings of the church.
He was struck at first by the idea that the realization of divine truths was not given to man, but by the combination of people united by love -- the church.
He was encouraged by the idea of how much easier it was to believe in an existing, now living church, comprising all the beliefs of men, with God at the heart and therefore holy and infallible, from it to accept faith in God, creation, fall, redemption, rather than begin with God, distant, mysterious god, creation, etc.
But after reading the history of the Catholic writer's church and the history of the Orthodox writer's church, and seeing that the two churches, which were inherently infallible, denied one another, he was disappointed in the hamjacian teaching about the church, and the building was crushed with the same ashes as philosophical structures.
All this spring, he wasn't his man, and he's been through terrible moments.
"Without knowing what I am and why I'm here, you can't live.
And I can't know, therefore I can't live." Levin said to himself.
"In the infinite time, in the infinity of matter, in the infinite space, an organ bubble is removed, and this bubble will hold and burst, and this bubble is me."
It was a painful lie, but it was the only, final result of centuries of human thought in this direction.
It was the last faith on which all, in all industries, were built to find human thought. It was a ruling conviction, and Levin, out of all the other explanations, as clear, uninvolved, didn't himself know when and how, learned exactly that.
But it wasn't just a lie, it was a cruel mockery of some evil force, an evil, disgusting, and one that could not be obeyed.
I should've gotten rid of that power.
And the salvation was in everyone's hands.
I should have stopped this dependence on evil. And there was one thing -- death.
And, happy family man, a healthy man, Levin was several times so close to suicide that he hid his shoelace so that he would not hang himself on it, and feared to walk with a gun, that he might not shoot himself.
But Levin didn't shoot himself, and he didn't hang himself, and he kept on living.
When Levin thought about what he was and what he was living for, he did not find an answer and came in despair; but when he stopped asking himself about it, it was as if he knew and what he was and what he lived for, because he had acted firmly and definitely and lived; even this lately he had lived a much firmer and more precise life than before.
When he returned to the village in early June, he returned to his usual activities. The country's property, relations with men and neighbors, the household, the affairs of his sister and brother, the relationship with his wife, family, child care, the new bee hunt he was into from this spring, took up all his time.
It was not because he justified them for some common purpose, as he had done in the past; on the contrary, now, on the one hand, disappointed by the failure of the former enterprises for the common good, on the other hand, by being too busy with his thoughts and the very many cases that had come upon him from all sides, he left behind absolutely every thought of the common good, and those cases occupied him only because he felt that he should have done what he had done -- that he could not have done otherwise.
Before (it began almost as a child and grew all the way up) when he tried to do something that would do good for all, for mankind, for Russia, for the whole village, he noticed that the thought of it was pleasant, but the activity itself had always been unconscionable, was not entirely sure what was needed, and the activity itself, which seemed so big at first, diminishing and diminishing, went down; but now that he had been married more and more limited to life for himself, he, although he felt no more joy at thinking about his activities, felt confident that his case was needed, saw it arguing much better than before, and that it was becoming more and more and more.
Now, clearly against his will, he went deeper and deeper into the ground like a plow, so he couldn't get out without turning the rods.
There was no doubt that it was necessary to live a family in the same way that fathers and grandparents were used to living, that is, in the same educational and child - rearing environment.
It was as much to eat as it was to eat when it was hungry; and for it to be as much to cook as it was to drive a hardware machine in Pokrovsk to make a profit.
As much as the debt had to be paid, it was necessary to keep the birthland in such a position that the son, having inherited it, would say the same thanks to his father, as Levin said to his grandfather for all the things he had set up and planted.
And for that to happen, you didn't have to give up the land, but you had to keep the land, you had to keep the livestock, you had to drive the fields, you had to plant the woods.
You couldn't help but do the work of Sergei Ivanovich, the sister, all the men who followed the advice and got used to it, and you can't leave the child you're holding in your arms.
We had to take care of the comforts of the guest sister - in - law with the children and the wife with the child, and we couldn't help but be with them a little bit of the day.
And all of this, along with the game hunt and the new bee hunt, filled Levin's entire life, which made no sense to him when he thought.
But aside from the fact that Levin firmly knew what he had to do, he knew just as well how he had to do all this and what matter was more important than another.
He knew that hiring workers should have been as cheap as possible; but taking them into bondage, giving them money ahead, wasn't cheaper than they were, even though it was very profitable.
It was possible to sell straw to men without food, though they felt sorry for them; but the stable court and the drinking house, even though they had provided income, had to be destroyed.
The logging of the forests had to be collected as strictly as possible, but it was not possible to take fines for the slaughtered cattle, and although it upset the guards and destroyed fear, it was impossible not to let go of the trampled cattle.
Peter, who paid the loan shark ten percent a month, needed to borrow to buy him out; but it was not possible to let down and delay the bond to non-payer men.
It was not possible to miss the orderr that the puddle had not been cut and the grass had been lost for nothing; but it was not possible to mow the 80 tithes on which the young forest had been planted.
You couldn't forgive an employee who had gone home to work because his father had died, no matter how pathetic he was, and you should've counted him cheaper in the months he spent away; but you shouldn't have given a month's worth to an old man who didn't need a yard.
Levin also knew that when he returned home, the first thing to do was to go to his wife, who had been unwell; and the men who had waited for him for three hours could wait; and he knew that, despite all the pleasure they enjoyed in planting the pond, he had to lose that pleasure and, by allowing the old man to plant his horn without himself, to go and interpret with the men who found him on the bees.
Well, if he did wrong, he didn't know, and not only would he not prove it now, but he avoided talking and thinking about it.
His reasoning cast doubt on him and prevented him from seeing what he should and should not see.
When he did not think but lived, he continued to feel in his heart the presence of an infallible judge, who decided, who out of two possible actions was better and worse; and as soon as he did wrong, he immediately felt it.
Thus he lived without knowing or seeing the possibility of knowing what he was and what he was for, and tormented by this ignorance to the extent that he feared suicide, while at the same time firmly paving his own special, certain path in life.
On the day Koznyshev came to Pokrovsky, Levin was in one of his most painful days.
There was the most hasty working time in which the people as a whole are exposed to such extraordinary self-sacrifice in labour as is not evident in any other living environment, and which would have been appreciated if the people who display these qualities had valued them themselves, had it not been repeated every year and had the consequences not been so simple.
Squeeze and squeeze the groves and oats and carry them, mow the meadows, move the steam, melt the seeds and sow the winter -- it all seems simple and ordinary; and in order to do all this, all the village people must work from old to small, not three or four weeks longer than usual, feeding on kvass, onions and black bread, hammering and taking sleep at night and giving up sleep for not more than two or three hours a day.
And every year, it's done all over Russia.
Having lived most of his life in the village and in close association with the people, Levin always felt, during the working hours, that this general popular excitement was communicated to him as well.
In the morning, he drove to the first crop of rye, on an oatmeal that had been taken to the scords, and when he returned to his wife and sister-in-law's house, he drank coffee with them and walked to the shrub, where he was supposed to launch a newly installed seed mill.
All day long, this Levin, talking to the orderman and the men and the house, talking to the wife, to Dolly, to her children, to her father-in-law, thought of one and one thing that occupied him at that time, in addition to his economic concerns, and kept looking at his question: "What am I? Where am I? And why am I here?"
Standing in the cooler of a newly covered riga with a still smelly leaf of hazelnut bars pressed against the freshly hamstrung oxen lags of the straw roof, Levin looked through the open gate, in which the dry and bitter dust of the moth was pushed and played, at the hot sun-lit gumna grass and the fresh straw that had just been made out of the barn, at the peatheads of the blubber, with the whistles flying under the roof, and the whistled wings that had stopped in the opening of the gate, at the people who were crucified in the dark and dusty rigars, and thought strange thoughts.
"Why are you doing this? 'He thought.' 'Why am I standing here making them work?
What are they all working on and trying to show me what they're trying to do?
What's that old woman Matrena beating out of, my friend? (I treated her when a math fell on her in the fire),' he thought, looking at the skinny woman, who was moving the grain and walking hard with her black-burned bare feet on a rough, hard current. 'Then she recovered; but not today-tomorrow, ten years from now, she will be buried, and there will be nothing left of her or of that slut in the red pane, which is so smooth and gentle that it beats out of the meakina ear.
And she's going to be buried, and the phoego merina of this bloated nostrils is a horse crossing a lean wheel from beneath it. 'And it will be buried, and Fedora will be buried with his curly beard full of flesh and a white shoulder shirt.'
And he's tearing up his snoops, and he's in charge, and he's yelling at the women, and he's moving fast, and he's fixing the belt on the wave wheel.
And most importantly, it's not just them, but I'm gonna be buried, and there's nothing left.
Why?"
He thought it, and at the same time he looked at the clock to figure out how much they'd put in an hour.
He needed to know that in order to learn a lesson for the day.
"It's about an hour before the third cop starts," thought Levin, approached the pitcher, and screaming at the sound of the car, told him to let him out less often.
'You serve a lot, Fedor!
You see, it's locked, it's not a bet.
Fix it! — Psalm 37: 1.
Black from sweaty dust Fedor screamed back, but it wasn't the way Levin wanted it to be.
Levin went up to the drum and suspended Fedor and began serving himself.
After working until lunch for a man who wasn't long away, he and the pitcher came out of the riga and had a conversation with him, standing by for neat yellow scord seeds with hot rye.
The pitcher was from a far - away village from the one where Levin had previously given the land to the gunpowder.
Now she's been given to the janitor of the house.
Levin spoke to the pitcher Fedor about the land and asked if Plato, a rich and good man of the same village, would take the land next year.
'The cost of the road, Plato can't help, Konstantin Dmitrich,' answered the man, choosing the corn from the sweaty bosom.
'How does Cyril help?'
'Mityuhe (so contemptiblely called the janitor's man), Konstantin Dmitrich, how can we not help!
This one's gonna press, and he's gonna pick his.
He won't regret it.
And Uncle Fokanyc (so he called Platon's old man) isn't gonna rip a man's skin off? Where he owes it, where he'll pay it.
An isn't gonna make it. Same person.
'Why would he come down?'
'Yeah, so people are different; one person lives for his own sake, even if Mithukha, only fills his belly, and Focanich is a true old man.'
He lives for the soul. God remembers.
'How does God remember?
How does the soul live? 'About to scream Levin.'
'It is known as, in truth, in God's way.
Because people are different.
Here, at least take you, don't hurt a man either...
'Yes, yes, good-bye!' said Levin, suffocating, and turning around, took his stick and quickly went away to the house.
Levin received a new joyous feeling. In a man's words, Focanich lives for the soul, truly, God for God's sake, vague, but significant thoughts in the crowd, as if they had broken out of some sort of lock-in and, in pursuit of one goal, were all wrapped up in his head, blinding him with their light.
Levin took great steps along the great road, listening not so much to his thoughts (he could not yet dissect them), but to the mental state that he had never experienced before.
The words spoken by the man created an electric spark in his soul that suddenly transformed and united into a whole bunch of scattered, powerless individual thoughts that never ceased to occupy him.
Even when he was talking about giving up the land, his thoughts were invisible to him.
He felt something new in his soul, and with pleasure felt it new, not knowing what it was.
"It's not for your own needs to live, it's for God. For what god?
For God's sake.
And what is more pointless than what he said?
He said that you don't have to live for your needs, that you don't have to live for what we understand, what we want, what we want, and you have to live for something we don't understand, for a god no one can tell.
What's that?
Didn't I understand the pointless words of Fedor?
Did you understand their justice? Did you find them stupid, unclear, inaccurate?
No, I understood it, and I understood it exactly as he understood it, and I understood it more clearly than I understand anything in my life, and I've never doubted it in my life, and I can't think about it.
And it's not me alone, it's everyone, the whole world understands it, and there's one thing they don't doubt and they always agree.
Fedor says Kirillov, the janitor, lives for his belly.
That's understandable and reasonable.
We're all like intelligent beings, we can't live like a belly.
And suddenly, the same Fedor says it's bad for the belly, and you have to live for the truth, for God's sake, and I get it!
And me and the millions of people who lived centuries ago and who live now, the men, the poor and the wise, who thought and wrote about it with their vague language, say the same thing -- we all agree on the same thing: what needs to live and what is good.
I have only one solid, unmistakable and clear knowledge with all people, and knowledge cannot be explained by reason -- it is outside it and has no reason and can have no consequences.
If good has a reason, it is no longer good; if it has a consequence, it is not good.
So good is out of the chain of causes and effects.
And I know him, and we all know him.
And I was looking for miracles, and I wish I'd seen a miracle that convinced me.
But it's a miracle, the only thing that ever exists, on all sides that surrounds me, and I didn't notice it!
What miracle could be greater than that?
Have I found a solution to everything, that now my suffering has come to an end?" 'I thought Levin, walking on the dusty road, seeing neither heat nor fatigue, and feeling satisfied with long suffering.'
The feeling was so happy that it seemed unbelievable to him.
He was suffocating with excitement and, unable to move on, went off the road into the woods and sat in the shadow of the donkey on an unspoiled grass.
He took his hat off his sweaty head and lied on his hand, on a juicy, puffy forest grass.
"Yeah, you have to remember and think about it," he thought, looking closely at the herb that was in front of him, and watching the movement of the green bug that was climbing the stem of the burrow and held in its rise by the leaf of the dream. 'All at first,' he said to himself, turning the leaf of the dream so that it would not interfere with the bug, and nailing the other grass to make the bug pass on to it. 'What makes me happy?
What did I discover?
I used to say that in my body, in the body of this herb and this bug (when she didn't want that grass, spread her wings, and flew away) there was a physical, chemical, physiological exchange of matter.
And in all of us, with the donkeys, with the clouds, with the fog spots, there is development.
Development out of what? What?
Infinite development and struggle?...
There could be some kind of direction and a struggle in the infinite!
And I was surprised that, despite the greatest stress of my mind on this path, I still didn't get the meaning of life, the meaning of my motives and my aspirations.
And the point of my motives in me is so clear that I live on it all the time, and I was surprised and happy when the man told me to live for God, for the soul.
I didn't open anything.
I just found out what I know.
I understood the power that didn't come from one past that gave me life, but now it gives me life.
I'm free from deception, I recognize the master."
And he briefly repeated to himself the full course of his thoughts over the past two years, the beginning of which was a clear, obvious thought of dying when he saw a beloved, hopelessly ill brother.
The first time he realized that for every human being and for him there was nothing but suffering, death and eternal oblivion, he decided that it was impossible to live, that it was necessary either to explain his life in such a way that it did not appear to be the evil ridicule of some devil, or to shoot himself.
But he did not do both, but kept on living, thinking, and feeling, and even at the same time he got married and enjoyed a lot of joy and was happy when he did not think about the meaning of his life.
What was that supposed to mean?
It meant he lived well, but he didn't think well.
He lived (unknowing) with the spiritual truths that he sucked up with milk, thinking not only that he did not acknowledge those truths, but that he did not do anything about them.
It was now clear to him that he could only live because of the beliefs in which he was raised.
"Why would I be like this and live my life if I didn't have those beliefs, didn't know I had to live for God, not for my own needs?
I'd rob, lie, kill.
Nothing that represents the greatest joys of my life would exist for me."
And in making the greatest effort of imagination, he still couldn't have imagined the beast that he himself would have been if he hadn't known what he was living for.
"I was looking for an answer to my question.
And the answer to my question could not give me the thought -- it is not commensurate with the question.
The answer was life itself, in my knowledge of what was good and what was wrong.
And the knowledge I acquired was nothing, but it was given to me, together with all of them, because I could not take it from anywhere.
Where did I get this?
In my mind, have I come to love my neighbor and not strangle him?
I was told that when I was a kid, and I was happy to believe it because I was told what was in my heart.
Who opened this?
Not the mind.
The mind has opened up a struggle for existence and a law that requires it to strangle all those who stand in the way of satisfying my wishes.
It's the conclusion of the mind.
And to love another, he couldn't open his mind because it was unreasonable."
"Yes, pride," he said to himself, falling over his abdomen and beginning to tie herbs with a knot, trying not to break them.
"And not just the pride of the mind, but the stupidity of the mind.
And most of all, it's nonsense, it's the ludicrousness of the mind.
It is the fraud of the mind," he repeated.
Levin was reminded of the recent scene with Dolly and her children.
The children, alone, started roasting raspberry on candles and pouring milk fountains into their mouths.
The mother, having forced them into action, began to tell them at Levin how hard it was for them to destroy what they were doing, and that the work was being done for them, that if they beat cups, they would have nothing to drink, and if they were to pour milk, they would have nothing to eat, and they would starve to death.
Levin was struck by the calm, depressing mistrust with which the children listened to the mother's words.
They were only upset that their game of entertainment had stopped, and they did not believe a word that their mother had said.
They couldn't believe it because they couldn't imagine the full extent of what they were using, so they couldn't imagine that what they were destroying was what they were living.
'It's all in itself,' they thought, 'and there's nothing interesting and important about it, because it's always been and always will be.
It's always the same.
We don't have anything to think about, it's ready, and we want to come up with something new and new.
So we made up our mind to put the raspberry in a cup and fry it on a candle and pour the milk into each other's mouth with a fountain.
It's fun and new and nothing worse than drinking out of cups."
"Isn't that what we're doing, doing with my mind, finding out the meaning of nature's forces and the meaning of human life?" 'He kept thinking.'
"Isn't that what all theories of philosophy do, through thought, strange, uninhabitable to man, leading him to know what he's known for a long time, and so it's true that he couldn't have lived without it?
Isn't it clear from the evolution of every philosopher's theory that he knows as much ahead as Fedor's man, and that he's no clearer than he is, the main meaning of life, and only the questionable mental way he wants to go back to what everyone knows?
Let's just let some kids eat, make dishes, soak up milk, etc.
Would they be naughty?
They'd starve to death.
Come on, let us in with our passions, our thoughts, our One God and our Creator! Or no idea what good is, no explanation for the evil of morality.
If you don't think about it, build something!
We only destroy because we are spiritually full.
It's the kids!
Why do I have a joyous, shared knowledge with a man, one of which gives me peace of mind?
Where did I get this?
I, raised in the notion of God, a Christian, have filled my whole life with the spiritual benefits that Christianity has given me, full of all and living of these benefits, as children, without understanding them, I destroy, that is, I want to destroy what I live.
And as soon as an important moment of life comes, like children, when they're cold and hungry, I go to him, and even less than the children that my mother blames for their childish pranks, I feel that my children's fat attempts don't read to me.
Yeah, what I know, I don't know with reason, which is given to me, revealed to me, and I know it with my heart, faith in the church's most important confession."
"Church?
Church!" 'Saying again, Levin went to the other side, and turned his back on his hand, and looked away at the flock that was on the other side of the river.
"But can I believe everything the church confesses? 'He thought, testing himself and inventing all that could have destroyed his current calm.'
He deliberately remembered the teachings of the church that had always seemed strange to him and seduced him. 'Creature?
What did I do to explain existence?
Existence?
Nothing? 'The Devil and Sin?' 'And what do I explain evil?'
The Redeemer?
But I don't know anything, I don't know anything, and I can't know just what I'm told with everyone."
And he now felt that there was none of the church's beliefs that would violate the most important thing: belief in God, in good as the sole purpose of man.
Each faith of the church could be based on faith in the service of truth instead of need.
And not only did everyone fail to do so, but it was necessary to do the most important miracle, which is constantly manifesting on earth, that everyone, along with millions of the most diverse people, wise and devious, children and the elderly -- with everyone, with a man, with a Lvov, with Kitty, with beggars and kings -- be able to understand the same thing and make the life of the soul for which one is worth living and for which one we value.
Lying on his back, he now looked at the high, cloudless sky.
"Don't I know that this is an infinite space and that it is not a circle?
But as much as I sneak around and harden my eyesight, I can't see it round and round, and despite my knowledge of infinite space, I'm certainly right when I see a solid blue wall, I'm more right than when I try to see it."
Levin stopped thinking, and only as if he listened to mysterious voices, something happy and anxious to talk to one another.
"Is that faith? 'He thought, fearing to believe his happiness.' 'Oh, my God, thank you!' 'He spoke, swallowing up the crying, and wiped with both hands the tears that were full of his eyes.'
Levin looked before him, and saw the flock, and then saw his raven cart, and the crow, who came up to the flock and spoke to the shepherd; then he heard from him the sound of the wheels and the curling of a fat horse; but he was so consumed with his thoughts that he did not think about why he was going to him.
He only remembered it when the coachman, when he was on his way to him, called him.
'The lady has been sent.
There's a brother here and some other baron.
Levin sat in the cart and took the lead.
As if when he had woken up from sleep, Levin could not remember for long.
He looked around the fat horse, washed between his legs and on the neck, where the leash was rubbing, looked around Ivan, who sat next to him, and remembered that he was waiting for his brother, that his wife was probably worried about his long absence, and tried to guess who was the guest who came with his brother.
Both a brother and a wife and an unknown guest were now presented to him differently than before.
He felt that his relationship with all people would be different now.
"There will no longer be with my brother the isolation that has always been between us: there will be no dispute; there will never be an argument with Kitty; with a guest, whoever he is, he will be sweet and kind; with people, with Ivan, everything will be different."
Detaining a good horse from impatience and begging for a move on tight leaders, Levin looked back at Ivan, who sat by himself, who did not know what to do with his unworked hands, and who constantly pressed his shirt, and sought an excuse to start a conversation with him.
He wanted to say that Ivan had put too much pressure on the village for nothing, but it was like reproach, and he wanted to have a love conversation. He didn't think of anything else.
'You may take the stump to the right, or you may take the stump,' said the coachman, adjusting for the driving of Levin.
'Please don't touch me or teach me!' said Levin, angry with the cougher's intervention.
Just as he always did, his intervention would be annoying, and immediately he felt sad as he mistakenly thought that the mood might change him immediately in contact with reality.
Without reaching a quarter of a wool from the house, Levin saw those running toward Grisha and Tanya.
'Uncle Kostya!
And Mom goes, and Grandpa and Sergei Ivanovich and someone else,' they said, climbing on the cart.
'Who is it?
'Awful scary!
And that's what she does with her hands,' said Tanya, climbing up in the cart and mocking Katavasova.
'Aren't you old or young? 'Laughing,' said Levin, to whom Tanya's performance reminded someone.
"Oh, don't be a nasty man!" 'I thought Levin.'
It was only by turning the road and by seeing those who were walking towards it that Levin recognized Katavasov in a straw hat that walked, just as twirling with his hands as Tanya represented.
Katavasov was very fond of talking about philosophy, having a notion of philosophy from naturalists who had never studied philosophy; and Levin recently argued with it in Moscow.
And one such conversation, in which Katavasov apparently thought he had won, was the first thing Levin remembered when he recognized him.
"No, I'm not gonna argue and say my thoughts lightly," he thought.
When Levin came out of the cart and said hello to his brother and Katavasov, he asked about his wife.
'She carried Matthew to Kolok (it was a forest near the house).
I wanted to get him there, or it was hot in the house,' said Dolly.
Levin always advised his wife to carry a child in the woods, finding it dangerous, and the news was unpleasant to him.
'He is carrying him from place to place,' said the prince, smiling. 'I advised her to try to tear it down on the glacier.
'She wanted to come to the beekeeper.
She thought you were there.
We're going there,' said Dolly.
'Well, what are you doing? 'Oh, Koznyshev said, standing back and standing up to his brother.'
'No big deal.'
As always, I am engaged in the business,' answered Levin. 'How long are you going to be?'
We've waited so long.
'Two weeks off.
There's a lot to do in Moscow.
With these words, the eyes of the brothers met, and Levin, despite his constant and now particularly strong desire to be in friendly and, heads--but, a simple relationship with his brother, felt uncomfortable looking at him.
He looked down and didn't know what to say.
By selecting subjects such as would please Sergei Ivanovic and distract him from the conversation about the Serbian war and the Slavic Wop-dew, about which he referred to activities in Moscow, Levin spoke about the book of Sergei Ivanovic.
'Are there any reviews of your book?' 'He asked.'
Sergei Ivanovic smiled at the deliberateness of the question.
'No one is doing it, and I am the least of the others,' he said. 'Look, Daria Alexandrovna, it will rain,' he added, pointing an umbrella to the oxen of white clouds above the tops.
And it was enough that it was not hostile, but the cold attitude toward one another that Levin so wanted to avoid was again established between the brothers.
Levin approached Katavasov.
'How well you did that you wanted to come,' he said.
'I've been going on a long time.
Now we're gonna talk, we're gonna see.
Did you read Spencer?
'No, I'm not finished,' said Levin. 'I don't need it now, though.
'How so?
That's interesting.
Why?
'In other words, I have made sure that I will not find a solution to the issues that affect me in him or in him.
Now...
But the calm and hilarious expression of Katavasov's face suddenly struck him, and he felt so sorry for his mood, which he apparently violated by this conversation, that he had stopped after remembering his purpose.
'We'll talk after that, though,' he added. 'If the beekeeper is here on this path,' he turned to everything.
Upon reaching the narrow path to an unscathed field covered on the one side by a full, bright, ivan da maria, which often included the growth of dark green, tall bushes, Levin placed his guests in the thick, fresh shadow of young wasps, on benches and cuts deliberately prepared for bee visitors, afraid of bees, and went to the occipital to bring children and large bread, cucumbers, and fresh honey.
By trying to make as little movement as possible and listening to more and more bees passing by him, he walked down the path to the desert.
The most hay has one bee groaning in its beard, but he carefully sprung it out.
When he entered the shaded hay, he removed his net hanged from the wall, and put it on his pockets, and put his hands in his pockets, and went out to the fenced beekeeper, in which the right rows tied to the pins stood among the shrivelled place, all those he knew, each with its history, the old hives, and on the walls the young ones planted this year.
In front of the bastards, the hives were ripped in the eyes, spinning and ploughing in one place, playing bees and trouts, and among them, in the same direction, in the forest, in the flowering lip and back to the hives, the working bees, with bribes and bribes.
There was a wide variety of sounds in the ears, a busy business, a fast-flying workbee, a trumpeter, a trembling truster, agitated, protective of the enemy's wealth, going to sting the Karaultz bees.
On the other side of the fence, the old man was hard on the hoop and did not see Levin. Levin stopped at the middle of the beekeeper without calling him.
He was happy to be alone to recall the reality that had already brought down his mood in such a way.
He remembered that he had already had time to be angry with Ivan, to show coldness to his brother, and to speak to Katavasov lightly.
"Was it just a moment's mood, and it will pass without leaving a trace?" 'He thought.'
But at the same moment, when he returned to his mood, he was happy to feel that something new and important had happened in him.
The reality only for a while caused the peace of mind that he found; but it was whole in him.
Just as the bees, now hanging around him, threatening him and entertaining him, deprived him of complete physical peace, forced him to compress, avoiding them, so exactly, by walking around him from the moment he sat in the cart, depriving him of his freedom of mind; but it only continued as long as he was among them.
In spite of the bees, his physical strength was intact, and his new spiritual power was intact.
'Do you know, Kostya, who Koznyshev was coming here with?' 'Dolly said, dressing the children with cucumbers and honey.' 'With Vronski!
He's going to Serbia.
'It's not just one, but the squadron's keeping it to himself! 'Katawasov said.'
'It suits him,' said Levin. 'How many more volunteers are there?' 'He added, looking at Sergei Ivanovich.
Koznyshev, without answering, carefully removed a stabbing knife from a cup in which a white hundred honey was lying in the corner of a living honey bee.
'Yes, it is!
You should have seen what was at the station yesterday! 'Catawasov said, calling to eat a cucumber.
'Well, what's that supposed to mean?
For Christ's sake, why don't you tell me, Sergei Ivanovich, where all these volunteers are going, who are they fighting with? 'Ask the old prince, apparently continuing a conversation that began without Levin.'
'With the Turks,' answered Koznyshev, smiling calmly, asking for helplessly moving legs, blackened from the honey bee and sucking it from a knife to a strong donkey leaf.
'But who declared war on the Turks?'
Ivan Ivanich Ragozov and Countess Lydia Ivanovna with Madame Stahl?
'No one has declared war, and people sympathize with the suffering of others and wish to help them,' said Koznyshev.
'But the prince does not speak of help,' said Levin, standing up for the father-in-law, 'but of war.
The Prince says that private people cannot take part in war without the permission of governments.
'Kostya, look, it's a bee!
Right, we're being tempted!' said Dolly, running away from the wasp.
'It's not a bee, it's a wasp,' said Levin.
'Well, what's your theory? 'Speaks with the smile of Katavasov to Levin, clearly calling him to an argument. 'Why do private people not have the right?'
'Yes, my theory is that war, on the one hand, is such an animal, cruel and terrible thing that no man, not a Christian, can personally take responsibility for the outbreak of war, but only a government that is called upon to do so and brought to war inevitably.
On the other hand, and on the basis of science and common sense, in public affairs, especially in the field of war, citizens renounce their personal will.
Sergei Ivanovic and Katavasov raised their objections at the same time.
'That's the thing, Father, that there may be times when the government is not doing the will of the citizens, and then society is declaring its will,' said Katavasov.
But Koznyshev apparently did not approve of this objection.
He frowned at the words of Katavasov, and said another:
'It is in vain that you ask the question.'
It's not a declaration of war, it's just an expression of human, Christian feelings.
They kill brothers, half-brothers, and fellow believers.
Well, let's say not even brothers, not believers, but just children, women, the elderly; the feeling is outraged, and the Russians are running to help stop these horrors.
Imagine that you would walk down the street and see drunks beating a woman or a child; I think you wouldn't ask whether or not a war has been declared against this man, and you would throw yourself at him and protect the offended.
'But I wouldn't,' said Levin.
'No, you would have.
'I don't know.
If I had seen it, I would have given myself my senses directly; but I can't go ahead.
And there is no such immediate feeling of oppression by the Slavs, nor can there be.
'Maybe not for you. But for others it is,' said Koznyshev, whiningly. 'The people are living the traditions of Orthodox people who suffer under the yoke of the wicked Agarians.'
The people heard of the suffering of their brothers and spoke.
'Maybe,' said Levin evasively, 'but I do not see; I myself am a people, I do not feel it.
'Here I am,' said the prince. 'I lived abroad, I read the papers, and I confess I had no idea before the Bulgarian horrors why all the Russians suddenly fell in love with the Slav brothers, and I feel no love for them.'
I was really upset, thinking I was a freak or what Carlsbad was doing to me.
But when I came here, I calmed down -- I see that I'm the only people interested in Russia, not the Slav brothers.
There's Constantin.
'Personal opinions do not mean anything here,' said Sergei Ivanovic, 'it does not matter to personal opinions when all Russia -- the people have expressed their will.
'Excuse me. I don't see it.
The people do not know,' said the prince.
'No, Dad... why not? And Sunday at the church? 'Said Dolly, listening to the conversation. 'Give me a towel, please,' she said to the old man with a smile looking at the children. 'There is no way that everything...'
'What's Sunday in the church?
The priest was told to read.
He read it.
They did not understand anything, sighed, as in all the preaching, &quot; the prince continued. 'Then they were told that they were collecting a life-saving case in the church, so they took a penny out and gave it to them. They don't know what they're doing.
'The people cannot but know; the consciousness of their destinies is always in the people, and at moments like the present, it is discovered to them,' said Koznyshev in the affirmative, looking at the old beekeeper.
A handsome old man with a gray beard and thick silver hair stood still, holding a cup of honey, gentle and calm from his height, staring at the gentlemen, clearly without understanding or wanting to understand.
'It is true,' he said, shaking his head to a great extent.
'Why don't you ask him?'
He knows nothing and thinks nothing,' said Levin. 'Did you hear about the war, Mihailich? 'He turned to him.' 'Is that what they read in the church?
What do you think?
Should we fight for Christians?
'What do we think?'
Alexander Nikolaevich, the emperor, thought about us, he'll think about us in all matters. He's more likely to...
Can I get you some more bread?
Can I get the kid some more? 'He turned to Daria Alexandrovna, pointing to Grisha, who had eaten the crust.
'I do not need to ask,' said Koznyshev, 'we have seen and seen hundreds and hundreds of people who give up everything to serve the right cause come from all sides of Russia and express their thought and purpose directly and clearly.
They bring their coins or they go and tell you why.
What does that mean?
'So I think,' said Levin, who was getting hot, 'that there will always be tens of thousands of people in the 80 million people, not as now, but tens of thousands of people who have lost their public position, who are always ready -- to the Bugachev gang, to Hiva, to Serbia...'
'I'm telling you, it isn't hundreds or people who are insane, but the best of the people! 'Oh, Koznyshev said with such an irritation that he was defending his last possession.' 'And the donations?'
There's a lot of people out there expressing their will.
'This is the word `people' so vaguely,' said Levin. 'Write writer, teachers, and men, one in a thousand, maybe know what's going on.
The other eighty million, like Michailić, not only do not express their will, but they have no idea what they should express their will.
What right do we have to say that this is the will of the people?
An expert in dialectics, Sergei Ivanovic, immediately moved the conversation to another area.
'Yes, if you want to know the spirit of the people in an arithmetical way, it is, of course, very difficult to achieve.'
And the vote has not been imposed on us, nor can it be imposed, because it does not express the will of the people; but there are other ways to do so.
It feels in the air, it feels in the heart.
I do not speak of those underwater currents that have moved in the standing sea of the people, and that are clear to any open-minded man; look at society in a close sense.
All the world's most diverse intellectual parties, so hostile before, have all merged into one.
All the divisions ended, all the public authorities said one and the same thing, everyone sensed a natural force that captured them and carried them in the same direction.
'That's all the newspapers say,' said the prince. 'It's true.
It's all one thing that's definitely frogs in front of the storm.
They're not gonna make me hear anything.
'Frogs, not frogs,' said Koznyshev, speaking to his brother, I don't want to publish or defend newspapers; but I speak of a unified mind in the world of intellectuals.
Levin wanted to answer, but the old prince interrupted him. 'Well, that's another way of thinking,' said the prince. 'Here's my son-in-law, Stepan Arkadić, you know him, he's now getting a seat from the committee committee and something else, I don't remember.
But there's nothing to do -- well, Dolly, it's not a secret! --and 8,000 salaries.
Try and ask him if his service is useful -- he'll prove to you that it's the right thing to do.
And he's a true man, but you can't deny $8,000.
'Yes, he asked to be given the seat of Daria Alexandrovna,' said Koznyshev displeasedly, believing that the prince was speaking inappropriately.
'That's the consensus of the newspapers.
I was told that as soon as the war, they'd double their income.
How can they not believe that the fates of the people and the Slavs... and all this?
'I don't like newspapers for many, but it's not fair,' said Koznyshev.
'I would only make one condition,' continued the prince. 'Alphonse Carr wrote it beautifully before the war with Prussia.
"Do you think war is necessary?
Fine.
Those who preach war -- in a special, forward legion and in the assault, in an attack, in front of everyone!"
'The editors will be good,' said Katavasov, laughing loudly, introducing the editors he knew in this chosen legion.
'Well, they will run away,' said Dolly, 'it will only get in the way.
'And if they run from behind with a cardet or a cossack with a whip,' said the prince.
'It's a joke, and it's not a good joke, excuse me, Prince,' said Koznyshev.
'I don't see it as a joke, it's...' started Levin, but Sergei Ivanovic interrupted him.
'Every member of society is called upon to do his own work,' he said. 'And people of thought are doing their job by expressing public opinion.'
And the unanimity and full expression of public opinion is a credit to the press and yet a joyous phenomenon.
Twenty years ago, we would have been silent, and now the voice of the Russian people is heard, ready to stand up as one man, and willing to sacrifice themselves for the oppressed brothers; it is a great step and a sacrifice of strength.
'But not to sacrifice but to kill the Turks,' said Levin shyly. 'The people are willing and willing to sacrifice for their own souls, not for murder,' he added, uninvolvedly linking the conversation with the thoughts that so occupied them.
'As for the soul?'
It's, you know, a difficult expression for a natural.
What is a soul? 'Smile,' said Katavasov.
'Oh, you know!
'Oh, my God, I have no idea!' said Katavasov, laughing loudly.
'I am not peace, but the sword has brought,' says Christ, 'and for his part he objected, simply as if the most understandable thing, bringing the very place out of the Gospel that had always embarrassed Levin the most.
'That is true,' repeated the old man who stood beside them, responding to a random look at him.
'No, Father, it's broken, it's broken, it's completely broken! 'Funly yelled Katavasov.
Levin was blushing, not because he was broken, but because he couldn't resist and argued.
"No, I can't argue with them," he thought, "they have an impermeable armor, and I'm naked."
He saw that the brother and Katavasov could not be persuaded and even less could agree with them.
What they preached was the pride of the mind that almost destroyed him.
He could not accept that dozens of people, including his brother, had the right, on the basis of what hundreds of Redbaby volunteers had told them in the capitals, to say that they and the newspapers were expressing the will and thought of the people, and the idea of revenge and murder.
He could not accept it because he did not see the expression of those thoughts in the people in whom he lived, nor could he find those thoughts in himself (and he could not think of himself as any other person as one of the people of the Russian people) and, above all, because he did not know with the people, could not know what the common good was, but knew firmly that the attainment of that common good was possible only through the strict implementation of the law of good that was open to everyone and therefore could not wish for war and preach for any common purpose.
He spoke with Michailić and the people who expressed their thoughts in the tradition of calling the barbarians: "Know and possess us.
We are happy to promise total submission.
All the labour, all the humiliation, all the sacrifices we take, but we do not judge and judge."
Now, according to Sergei Ivanovichi, the people have renounced this right, bought at such a high price.
He wanted to say that if public opinion is an infallible judge, why is the revolution, the commune, not as legitimate as the movement in favor of the Slavs?
But all these were thoughts that couldn't solve anything.
One thing you could certainly see was that Sergei Ivanovic was annoying at the moment, and therefore it was bad to argue; and Levin silenced and drew the attention of the guests to the fact that the clouds had gathered and that it was better to go home from the rain.
Prince and Sergei Ivanovich boarded the cart and drove; the rest of the society, accelerating the move, went home on foot.
But the cloud, the white one, the black one, was coming so fast, you had to step up to get home before the rain.
Its foregrounds, low and black, like smoke and soot, clouds ran in the sky with extraordinary speed.
There were two hundred steps to the house, and the wind was rising, and the rain could wait for a second.
Children with scared and happy screaming ran ahead of them.
Daria Alexandrovna, struggling with her skirts, did not walk, but fled without letting the children out of her sight.
Men held their hats and walked in big steps.
They were at the porch itself, as a large drop hit and crushed the edge of the iron gutter.
The kids and the big ones with the fun talk ran into the roof.
'Caterina Alexandrovna? 'I asked Levin of the woman who met them in the front of Agatha Mikhaylovna with headscarves and patches.'
'We thought we were with you,' she said.
'And Mitya?
'In Kolka there must be a nanny with them.
Levin grabbed the patches and fled to Kolok.
In this short period of time, the cloud has already moved so far into the sun that it has become dark as an eclipse.
The wind stubbornly, as if to insist on its own, stopped Levin and, by cutting off leaves and colour with sticks and ugly and bizarrely burning white bitches birch birches, bent all in one direction: acacias, flowers, plows, grass, and tops of trees.
Screaming girls in the garden ran under the roof of a man.
The white curtain of heavy rain has already captured all the distant forest and half the nearby field and moved quickly towards Kolk.
The cheese of the rain, broken into small drops, was heard in the air.
In his head and wrestling with the wind that was tearing out his handkerchiefs, Levin had already run up to Kolk and had seen something blazing behind the oak, as soon as everything had broken out, the whole earth was set on fire, and as if the sky had cracked over his head.
When Levin opened his blind eyes through the thick shade of rain that now separated him from Kolk, he saw with horror the strangely changed position of the green top of a familiar oak in the middle of the forest.
"Did it really break?" 'I could hardly think of Levin, how, with all the speed and speed of motion, the top of the oak hid behind the other trees, and he heard the cracking of the tree falling upon the other trees of the big tree.'
The light of lightning, the sound of thunder, and the feeling of a instantly cold body merged for Levin into one impression of horror.
'Oh, my God!
Oh, my God, not on them! 'He spoke.'
And while he immediately thought about how pointless his request that they not be killed by an oak that had already fallen now was, he repeated it, knowing that he could do nothing better than this senseless prayer.
When he ran to where they used to be, he didn't find them.
They were on the other side of the forest, under the old lip, and they called him.
Two figures in dark dresses (they used to be light), leaning over something.
It was Kitty and the nanny.
The rain had already stopped, and it began to shine when Levin came to them.
The nanny's dress was dry at the bottom, but Katya's dress was soaked and all over her.
Although it was no longer raining, they were still in the same position they were in when the storm broke out. Both stood over a green umbrella cart.
'Are you alive?'
The kisses?
Thank God! 'He spoke, smashing on unscathed water, knocking down the water, full of water with his shoe, and running towards them.'
Kitty's brown and wet face was turned towards him and smiled shyly from under the changed shape of the hat.
'Well, don't be ashamed!
I don't understand how you can be so careless! 'He attacked his wife with displeasure. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;He attacked his wife with shame. &gt;&gt;&gt;
'It's not my fault, for God's sake.
They just wanted to leave, and he was driving around.
I should've changed it.
We just...' started apologizing to Kitty.
Mitha was safe, dry and awake.
'Well, thank God!
I don't know what I'm saying!
They gathered wet diapers; the nanny took out the child and carried it.
Levin went near his wife, guilty of his displeasure, quietly by the nanny, shaking her hand.
In the course of the day, after a wide variety of conversations in which he participated as only one outside side of his mind, Levin, despite the disappointment in the change that should have taken place in him, continued to rejoice in hearing the fullness of his heart.
After the rain, it was too wet to walk; and even the thunderstorms did not come down from the horizon, and then there passed through here, greasy and black, on the edges of the sky.
The whole community spent the rest of the day at home.
There were no more disputes, but, on the contrary, after lunch, everyone was in the best position of spirit.
Katavasov made the ladies laugh at first with his original jokes, which always liked him so much when he first met him, but then, caused by Sergei Ivanovic, he gave a very interesting account of the difference in character and even the face of the females and males of the room flies and their lives.
Koznyshev too had the fun and the tea caused by his brother set out his view of the future of the eastern question, and it was so simple and good that everyone heard it.
Kitty was the only one who couldn't hear him,' she was asked to wash Mitya.
A few minutes after Kitty and Levin left, they called her to the nursery.
While leaving his tea and also regretting the interruption of an interesting conversation, while concerned about why he was called, as it happened only in important cases, Levin went to the nursery.
Although Sergei Ivanovich &apos; s unheard plan of how the released forty million Slavic world must begin a new era in history with Russia was very interesting to him as something completely new to him, even though both curiosity and concern about why he was called were bothering him -- as soon as he was alone, leaving the living room, he immediately remembered his morning thoughts.
And all these considerations about the importance of the Slavic element in world history seemed so insignificant to him, compared to what was done in his soul, that he instantly forgot all this and went into the mood he was in this morning.
He did not recall now, as was the case in the first place, the entire course of thought (it was not necessary for him to do so).
He immediately moved into the sense that guided him, which was connected to these thoughts, and found this feeling in his heart even stronger and more certain than ever before.
Now he didn't have what he had to do when he had to restore the entire course of thought in order to find a feeling.
On the other hand, the sense of joy and tranquillity was aliveer than ever before, and the thought did not keep pace with the feeling.
He walked through the terrace and looked at the two stars on the dark sky and suddenly remembered, "Yes, looking at the sky, I thought that the vault that I saw wasn't true, and yet something I didn't think I was hiding something from myself," he thought. 'But whatever it is, there can be no objection.'
It's worth thinking, and it's all gonna come out!"
As he entered the nursery, he remembered what he had hidden from himself.
It was that if the main proof of God is his revelation that there is good, why is this revelation confined to one Christian church?
What is involved in this revelation with the beliefs of Buddhists, Magometan, who are also confessors and doers of good?
He felt that he had an answer to that question; but he had not yet had time to express it to himself, as he had already entered the nursery.
Kitty stood with her sleeves in the tub over her child, and when she heard her husband's steps, turning her face to him, she smiled at him.
With one hand, she kept under the head of a floating child on his back and a curling knife, and with one hand, she pressed the muscle evenly and pressed the sponge on him.
'Here you go, look, look! 'She said, when her husband came to her.' 'Agatha Mikhaylovna is right.
He'll find out.
The point was that Mitha had obviously recognized all of his people from this day forward.
As soon as Levin approached the bathtub, his experience was immediately presented to him, and his experience was quite successful.
The cook, deliberately called, leaned toward the child.
He frowned and frowned negatively on his head.
Kitty leaned toward him, &quot; he shined a smile, sticking his hands in his sponge, and locked his lips, making such a happy and strange sound that not only Kitty and the nanny, but Levin was suddenly admired.
The child was taken out of the bathtub on one hand, watered, sheeted, wiped, and after a piercing scream, the mother was served.
'Well, I'm glad you're starting to love him,' said Kitty to her husband after she and her baby sat down in their usual place. 'I am very pleased.
'Cause it's starting to upset me.
You said you didn't feel anything for him.
'No, didn't I say I didn't feel it?
I just said I was disappointed.
'What, is he disappointed in him?
'Not that I was disappointed in him, but in my sense; I waited more.'
I was expecting, as a surprise, a new pleasant feeling in me.
And all of a sudden, it's disgusting, it's pathetic...
She listened carefully through the baby, putting on the thin fingers of the rings she took off to wash Mitya.
'And most importantly, there is much more fear and pity than pleasure.'
Now, after that fear during the storm, I realized how much I love him.
Kitty smiled.
'Are you very scared? 'She said.' 'And so am I, but now I'm more afraid than ever.
I'm gonna go see the oak.
How sweet Katavasov is!
It's been so nice all day.
And you and Sergei Ivanich are so good when you want...
Well, go to them.
'Cause after the bath, it's always hot and steamy.
When Levin came out of the nursery and was left alone, he immediately remembered another thought in which something was not clear.
Instead of going into the living room from which the voices were heard, he stopped on the terrace and reclining on the railing, staring at the sky.
It was already dark, and there was no cloud in the south he was looking at.
The clouds were on the opposite side.
From there, there was lightning, and there was a distant thunder.
Levin listened to the drops falling evenly in the garden and looked at the triangle of the stars familiar to him and the Milky Way passing in the middle of him, with its branching.
At every flash of lightning, not only the Milky Way, but also the bright stars disappeared, but as soon as the lightning went out, again, as if abandoned by some mark hand, appeared in the same places.
"Well, what's embarrassing me?" 'He said to himself, feeling forward that the resolution of his doubts, though he still does not know him, was ready in his soul.'
"Yeah, one obvious, unmistakable manifestation of deity is the laws of good that are revealed to the world by revelation, and which I feel in myself, and which in recognition of which I am not what I associate, but by will and will are connected to other people in the same society of believers, which is called a church.
Well, the Jews, the Magometans, the Confucians, the Buddhists -- what are they? 'He asked himself the very question that seemed dangerous to him.' 'Are these hundreds of millions of people deprived of the better good without which life makes no sense?' 'He thought, but immediately corrected himself. 'But what am I asking?' 'He said to himself. 'I ask about the attitude toward the deity of all the diverse beliefs of all mankind.
I'm asking about a common manifestation of God for the whole world with all these foggy spots.
What am I doing?
It is clear to me personally, to my heart, that knowledge is incomprehensible to my mind, and I persist in my desire to express that knowledge with reason and words.
Don't I know the stars don't walk? 'He asked himself, looking at the bright planet that had changed its position to the higher branch of the birch.' 'But when I look at the motion of the stars, I cannot imagine the rotation of the earth, and I am right to say that the stars walk,
And could astronomers understand and figure out anything if they took into account all the complex and varied movements of the earth?
All of their amazing conclusions about the distances, weights, movements and outrages of the celestial bodies are based only on the visible movement of light around a fixed earth, on the very movement that is now before me and that was so for millions of people over the centuries and that has been and will always be the same and can always be believed.
And just as the festivities and schisms would be the conclusions of astronomers, not based on the observations of the visible sky vis-à-vis one meridian and one horizon, so the festivities would also be my conclusions, not on the understanding of good, which has always been and will be the same for all, and which is revealed to me by Christianity and which can always be believed in my soul.
I have no power to judge between them."
'Oh, you didn't leave? 'He said, suddenly, Kitty's voice, who walked the same way into the living room. 'What, you're not upset? 'She said, looking carefully at the light of the stars in his face.
But she wouldn't have looked at his face if the lightning that hid the stars hadn't lit him again.
In light of lightning, she looked at his whole face, and when she saw that he was calm and happy, she smiled at him.
'She understands,' he thought,'she knows what I'm thinking.
Should I tell her or not?
Yeah, I'll tell her."
But the minute he wanted to start talking, she talked, too.
'Here's what, Kostya!
'Do me a favor,' she said, 'come to the corner and see how Sergei Ivanovich was arranged.
I'm embarrassed.
Did you put in a new washroom?
'Well, I will certainly go,' said Levin, getting up and kissing her.
"No, don't say it," he thought, when she went ahead of him. 'It is a secret, for me, one that is necessary, important and indescribable.
This new feeling didn't change me, it didn't make me happy, it didn't enlighten me all of a sudden, as I dreamed -- just like I felt for my son.
There was no surprise either.
And faith -- not faith -- I don &apos; t know what it is -- but the feeling of it has also gone undetected by suffering and settled firmly in the soul.
I will also be angry with Ivan the coachman, I will also argue, I will not speak my thoughts properly, there will also be a wall between the holy ones of my soul and others, even my wife, and I will also blame her for my fear and regret for it, and I will not understand in my mind why I pray, and I will pray, but my life now, my whole life, no matter what happens to me, every minute of it -- not only is not pointless as it was before, but has a clear meaning of the good that I have invested in it!"
