Get in the car!
You put the bag in the car.
- Does your dad like cars?
You two stay here. If the driver comes back, just wait by the car, okay?
Essentially, it's a murder machine, and it obeys the owner and becomes his personal killer.
Rebecca, under Lourdes Chen's car, is a tracking device connected to the alarm device in my desk at the office.
♪ I don't need a pillow in the car ♪
I ate old fries off the floor of my car, but...
I'll fix it. You know how this car works?
Yeah, guys. I think I'm gonna sit down, too, stay in the car with Neal, you know, to make sure he's okay.
Nah, I think they're safer in the car.
No, there's an ugly car on fire.
What did you do to our car?
Yeah, most of the time, but my new car just blew up!
Radio-controlled vehicles.
Time machine.
Which will give me plenty of time, Josh and Neal, to drive the minivan back to the house, take the body out and get the car back before she gets out.
I think someone stole my car.
Leslie must have seen that the car was gone and told the police.
I'm the real owner of this car.
I woke up in the bottom of this car, no wallet, no money, and...
This clown just stole our car?
Or trying to match his sports car.
Christopher's car isn't light blue!
The baby was hit by a car.
Do you have the car keys, Nurse Crane?
He got hit by a car!
The police are investigating an accident, and the car's been confiscated until further notice.
By then, I had been driving for two years. But I prefer to do things according to the rules.
Sergeant, I'm sure Lenny Antoine ran out in front of the car.
There are no cars.
Go buy yourself a car like everyone else.
I picked him up in the car, and now he's here.
Let's go to the cars.
Two cars.
I was scared and shocked. We got in the car and tried to get back to London.
Take the gentleman to my car.
I'll be waiting in the car around the corner for 10 minutes.
And Mr. Renault's gorgeous car.
strict utility and... not get under the wheels of her husband's car. Role
Integrated Transport Service. Rent cars. Transport of all types.
All cars, get out of here now!
This is car number three.
All cars around the airport take precautions.
This is Car 8...
Give me the strength to protect my father from hell's cars!
Get in the car.
Or am I a machine like those poor robots?
A machine designed to destroy the world.
"This is our plan-- the catafalc will be in jail an hour before hanging and you'll be waiting in your car on Tri Corner Road and pick up the Bull.
I'll be waiting for you in the car.
I got my arm hurt by a car.
- Imagine, 30 miles we drove together in his car, and he didn't even try to hug me.
I even fell asleep, and he just kept driving.
Okay. - Let him send the car, silly.
Look, I forgot. Send a car after me.
Cars are a great thing.
When I see a good guy like you in a nice car next to an old wallet, don't tell me it's your cousin from the province, and you save on gas.
And my car hasn't even been paid yet.
In this case, you came to church by car.
My car's parked across the street and my driver fell asleep.
I'd rather walk you to the car.
And now you've got all the money you wanted." You've got a great apartment, a car, a chauffeur, and all the dresses and trinkets a woman can wish for.
Is the car parked on the wrong side?
Give me your address, and I'll send a car for you.
Take her to the car, I'll take her to the hospital.
Come on, guys, get her in the car.
- Put her in the car.
Oh, I jumped out of the car and shot him five times, but I missed.
Next car to Baltimore, No. 1 18.
I'll leave my car for her.
You don't remember? You got to the dragon in the car.
Madame Grosynsky doesn't need a car.
Madame Grosynsky's car can't be removed.
Madame Grushinsky's car.
Madame Grushinsky's car.
Madame Grosynsky's car can't be driven.
Madame Grosynsky needs a car.
- Madame, the car's waiting.
Madame Grosynsky doesn't need a car.
Why did you let the car go?
Madame Grushinsky's car.
Madame Grushinsky's car.
The car's served.
We drove a car, a hundred miles an hour, a plane.
Madame Grushinsky's car.
Madame Grushinsky's car.
Car to the garage, bags to the room.
Can I walk you to the car?
Except there's my yellow car with a counter inside it.
I have a car.
Come to my Adirondak, there will be a car, a liquor, a fun companion, and a ranger will drive the deer.
Get in the car, I'll tell you everything about him.
They get out, get in the car.
The car is waiting, madam.
I don't need a car.
Jacques, let the car go.
Don't let go of the car.
I'm a great car.
I'm gonna... I'm gonna buy myself a car, too.
What if we took a ride down the Chateau?
It's easier to run away from responsibilities. My car!
His Excellency's car!
His Excellency's car!
His Excellency's car!
- His Excellency's car!
Please send a car to 2411 at the Roshbourg Hills.
Calling car 61.
I'm calling all the cars.
The last person to the car is the stinker.
It's a great little car.
Yeah, my dad's gonna buy a new car.
- She was a nice little car.
I sold the car.
Get in the car.
It's not in the car!
Never seen a sewing machine?
The car's waiting. Goodbye.
Did he have a green car?
I'm gonna jump in the car around the corner.
You'll be in the car.
I was so crazy, I ran outside and jumped into the first car I saw.
We missed the car.
There's a car coming!
I'm gonna stop the car, and I'm not gonna use my thumb to do that.
You could have stopped 40 cars.
I'll remember that in case we need 40 cars.
- How did you get the car?
He got away and took the car.
And there's no car either.
All right, take the car and stay close to them.
If you change your mind, your car's waiting at the back gate.
You didn't drive slowly, so you won't get tips.
No, get in touch with all the cars.
Get all this junk in the car.
With his gorgeous car!
You got any old cars like that?
The priest's house. But he doesn't have a car.
There's cars.
Look, there's a few cars in there.
Killers don't drive cars.
Pat, call the captain's car.
I borrowed this suit so I wouldn't be recognized, and I took his car.
Here's the professor's car.
Our car broke down.
- He stayed in the car.
I was dragging money out of my classmates' lockers, and then I started cleaning pockets and car salons.
The main feature of the new car is the increased compression rate." Ar minus one is greater than A by the magnitude of gamma, where "r" is the indicator of compression and gamma...
As a result, the machine works completely silently.
Behind this car.
The air is the same everywhere. We're gonna get in my car.
- Mr. Kudo sent a car for you.
Stop the car!
- She was thrown out of the car at full speed.
He was found in a car on a cliff with a revolver in his hand.
- He'll take you to your car.
I'm in my car.
I can, lady, but the car can't.
We'll take the car.
- Follow that car.
- You stop your car, you hit someone else's ass.
Would you step out of the car, please?
And this morning, Wooster and his servant got out of the house, got in the car and left!
All right, come on, come on, get out of the car, I've got a lot to do!
Did you tell Mr. Stanhop that Finney delivered the car?
Tell Van I'll wait for him in the car.
- Linda's waiting for you in the car.
I made me wait in this cold car for my poor Linda with a cold nose.
Like this wonderful car, right?
Like this wonderful car!
Armand's car broke down in some terrible hole.
And you'll forgive me for breaking up the car?
...and then she would show up with a handsome man like Mr. Duval... and a story about a car crash...
That the car broke down?
- His car's old.
- Where's your car? - In the garage.
In that case, I'm gonna go change and you get the car out.
That our cars broke down and we went into your bedroom to call a cab?
Move over. - That's my car.
- Can I borrow a car to get home?
Wait a second, I'll get out of the car.
- Is that your car?
- Are you sure it's yours?
Will you deliver my car in the morning?
I can't even get my car through this street!
- Car's waiting, Miss Burton.
Get her in the car.
I only saw him a little while back when you got out of his car.
You know, I've always wanted to buy you a nice car, but maybe we've always had to spend money on something else.
Of course, the car will sell itself.
There's my car, it's exactly the same.
How's the car going?
The car is perfect, Mr. Weldon.
We've never been in a car like this before.
- Yeah. - How's the car?
The car is no longer a luxury.
I just wanted to brag about the car.
Ten days ago, we sat at Armstrong and Company behind our sewing machines among hundreds of others.
Start the car!
All cars to West Yard Station.
All cars to West Yard Station.
All cars to West Yard Station.
All cars to West Yard Station.
Take the car and the reinforcements, and wait for him on the corner.
Edd, keep your car close. Come on.
Hey, mister! I think it's your car.
- That's my car!
That's my car.
- You want me to move the car?
Let me drive this car.
That's my car!
- Are you saying this car is yours?
Your golf ball, your car?
Will you get out of my car?
This is my car, and I'm gonna drive it.
But it's such a lovely night to drive a car.
He's chewing on your car.
Why from a lot of places where we could stay with a leopard in the car... did you stay in the city where the circus plays?
You think this is my car?
Here's my car.
It's not your car!
That's my car!
They stole my car.
Let's get behind that car!
Among other things, we stole the car!
We caught him in front of the butcher shop in Dr. Lehman's stolen car.
- She stole my car again!
- The car!
Mrs. Marco found her car where you left it.
A tiny wine in a giant machine of evolution.
You have a car, great.
- Shall we go get the car?
Her car broke down. I'll take her to town.
But there aren't many bastards that make a good man stick on a car.
I didn't get in the car, and you asked me questions.
We're probably gonna have to tie him up and load him in the car.
Get in the car, mother.
But don't stop, don't get out of the car.
Get in the car.
Get in the car.
We need to load the car.
Help Al with the car.
Get in the car, kids.
Car number?
I'll start the car.
Five people in the car by the eucalyptus.
Four more in another car on the main road.
They wrote down the license plate numbers.
Get in the car!
You're going in another car.
The Hinkel Palace was the center of a giant enterprise. An enterprise that creates the world's greatest war machine.
Cars give plenty, leaving them in need.
More than cars, we need humanity.
You're not cars, you're not cattle!
All of you! You're the people in power! Authorities to build machines!
Tracking, chasing fire trucks?
From now on, I'm a woman, not a car.
Mrs. Phoebe de Wolf from South Street gave birth to a baby in a patrol car. The baby was delivered by the sheriff's deputies.
And they dragged her into the car to identify her.
Bruce, I thought you were in the car.
- We ran into a patrol car. - Bam, and we're done.
- Their car's fucked up.
- They won't. Go to the car.
- Baby, you better get to the car.
It's a tempting offer, but I have to get back to the car.
But if you mention kindness or charity again, you can get out of the car and go home.
Where is she... come on! The car's waiting at the door.
She's not there, she's downstairs in the car.
Please find Mrs. Van Hopper, she's in her car.
Go tell the porter to get him out of the car.
You must have left it in the car.
Aren't you gonna pour some good gas into my car?
You know, Max, I'm really tired of my job as a car salesman.
I don't think you know how you feel when you drive a fancy car and you realize it's not yours.
I'd like to have a car like this.
I wanted to stop selling cars and go to the village.
But if you ever need a new car, let me know.
- Is that your car, sir?
People get out of the car sometimes if they want to, right?
Electric stove, refrigerator, dishwasher, everything.
Two miles to the car.
Either pay or we'll take the car!
Our car!
- Joe, why don't we throw him behind the car? - That's not a bad idea.
There's no light in the car?
Of course I couldn't get such a big man out of the car.
This time, he must have woken up drunk and started the car.
We'll set up new routes. We'll buy new cars.
- Are those the new cars you were talking about?
- Yes. I see you have a new car, too.
New cars.
I gave you my husband's insurance money to buy new cars.
I bought a new car.
Yeah, I bought a new car.
- Hank, are you in the car?
Captain Cronin's car!
When I was waiting in the car and Roy was at your house asking permission to marry me.
Did you sit in the car?
Take the car!
Of course, he's tied up in the car...
- My car will be here in a minute.
Let's go in my car.
- Import cars aren't worth anything.
You haven't paid for a car in 12 years.
He hasn't paid for a car in 12 years.
Don't hang up, the car's here.
For a 30-year-old car, it doesn't matter.
It's only for one purpose to show the people the shame, the scoundrelity of Jim Gettys' boss' political car.
- Are you in the car?
Packed up and called the car.
Thank you, sir. I'll keep an eye on your car.
Damn it, it's beautiful, driving around town in the spring... with your wife.
I left my purse in the car.
Get in the car.
- Bagging in the car?
If the car comes over and asks about the lead, what are you gonna say?
- You have to put the lead in the car.
Your property starts far from the main highway, we'll use a private car.
The driver's name is Harry Gaskins.
And this car, Harry Gaskins.
Hey, what are you doing with my car?
Let's move on, destroy a man's car.
Don't you think you're gonna ruin your vision by reading in a moving car?
Thank heaven none of us drove the car.
- It's in an open car.
Lots of police cars and motorcycles.
My car is completely blocked by your mechanized division.
Get the cars off Mr. Charles's road.
Get the car in while I get dressed.
Only in cars, not in cans.
- My car's outside.
- Follow this car, quickly!
He's downstairs in the car. Why?
What do you do when you get in the car?
My car broke down.
- I mean, don't you have a car?
- You mean you're just gonna jump into any unknown car?
- Anything but Stanley Stimer's car.
- That's awful. You don't know what kind of bastard can drive a car.
I'm sure he won't mind if I borrow his car.
- It's a car.
That's a car.
Let's say you drop me off somewhere, and then don't rush home. I'll pick up the car later.
I left a note where I said I took the car.
Tell me, how do you know this director so well to take his car?
- This is Mr. Sullivan, sir. Owner, as you thought, of a stolen car.
- Okay, but you can't drive your car without a license.
Whose car is this?
I found a friend who stole a car to drive me home.
Why don't you come back in the car?
I'll send for the car and they'll take you home.
Look, I already told you, I'll send a car after you.
I saw the car, and I did the first thing that came to my mind. - Okay.
I thought an actor like you parked always put the car on the brake.
Our car broke down.
I have an old car.
Yeah, but you don't know anything about new cars.
I took this flight to leave the Earth, to leave this ridiculous and unconstructed world, full of closed roads, unhappy marriages, noisy neighbors, cars that roll around with dirt, buttons that rip their collars apart, and plans that end in a coffin.
It feels like they've invented new noise-making machines.
Florida, get your mom in the car.
- Where did this car go?
- What car?
- I didn't see any car.
- Give me the cab, my car's wanted.
Hey, Gloves, they put the lady in that car.
There's the car.
The car's here, but where are the people?
Five people will be at the pier, one in each car on the ferry.
And I'd buy a car and eat meat and butter.
Stop the car.
" Even if Europe's vast expanses, many ancient and illustrious states have fallen or may fall into the grip of Gestapo and other heinous machines of the Nazi regime, we will not give up or lose.
Look at these cars.
After everything you've been through to get here, you've become part of the car.
Then by train, by car, or by foot on the edge of Africa. To Casablanca in French Morocco.
Take the car, drive around town.
Quickly, my car!
- I'll meet you in the car.
She did it with the slowness of the laden car.
- And he asked me to take Miss Stanley's car.
Perry, I don't see Miss Stanley's car.
Since you gave her the car, William, we've seen it very rarely.
She drives like a lunatic.
I'll take the car to wash and polish it.
- Perry took your car?
But her car's still in the garage.
What car, Ice?
He's waiting in the car.
Your sister was shameless to write me a letter and ask her to send her car to Baltimore.
Roy doesn't have a car, she might want to use it.
Besides, it's Stanley's car.
Nothing in the world will make me send her a car.
I'll walk you to the car.
Last night, around 7:30, a car hit a woman and a girl when they crossed Grant's Boulevard and Sayer Street.
She didn't remember the number, but a car with traces of blood was found on this street.
We checked the registration numbers. It's your car.
If anyone else could use your car, you better tell us, Miss Kingsmith.
Because when I came back instead of putting the car in the garage as usual, I left it outside.
You can pick up the car at any time.
But this is my car, which means I'm responsible.
But he took the car to wash it.
Stanley, what time did Perry take the car last night?
She says you called Perry and said you shouldn't wash the car. Because you need her.
Ms. Stanley thinks you took the car shortly before the incident.
You told me not to take the car because. You needed her.
You said, "Perry, you don't need to take the car today."
All you have to do is say you took the car.
Just tell me you took the car.
Would it be wise for him to admit that he took the car?
You were driving.
All this just because Stanley owns the car.
Tell them it was me in the car.
You got in your car and you ran.
My car is at your disposal.
The car's waiting, Mr. Graham.
Why did the car stop and everybody's looking the same way?
I can't get out of the car.
I heard you got hit by a car. - Yes.
Ambulance.
She was in the ambulance.
What kind of car, sweetheart?
I asked the chief mechanic to come up here to find a way to turn the car off completely.
- The whole car.
- Get in the car.
- Your car.
I heard a girl talking to a man in a car.
U.S. Tank Brigade, Car 5.
We were attacked by a large convoy of tanks and cars.
Well, maybe the cars aren't gonna last long, but with people, it's a big risk.
German car.
A beautiful car arrived once.
- There was only one car.
- Joe, why don't you drive?
- I'm gonna drive with Charlie.
- Charlie, go get the car out.
- The car crashed into a horse.
- I can give you a ride, Signorina, I'm in the car.
Yeah, I was gonna buy a car, and they're from the auto company.
- Yeah, I'm gonna go check out the car.
They're in a hurry to sell the car.
- Bye, I'll be back with a beautiful car.
Where's the car?
Hurry up and outrun this car!
- Start the car, I'll meet you at the exit.
- Amy and I are gonna wait by the car.
I left Amy in the car and she's impatient.
We have to leave the car here.
It's about the car insurance.
It's about your cars, Mustang and Plymouth.
It could be a random car, or it could fall from a height.
...and I went home. When I put the car in, I went upstairs.
- In the car?
And you came with a check for the cars. You know?
It's gonna work-- one car written on you.
I've got two more cars.
She put the car by the wall, like I said.
I figured it would be safer if he got in the car right away.
I'm gonna get the car out.
Falls are divided by means and types of jump: from the height, to the train, to the car, to the horse's hooves.
He sells cars.
"And don't drive."
- I'll wait for you in the car.
After that, you want me to sit here and wait for you to have fun... and now you want to take the car to the top of all this...
Look at what you've turned my car into.
Is that your car?
And for that, don't you have to hit the car a little bit?
My car is standing right in front of my house... and if you need gas, 5 gallons in the barn.
- But I don't have a car.
I'm eating without getting out of the car.
You drive the car.
One of us was supposed to get out of the car.
If you're on a rental car, you're gonna have to pay for it.
Where did we leave the car?
Sit down on the floor of the car.
Are you in the car?
I need a car tonight.
The car will take you to the station.
Get in the car.
40 minutes, if you have a car and you have one.
Too bad you didn't hold Ian's car.
Why would I need a car?
- Can we get the car?
Where? She wasn't even 8 years old when she left in Ian's car.
She was in Erraig, then she came back, rang on the phone, and she drove away again.
Please, car to Hedingatan, 43.
You could get out of a car.
Nice car, Johnny.
Tried to run away in a murdered girl's car.
That's my car!
Move, get in the car. Quickly.
No autographs. You can hand them out right out of the car.
Get in the car.
Look at all these cars down there.
I can dial the phone number, I can drive, I can even throw a coin in the jukebox.
They found his car in one of the private garages.
I have a car and...
I hate to say this, but this is Geiger's car.
I moved her car to the spot.
- What kind of car is that, you say?
The hand brake of the car is pulled out to the middle.
What was Owen doing with your car last night?
- Follow the car.
- Where did you leave the car?
It rained like a bucket, and I was sitting in the car.
There was another car parked in front, waiting across the street.
He was hit on the head. The car was directed to the pier and removed from the hand brake.
So you left a man in a car outside Beverly unconscious.
And you want me to believe that someone walked by, got in the car, drove to the ocean, pushed her off the pier, and then came back and hid Geiger's body?
Get in the car. To drive.
As soon as the police car passes, we'll touch Geiger's house.
I'll get the car while you take the money. I'll meet you outside.
I drove a car with Thompson on my knees.
- Do you have a car?
You drive off the highway, you see the garage and the car paint shop. They're being held by Art Huck.
I wish you'd changed it yourself. I'm busy, I have to paint the car.
Do they paint your car?
He's a extortionist, a carjacker.
We're gonna have to take his car.
When Eddie Mars' wife gets my car fixed and he finds out what happened, there's gonna be big trouble.
I'll get rid of the car.
The ambulance's coming up.
All I found out was that he was taken to the Clear Valley in an ambulance.
You drive around the block and stop the car in front of our office.
I saw the car.
But I know a guy who's smart enough to drive a car.
- No, thank you. I have my own car.
Why was this car trying to hurt me?
Car 15. Car 15.
Car 21.
Car 21.
- Let the cars go.
Police car.
This car, please.
Gus, what if you and I leave in your car?
My car's outside.
I've never had this much trouble since my aunt won the car, and the whole family got into a fight.
I even got my blood pressure up. Can I borrow the car?
Put this in the car. I'm gonna get my tie.
Get in the car.
The Browns bought a new car.
Get your car out of here!
Let's get in the car. Excuse me.
I left the car here, but it's gone.
You don't have a car.
Hey, listen. Where's my car?
The car I drove into your tree.
Maybe I left Martini's car.
I saw your car crash into a tree, and I thought...
I'm going home in a car right now, I can give you a ride.
- Snip in the car.
They think he was thrown out of the car.
The car you're driving, the new tires.
He got hit a little by a car.
That's why I left that note in your car.
You know, you have to keep your car in the garage.
Why don't you catch the car and go home?
My car's outside the door. Get in there.
- My car!
- Get in the car.
Get in the car, both of you.
- Better call the ambulance. - That's right.
Come on in here, my car's outside. I have to do something important for the movie.
Oh, yeah, that's very good for the cereal harvest. That's good for Elizabeth Arden. Why isn't anyone driving?
Uncle Sam spends millions on the highway, and not one car in sight.
- It's an Italian car, I think you left the car downstairs on the road, and we're standing here and we're gonna get wet?
I don't like the west, I don't like the mountains, I'm so unhappy, and this actor broke into our lives on his Isotta he spent a week driving a train and I sold the car to me I bought it at my wife's request, and she loved the upholstery.
She doesn't know anything about cars, transmissions, transmissions, but every time something happens to this machine, it's very expensive.
There's always something that happens, now it's raining and then over and over again I don't know the second car like this, I don't want to see it anymore, there it is, ungrateful creature.
- I'm cold. I've got a heater. I've got everything in this car, except the engine.
- Who should have the prestige of not winning the war if we wanted a car, would choose a used car if you did that, what would you get today?
And how much do you want for this car?
Why do you need this car?
I can't resist your car friends.
We bought a car.
You know, it's a really good car with me driving.
Dink's driving my car, Oh, I bought Isotta.
Tell me, why did you decide to buy this car?
It's a car!
It's a car!
- take the luggage from the car, but first prepare three rooms for Miss... Miss Christopher Madden, isn't it, Christopher Madden?
Okay, okay, I'll send the car.
And yet, the police's phone has been ringing more and more often... and patrol cars are also trying hard to catch up with the runners, scouring the whole town looking for a secret figure seen here or there.
Um, I'm gonna be on patrol very soon.
- It's Paul's car.
Bill, where's your car?
I'll drive, take my things with me.
You're not gonna catch the train, so you're gonna ride with me.
I don't like driving at night anyway.
His car went down, it was an accident.
We're gonna get in the car and we're gonna leave.
Take the car and go with the accountant to the station.
Usually a man like me takes his father's car and goes for a ride.
You think people like that, with villas, salons, and cars, are gonna make fun of beggars like us?
So we're gonna go to a restaurant, have a drink, remember old times, then you're gonna get in the car and leave?
All cars are being checked.
Let's get in the car and get away from them.
The car's downstairs, Chief.
I'd put a car in the garage.
No, it's not the right audience. Polo attacked the cashier using Maurice' car. She's just been identified.
Look, Polo, where did you steal the car?
Luckily, you can use your cousin's car.
At zero fifteen, did you put your car in the garage?
Because it's all for nothing, cars never find.
We found your car.
So, your car was stolen.
Do you remember your car number?
Remember the car number, and where it was taken from you, don't remember.
You weren't in the car.
You stole the car from the villa of Saint-Marso.
I got a car around the corner.
A huge car, the size of a bus.
And the car drove out of the corner and hit her.
Sadie, the car!
The car's been stolen.
For you, the racing car just crashed, you're in a cab.
We steal some jewelry suitcase or rob a bank, we confiscate this car, and we never go back.
- You rented a car?
- I'll get the car.
Where's the car?
I'm in the car.
George, wake up, Earl's car is here.
Just drive.
A car, $5,000, a ticket out of the country and a dream.
I can offer you a car.
At 2:30 a.m., in a 54th Street car, one of the men with gunshot wounds received medical treatment.
You drive.
There's a car outside.
General Finney wants you in his car.
Once he took me home from the evening meeting, stopped the car on Earl Street for no reason, as he said, he just wanted to touch my lips.
These are the wheels from my brother's car, he used to have a car.
Question: Do machines in a factory ever have to rest?
Get all available police cars out there right now.
Car 702, 5th, 509th, 7th and 110th, come in.
Special attention to cars in the lower part of Manhattan.
Have them send a car to Brooklyn.
Let's get Tommy, get in the car and go.
Bring me the call list, Maggie, and order me a service car for tonight.
I have a coat, a car that hasn't been paid yet, a few dresses and an engagement ring.
I had a car that I was crazy about.
I've changed 10 cars since then, but I didn't like any of them that much.
- It must have been your first car.
- Terry, can you lend me your car? - Yeah, sure.
Terry, can you lend me a car for tonight?
Send a car after me, please.
- Could've been hit by a car or grabbed.
Ask Philip to help me get him out of the room, and take him down the back stairs to the car.
Here, finally, a patrol car.
Send a police car to Catania and take this letter to the commissioner.
I got one thing in the car here.
Get in the car, or we'll both get pulmonary inflammation.
Enough for a used car?
$1,500 for a car.
$1,500 for a back-up car?
We'll take our friends' car, Mobley.
R.T. Waters, a farmer from Akota, gave a description of the three men who stole his car, threatening with a weapon."
How's the car going?
The one with the short match is waiting in the car.
Some people think the guy in the car has an easy job.
I'm staying in the car.
- You gonna leave the car here?
I got the cars for you.
Get in my car, man, quick.
They found your weapon in your broken car.
I could get you a car.
I know someone who got a new car today.
Is that a new car?
Let's get some stuff out of the car.
I'll wait in the car for you, only half an hour.
In an attempt to catch up with a slippery car...
- I'll stay in the car, in the air.
It's gonna be a problem getting to the car.
If you don't stop the car, I'll jump out!
Dad! This car doesn't have a coil.
Why don't you take it off the other car...?
Whose car is this? I don't know.
Put the car inside.
- Isn't that your car?
Leave the car there?
Do you have any I.D. on the car?
I got the car. Do you remember me?
I'm in a hurry, I need a car right now.
I assure you, I'm the one who brought the car.
And the car's with them.
That bastard, the carjackers.
I had to leave yesterday. Because of the car, I wanted to hide. But I changed my mind.
- And there are no cars.
One of those new English cars, alle ap!
Marry me and I'll buy you a dishwasher.
And sell real estate, washing machines, mousetraps... train your voice and get to the vice president.
- And who's the man in the car?
Something changed my life without even leaving the car.
Drive carefully, darling?
- Car.
It's an electric computer machine.
The Crown Secretary... has never seen an account machine.
An accident. I got hit by a car. In front of the house.
I got a car here.
He died before the ambulance arrived.
Harry used to say he drove very carefully.
He was hit by a car.
Tell me how cars...
Is there a car here?
Take the car and anyone who wants to go.
Where's the car?
Hey, what happened to the fancy car?
Get in the car.
I don't want to get in your car.
Put him in my car and watch out for the crowd.
Take the body out of the car and get it up there.
Sir, if you'd be so kind and get in the car...
I have a car.
I'm the driver of the woman whose car he got in yesterday.
Your husband was at the scene and got in the car.
There was a small car waiting for her outside the villa.
Your husband was sleeping in the car.
Sleeping in a car is hard.
It's not much, I'm warning you, but you can park the car next to ours and wait.
Looks like I'm gonna have to live in this car.
You can't spend your whole life in a talking machine.
Orpheus, nothing you care about except this car.
This car is driving you crazy.
I'm afraid of a non-spoken car.
- Okay. Can you get the car out?
- My car?
No one should suspect there's a second car.
The young man disappeared under tragic circumstances, and his poems came back to us from Orpheus, who was sitting in the car and who claims he doesn't know what happened to Sejest.
He doesn't care about anything but that woman's car.
Just like you know, where he went when he went to that car.
Please escort me to the woman who sews on the sewing machine.
- Can you get me that? On the sewing machine.
I'm gonna go over George to make you feel good... then I'll meet you at the car.
- Let's go to the car.
- I don't surround my work with all the impressive little things your husband and his buddies honored by professors, like chubby couches and counting machines.
Send an ambulance to 1400 Canon Drive, we'll have to get the body out of here.
And the cars, too.
Stupid, really, just sit in the car and get cold.
You forgot your prize in the car, he brought it.
Car number 71, armed assault on Camden Square.
He's got two houses, four cars, and a bunch of employees.
- Got a car?
You can't drive for 10 hours.
I won't tell you where the car is.
The accident. In the car.
- Got a car?
There's a car.
There's a car just left.
- I told you to stay in the car.
- Surround this car.
Next time, stay in the car and he won't see you.
Why don't you try digging up the car yourself?
That car with the cops.
We're gonna have two escape cars.
We're going through this corridor to the platforms, our car will be here.
- Second car?
- You're taking this car.
Check all cars from other states.
Hundreds of cars pass here every day.
Let's get rid of the car in Pasadena and get a cab there.
We can steal a car.
Take our car.
- I thought I heard the car.
Go to the back of the car.
They can't escape unless they leave the car and walk.
Hurry up, Mommy! They're getting out of the car.
Making license plates for cars.
- Elwood, we're gonna take the car for a ride.
Stop the car, Wesley.
Wilson, the car!
- Mom, you promised to wait in the car.
- The car's gone. The judge took her. We're gonna have to go and wait for the bus.
I have an apartment, a car and an ulcer.
Got a car?
She's got a boat, a car, jewelry, everything.
You're told that the girl who was in your house was found dead. She was thrown out of the car.
All we know now is that she was thrown out of a moving car.
Are you sure the murder happened in the car?
So you're driving.
You drive and you suffocate at the same time.
We put them in soft beds, we wrap them in fur mats, we put them in front of the front stairs, but we never throw them out of the car like cigarette butts.
I'll walk you to the car.
Look what happened to the car.
You can't fight all the time, hit cars, torture loved ones, friends.
We'll move out of the rental apartment, and I want to buy you a car. Come on.
Do you want me to drive your car, honey?
I asked you to drive the car away.
Once in my car.
Make a car?
Do you know how many cars steal around the country in a year?
About our car.
It's very... funny that you found the car.
The car was parked...
Shanway said the car was stolen from the parking lot in front of the hospital.
- You split the body into the bushes and got rid of the car.
She stole my car.
I just wanted my car.
No, get the car back.
In the car?
Get in the car and leave Shanway standing on the road.
We need to get the car up.
I was able to let her drive.
Get in the car, Tim.
- Can you describe the car or this guy?
- We're here for the car.
- What car?
- The car's not here.
The car's supposed to be here by noon tomorrow, or we're gonna have a fireworks.
So, I had to find $290 and very quickly, or I'm gonna lose my car. She wasn't in Palm Spring or the garage.
And I kept the car on the other side of the street behind Ruddy's store.
This is about my car.
What if you're here to hide the car the financial company is looking for?
I just put the car in the garage.
- Maybe I should get the car.
I put the car in your garage until I found the spare room. I thought the house was empty.
- Do you have a problem with the car?
My car will be under the roof while I amend the script.
They found your car in the garage and they want to tow it.
They came for my car.
- My car was taken from me.
Don't be stupid. We don't need two cars, we have one.
The only seat that wasn't polished was the leopard's skin. And there was a golden phone in the car.
Take the car out and take the script to Paramount,
Yes, Mr. DeMille, about her car.
Hey! That funny car Cole was talking about.
They didn't want the lady, they wanted to rent the car.
Tell him to forget about the car.
I'll buy him five cars if I have to.
You took the car.
Do you want to wash the car?
- The studios just need a car.
I'll take Mr. Gillis' luggage to the car.
Bring the car to the door.
- We can leave the car at the airport.
In the car every cop will be looking for.
This is my car, not his.
Some car turned on that road.
Well, it won't last long if we don't get rid of this car.
Give me your I.D. on the car.
Car papers, a certificate of ownership.
Is it possible that this car is hot?
I wasn't gonna sell the car.
- Oh, Jeff, this car is so dirty.
- Even? But my car is worth...
He realized that we need to get rid of the car quickly.
- But here's the car.
My car's in good shape.
The four state police are requested to search for... Mrs Lennington's car, gray convertible, 1949 issue.
The fight he's going to in his friend's car can bring him closer to the world crown.
Stop the car, please.
Don't you realize I'm not a picture typing machine?
Every minute new and new cars arrive.
He always wanted to set things up a little bit, build tourist houses, buy a new car, put some money in a bank.
But when he came out and found all the people he worked with just lying there, you could say he became something like a car with no one left to push the buttons.
Maybe we can find a washing machine.
We'd better find a dishwasher, or we'll have hands like laundry.
I'll take another car.
Get in the car!
Who came in that car?
I'll send a car after her.
But it's like cars on the road, and in a minute there's always gonna be another one.
Three huge cars.
You were afraid of phones and light switches... and you tried to smash my sister Martha's car.
- Car 401.
- Car 402.
Car 403......................................
Car 405.
Car 404.
Car 406.......................................
- Will you take the car?
Take him to the car.
He stole my car.
- Where can we get the car?
- The car!
Where can we get a car?
- Lady, we'll take your car.
- We need a car.
His car got out of the way.
If you want to take your car, sit down, I'll give you a ride.
He took the car to the workshop.
Did you get under the car?
I should have asked you back in the car.
I'll call him tomorrow... and send him a car. Are you happy?
Chesira! Car keys!
You take the car.
I thought I told you to wait in the car.
I guess I'd better get in touch with Joe in the car.
Howard, why don't you go and get in the car?
His car's outside.
- I heard the car and I asked myself:
They started hitting me as soon as they pushed me into the car.
Nothing, nothing after they pushed me into the car.
What kind of car did they have?
You take Rienzi: his wife, his house, his cars, everything.
He says that Renzie sent a car after her every night after the show.
He wants to go with you in this car.
Her coat, some cheap jewelry, probably her car, too.
I couldn't believe it. - I heard it on the radio in the car.
You'd better drive in different cars to get through a crowd of fans.
I don't get it! That car hasn't been in trouble for almost six hours!
This man jumped into my car and--
My car broke down.
The guy with the car.
Hook's waiting in the car.
Leave the car, let's walk.
There's a diner, there's a lot of cars around.
Where are the cars?
- He has to come in his car.
- I'll take your car. - Okay.
That's when you started driving the ambulance?
I drive an ambulance until I save enough money to open a store.
We spent most of our time talking about you and his plans for a racing car store.
You could fix the car, change it, we could do it on the weekend.
You're looking at a man who's been through over 5,000 sports cars.
And in ours, we can serve all the leading brands of sports cars. We're not gonna burn.
If you need a car when we're home, you can have it.
I got a job that pays more than the driver of this lousy car.
Will you drive her car to Pebble Beach?
I can sell my car.
I told him to take my car and buy it.
In the car.
- Her car's not here.
When was the last time you drove a Treyman car?
See, the lever moves forward and the car... back.
Tell me, do you think there was interference with the Tremans' car?
Yes, sir, I'd say there was an intervention in the car.
Could the fuel regulator have been displaced because of the impact, or because the car fell?
And that the missing detail could have broken down when the car hit the cliff?
I'm asking because I had this time when I was fixing my car last week.
But why stay on the details, the prosecution didn't provide convincing evidence that there was interference with the Tremans' car.
Take my car.
So he really showed you how to adjust the car!
Big, modern, it protects the rights and interests of those who sail, and all machines, documents, data here for the needs of seafarers. There's no other way.
Sonia heard about it on the radio in the car.
You drank so much whiskey you couldn't drive home and go to bed on your own.
They'll be in the car.
I came from Cannes this morning in Mademoiselle's car...
- You always wanted a car?
They're chopping the car.
The car didn't start at the last minute.
I heard car noises.
Get the car ready.
And nobody digs until Johnny comes back with the car after the repair.
Lead the car in this direction, continue to patrol.
- Wait for me. I'll get the car.
- Yeah, catch the car.
- Yeah, I'll do the car.
I'm never gonna get in that stupid car again!
You think you can drive?
And if you're not gonna, why did you take the car all day?
- "Why have you been carrying a car all day?"
Here's a very beautiful car.
I'll take your suitcases to his car.
He said it was an old car, but that's how he wrote it.
She doesn't belong in the car.
Don't stop. Get in the car.
Otherwise, I wouldn't start a car.
- Put it in the car.
I don't know what happens to these old cars when people start acting like idiots.
- Honey, wait in the car for a minute.
Why don't you stop talking about old cars for tonight?
- What's your car's name, Clementine?
- I have to work with the car.
- This car is better and you know it.
- Well, if he decides to tear the car apart, he can squeeze 43 km/h.
- My dear friend, when this car touches...
- Look what you did to the car.
- Don't touch that car!
She just bought a car last summer.
About your stupid car and one more thing.
My husband only thinks about the car.
No matter what you think about this car, she's gonna get 100 pounds tomorrow.
- I don't give money, I put it on the car.
- Tell that car to leave.
It was the first car I acquired, Darracque.
- The first car I bought, sir, Darracque.
- But you lost your car.
- You give him money instead of a car.
You drive, you keep your hands on the wheel.
Then you get away from the car.
And this car's going great, so I think I'll sell it when I get there.
Put your hands on the car.
The victim's car, which may be at the wheel of Myers... until it's found.
You can start worrying if they find out I'm in this car. If they can do it at all.
Get behind the car.
Let's get out of the car, as usual.
They found Johnson's car.
I need to get a better look at this car.
The area is being patrolled by planes. Every single car or van is reported.
Get around the car.
Throw him in the car.
Go get the cans out of the car.
Get up, get to the car.
I was followed by a car with gilded trim.
And last time at the gas station, I got out of the car for a minute, and I had to walk.
- Back to the car.
Can I rent a car in Portland?
- We're gonna drive?
We drove in my car.
Get them in the car. Taylor's 10 minutes ahead of us!
I'll see you in the car, darling.
You and Bobby were acting like you saw a police car for the first time.
They're looking for stolen cars, smuggling, I don't know.
Bobby, go to the car and untie the trailer.
- Use the car if we had a rope.
- Stop the car.
Stop the car and get out.
That's the name of the car.
Now that the second car's gone, you're in no hurry.
We're not just gonna need a car, we're gonna need luck.
Stay with him and I'll go tie the rope to the car.
It won't move, the car won't pull out.
Too bad we don't have cars.
We're gonna put you in the car.
The car's waiting.
They'll show you their latest designs and give you a small car. Thank you.
There's a car waiting for you.
Joe, here are the car keys.
You'll stay in the car and then you'll leave.
You were a great driver. Compared to you, it's childish.
What happened to the car, did you fill the gas?
To drive, yes.
A new car, loaded by only one third, has to go.
How? I don't think anyone's gonna dare drive that road on a three-ton car.
You think you're getting paid to drive a car?
You don't understand the division of labour, you drive the car, and I die of fear.
We need to get the cars to a safe distance.
We need to move the car.
Get in the car.
- Madame Manny's car!
Hurry up and send the ambulance.
All the cars in the vicinity of Maple, between 7th and 8th Street, the gas station, 211, were fired, involved by an officer, 187, code 3.
Every time a new car works with trusting people.
You know, I had a feeling someone else was in the car, but I didn't have a chance to look because they hit me on the head.
The car, which was used by criminals who robbed the gas station and shot a police officer, was found abandoned between Glenwood and Highland.
Car 45, car 45...
Look, I went a mile so I wouldn't leave a stolen car outside your house.
He was supposed to walk a mile from where they left the car.
And you're gonna be outside in a fast car, we're gonna leave clean.
- A patrol car passes there every hour.
- But I had to leave the car.
- It was your car.
- My car?
- Don't let anyone near the car.
As soon as they're done there, tell them to check the car for fingerprints.
The car was stolen from the entrance of the apartment building, just two blocks from here.
Car licence.
Car licence.
Yeah, they found a car on Boyd between Wall and San Pedro.
Lacey was definitely driving the car.
Kelly, you and John keep an eye on the car.
The detectives are on their way to examine the CMA 357.
Here you wait in the car, Steve, at noon today.
- What car? - Doesn't matter.
At noon, one of the thousands of cars goes to the Valley.
We're gonna take everything there, the car and everything, and we're gonna be there all night.
The driver of the stolen car escaped, describing the following.
- Mark, take the car.
Did you hear about New Moon's car?
Let's take a look at your car, then.
To the car?
So... $400 for the old car.
So, we had a new car, a new trailer... and a $7,646 mortgage.
The lady asked me to drive the car to the house.
The car and the trailer are gonna be like this.
The trailer turned over and dragged the car off the mountain.
Car brakes. Left.
Car brakes.
We're gonna start the car.
We'll take the car to town and bring the tow truck in the morning.
Car and trailer wash is another $5.00.
So the car can be disconnected and driven.
Without my car, your trailer isn't much use.
Behind the car.
That's where the car's gonna be inspected and ready for the trip.
That night, I got in the car hoping to get away from this mess.
They left by car.
I have an apartment here. Put the car in the garage.
It's an unusual car.
Are you crazy? I took this car from the factory the day before the raid.
Since then, the car's been standing here.
You're gonna put the prey in the car.
You'll come to us when we're in the car.
I'm telling you, they were in two cars.
I got blindfolded, but when the car stopped, I heard that the other one kept driving.
You're not leaving in this car.
Ryton, get their car.
You're so obnoxious! It was Angelo in the car with the prey, wasn't it?
And what makes you think he was in the car?
Don't forget that this machine is causing destruction.
Shut down the cars.
Imagine what it would be like if they owned cars like this submarine.
Start the cars.
Start the cars.
Turn the cars on!
Delusion of cars.
Start the cars.
All cars, especially in Times Square... look for Peter Denver.
Peter, Peter, I left the dogs in the car.
The great little car.
One day you're gonna go inside one of those imported cars--
- Well, looks like it's a good car.
Why don't you get the car right away?
By the way, who told you I was selling a car?
I stopped by the gas station and said I was looking for an American car.
You're selling a car, aren't you?
I put my things in the car and I left.
So you're not buying a car?
That's why you've been trying to sell her car for a month.
I'm selling agricultural cars."
So, about the farm machines...
Get that purse back to the precinct and get the car off the road.
Do you know how to drive?
Do I know how to drive?
Until Bond Street, along Bruton Street, crashed the car on Adams Row, and then returned to Haunslow through the pipe.
Do I know how to drive?
Next Friday at 9:30, the cross will be picked up by a Humber machine.
The car will then go to London Airport.
All these police cars and code names can only draw his attention.
Code names, police cars...
- Nice car, Jaguar.
He told me he was selling cars.
What kind of car salesman would agree that Jaguar has one back drive carburettor?
Not enough to start a car.
New car, mink coat.
There'll be another one outside, in the car.
If Wheeler shows up, whoever's in the car is calling upstairs, and the other two are gonna arrest Wheeler when he gets out of the elevator.
A new car, a mink coat and no watch.
She told me about the car troubles, and the mechanic checked the distributor.
My car didn't start that night because you did something to it?
He bought me my stuff and my car, and he rented me a nice apartment.
My partner's gonna follow you, and I'm gonna change who's in the car.
Get down to the car and drive around town for a while.
I'll get in the car and you get upstairs.
If you were in the car, I'd have arrested him by the elevator like Ekstrom wanted.
Are they in the car?
Tomorrow I'll drive the car somewhere else.
We'll both drive the car tomorrow.
Parked cars, alleys.
Same thing with the car.
When I was passing the car.
- Shut up and get in the car.
Give me the keys to Wheeler's car.
I got him back in the car.
The car's gone.
I think Paddy's killer was in the car, sitting next to him.
Throwed out of the car at the intersection of Third and Wilmore Street half an hour ago.
Police officer on radio: vehicles 49 and 60,
Yeah, two more cars.
- The patrol car's right behind Wheeler's car.
You think they know it's Harry's car?
Here, that car over there, that's the key to the trunk.
When I shoot, hide behind the car.
- I'll get the car.
Yeah, you know, I come home every day to hear the sounds of the washing machine, the electric dishwasher of the kitchen combine and, of course, the grunting of the wife.
Mr. Jeffrey, I'm an uneducated woman, but I'll tell you one thing, when a man and a woman meet and like each other, they have to come together, bam, like cars run into each other on Broadway, not study each other under a microscope.
Killed by a car?
Not really, I'm still in pain and I can barely breathe without... this terrible car...
Fairchild was a great chauffeur, and he was as impeccable as the eight cars he had in his care.
Dad said there's a fire on the car.
And you started all the cars and closed the doors?
Eight cars! One would be enough!
Okay. Next time you start a car, leave the gate open.
I'll get them out of the car and take them upstairs.
We'll come to New York by car, have a drink at the bar, and then we'll go out for dinner.
By my car.
First you lie under the car looking for some candle, and now you're judging a tennis fight on an empty court... you look beautiful, Sabrina.
Okay. Let her take the car and come by herself. Give her David's car.
I don't mind, but not in my car!
Contact Micheau and order her a car in Paris.
Car..................................... And 1,500 of Larrabi's privileged shares for your father.
I'm gonna go check the car.
We have a car.
Will you trust me to drive? To Mobran, that's all.
I just never had the money to buy a car.
We had to trade a big luxurious car for a limp.
No wonder there are so many cars today.
Maybe there's been an accident. How did Mr. Delasal drive?
He didn't have a car that day, the women took it to Nyor.
What about the car?
This is the professor's car, he's examining the headmistress upstairs.
I have my own car.
Luttyohan, get in the car!
I'll see you in the car in an hour.
Another officer got out of the car on the way.
- Car?
Call me a car.
But then get in the car and... on the road!
- We can take my car.
- Well, yeah. Put the car down, I'll track it down.
- Is the car okay? - Yes.
There's a Christmas party at the studio, and that idiot stole your car...
- He borrowed my car.
What kind of friendship did you feel when Big Brain left your car on your lawn and brought the police on Christmas Eve?
Let's get a lot of cars ahead of you, and the drunks are gonna stop by all night.
I think it's best if I wait in the car.
I'll take Monty's car.
He's actually accusing me of murdering a little studio actress who was with him in the car the night of the accident.
- In my car.
He seemed like a car with a shape of an animal... built by a mad engineer.
Call the car.
I'm having trouble with my car.
Someone offered to buy me a car, but I'm terrified of cars.
I'm gonna ask my brother Freddie for a car or you're gonna call me when it's sad.
These are the girls I was talking about. Well, you want to get in the car?
Can't you wait five minutes? I'll drive you in the car. - I'll just put my shirt on.
In one book, he says he's driving in a car and he's got eyes on him.
- Come on, the car's waiting!
I've got a car standing by the sidewalk.
But there's a car around the corner.
- I've got a car there.
Yeah, we'll find you a car with a driver.
You're not afraid we're gonna get stolen.
There's his car.
Cookie, find the cars, and I'll meet you there at 8:00 tonight.
Go to the end and get your car on the right side.
You put the car on the left side.
I was in one of those cars... and Buzz, one of those guys, he got in the other car... and we drove very fast... and then I jumped out before the car reached the edge.
I heard his car.
Does it look like it's his car?
It works like a car.
- The choice of villa is a very personal matter. - My car's right there.
- Where's your car? - There she is.
Not many cars.
Why does your son always have to deal with these old cars?
Looks like I didn't sell the car.
- Calvin Wiggs' car!
The construction of human faces is very diverse, and it is impossible to calculate the number of options on a single machine.
Someone's hanging around my car.
It's not your car!
We're looking for a car.
In Calvin Wiggs' car.
Flying cars.
Stay in the car.
They must have gone straight to the car.
- He tried to kill me in the car.
Car! ..
We'll take the car, we'll go to Mexico, we'll get married before you have a chance to change your mind again.
We can take the car and go to the beach.
- Car's here, love.
My car broke down.
My wife took our car today.
- Why don't you buy a new car, Pat?
Wally, can you push my car?
I'd push her, but Lou took the car today, and I have to go downtown.
- No, I'd better take him in our car.
No, there's no car in front of the house.
My car broke down ten minutes from town.
I didn't notice your car when I came in.
You can leave the car if you care so much.
I left the prescription forms in the car.
I have a patient in my car, knotty periartitis. I'm in a hurry.
Maybe if we put him in the car...
- All the cars!
Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!
And I thought maybe the car was in there.
I'll give you a fridge or a dishwasher for the wedding, whatever you want.
Hey, that car's a big shot, huh?
They're great cars, though, aren't they?
Take the car.
Benedict, I'm going to get the car.
It's time for you to go, Jett, and fix this car.
Luz flew on another plane, and Geordi and Juana took the car!
They're driving.
New car, great apartment...
Something about wealth, a house on Park Avenue, cars every day of the week.
One outside, one with a machine gun in the car.
So when the car comes...
If you put the car on the corner, you can see the horses going through the corner and coming out straight.
I can only watch the races from the car.
He knew it was hard to get to the track, so he left his car and walked.
Where is he? I've been listening to the radio in the car since four o'clock.
You're working too? I follow cars, I call a cab, or I put time on the clock...
- Order the carriage of Mademoiselle's luggage into my car and give me the bill. - Nice to meet you.
- I'm calling a search engine, can you hear me?
They were in the car, and they got so together... that I couldn't tell where it ended and Snookie started.
Do you think she wasn't gonna get away from you or run into a car?
She says the night is hot and she started her car, and the engine says,
And then we stopped the car, got out... and sat under a huge, tall tree.
All right, get in the car.
I'll meet you at the car.
Oh, how she's gonna be impressed by this car.
All cars, take the Sports Center ring immediately!
Mrs Jenkins' car!
To tell you the truth, if I were you, I'd jump out of the car, too.
- There's no car in the garage.
She walked, the car was in repair.
Sorry the car broke down, you could have picked me up at the station.
He puts it in the car.
- Aren't you gonna stop the car?
The car's gonna be fine here.
- Oh, shit, I forgot my bag in the car.
You're saying you don't remember the color of the car?
You're gonna live it again, an hour after an hour, right up until the moment you saw the license plate of that car.
I just realized that if I want to get the number of that car, I'm gonna have to see Laura die again.
No, I think it's useless, Mr. Hurley. I'm convinced I haven't seen the license plate.
I was told you remembered the license plate, Mr. Edwards.
Aren't you gonna stop the car?
The car's gonna be okay here.
- Oh, shit, I forgot my bag in the car.
This is the number of that car, Mr. Shea.
I felt guilty because I didn't go to the car to get Laura's pussy.
And if your car number, by chance, isn't KTY478 then we'll see each other.
The car's waiting for you at the back door.
Stolen a car.
He drives a car with a house that follows him like a goat.
Hey, little wiener woman!
It's a car.
I'll send a car.
In the same car.
There's the car.
Andy took this car that Dad gave him for 21 years.
I was only 17, no driver's license, but Andy wanted me to drive.
Just a few steps from the car.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Does she have enough numbers to put in her car?
They reserved a place for you on a commercial flight to New York and sent a car to take you and a young lady to the airport.
Your car will be here soon.
Car's outside.
I spent midnight running your data through the computer machine.
So we drop the helicopter and take Pierre's car.
I'm gonna get a car for the guys.
Are you saying this car of yours works?
How many people do you need to drive this car?
The client wants the car back.
Excuse me, sir, but it's 10 o'clock. Your car is waiting to take you to the airport.
Yes. He slammed the car door and pinned my finger.
In my car.
The car's waiting for you.
Sand in the wheels of our car!
Get in the car and don't hesitate.
There's a car waiting for us.
Somehow, his car was hit by a high-voltage line.
- Is there a car waiting for you?
- The burglars don't leave the cars far away.
Can you get me a car? I have to go to Lafford Hall.
Don't worry, it's my car, and I do what I want.
What do you know about cars?
It's a beautiful car, though.
It's easier for cars. Sit here and honk.
I know how you got this car!
Where did you want to go in this car?
Calm down, get in the car. Let me go, let me go!
The car from the dump!
Can you give me a ride in your car?
What's the use of having a car, staying in luxury hotels wandering around the world alone?
A slutty car, you've been dreaming about it for a long time.
You have no right to search my car without a warrant.
I didn't know the car was touching back.
My car is broken.
You have a lot more to worry about than a car.
Her fingerprints are all over the car, and maybe that's what's on the body.
Get out of the car, Tammy.
Miss Plimsall is waiting in the car, with pills and warm cocoa thermos.
Sir Wilfried, the luggage in the car, we have 20 minutes before the train.
He stood right in the middle of the road and tried to stop the car.
Can we take the car?
I think we should get in the car, take Mona and get out.
Take the documents to the car and my wife's keys.
And the car keys?
Take me to the car.
Leave the car there and go back on foot to the dock. There's a boat there.
- We sell cars, motors.
Unfortunately, ours are meant for cars, they're much smaller.
The main office isn't gonna send us a car.
Motoroeller's a great thing, but he's not a competition.
The car's busy, the husband's busy, too.
- Yeah, I'm with the car.
If we were big, we'd jump in the car.
Get in the car!
Daddy's car!
Tiburzis, it's my dad's car!
You're not driving?
But the car was near the scene, right?
Arai, the car Masada sent has arrived.
She just left in that car!
He invited me into the car and said that if I developed this compact device, he would give me a government contract.
So all we have to do is put people in cars and wait.
Wait a minute, guys. Everyone has regular radio in their cars.
Now! Send the cars to the airport.
26 cars are on standby.
No car's gonna be any closer on her tail than a block away.
There was a car parked in the alley. I had to sit in it and wait. This time, 30 seconds.
Here. Put this on and get in the car.
The car looks a lot worse.
The cars stay on the street and then on foot.
Of course, the least is a first-class car, monsieur.
Monsieur Lyachall, as far as the car is concerned.
My car's downstairs.
Gaston, I'm dying to go for a ride in your beautiful car.
To prove it, I'll drive you to a tea party at Versailles Palace. Would you like that?
Now you want to take her in your car to Versailles for a tea party.
What about the car?
She needs a car and a driver.
The house, the car, the servants, the clothes and myself.
Cops bring him in in a patrol car, under the influence of sirens from Beverly Hills.
They're some lower creatures to him, almost like cars.
The car...
Yes, sir. The car can wait for you.
Wait, Major Wrona will send a car for you.
Our car will be here in a few minutes.
My car's over there.
Come on, get in the car.
I'll take the car, we'll drive along the coast and stop by the beach.
Let's get in the car.
1400-- make of the car you tried to steal-- steal?
It's me, I'm the bastard, I got in the car, and then I ran away.
Let's get behind that car...
- The car that passed was blown up.
- With the car. However................................................
Was she thrown into a car or put in advance?
The captain wants to find out who was in the car with Linnecker.
In a car that exploded at the Mexican border, a large contractor, Rudolph Linnecker, and a dancer from a nightclub, died.
A man can't drive in his car anymore?
In my car.
Stop that car!
Stop that car!
- This is Howrd Franz's car.
He was driving in his car.
Sergeant asked me to give you the car keys.
Eight checkers of dynamite were planted in the car.
I couldn't go to the motel. My car is known.
Schwartz is driving your car.
She's in the car.
She got into her car and went to the Golden Gate Park, it's five miles away.
Judging by the speedometer of her car, she drove 94 miles.
Her car's gone.
What car?
You could have found an address in my car.
But you didn't know which one was mine?
No, I knew what your car was like.
Where did you get this car?
- This car...
Then I'll get the car here.
- Anyway, someone ransacked his car in the parking lot...
- Nice car.
You own a car number 20 EV 06, right?
The car's on its third day.
Where do you keep your car keys?
- They're always in the car!
Yeah, what's the story with the car?
Get in the car.
Don't forget to wash the car today.
I left my purse in the car.
Car? Julien could, of course, forget to wash it.
Did you wash the car yesterday?
Then in the car...
You're looking at that woman in the car!
- Is this car gonna go?
It's okay, they're gonna have a fireworks here right now. Wait for us in the car.
Maybe the car's full of stolen goods.
What if they stole the car, too?
There's a car and there's something in it...
Why not, we're in a car!
They want to sell something. They're in the car.
It's in the car, one minute.
We need to freshen up that stinky car a little bit!
- The camera that's in the car.
I'll take care of these three, and you'll take care of the car.
- Write down the license plate!
And at least two cars... no, more like, three...
Get in the car! - You're leaving?
I'll take the flashlight from the patrol car.
Lots of patrol cars with their lights on. I stopped to see, but I never saw anything.
Go to the car and tell the guys on the radio that we're leaving.
And now? Since they first started sending radio messages, we've developed a language computer, a machine that translates any language into our language.
Mrs Trent, stay by the car. Staying here alone?
Yes, sir. Stay with the car.
But there were two left in the car.
The ones you left at the car.
I put her in the car.
- Prepare for re-entry. Stop the cars.
Prepare for re-entry. Stop the cars.
Stop the car, get on the ground.
- Stop the car.
Citizen, will you take the car?
My car's waiting for me.
Do you want to go for a ride?
- Can you drive?
Can you give me the car keys?
Paul, give me the car keys.
Wait, the Italian has a car, too.
Come on, Charles. Let's go to the big car.
I'll drive like a devil's driver.
- You need a car, don't you?
- The only way you need a car is if things don't work out well.
- You're chasing girls by car?
I prefer old cars and a secure life.
I'm sure this is Professor Alexi's car.
Did your car break down?
Etienne, the car's waiting.
Now... this car, as you can see, is stamped with two-and-a-half ounces of briquettes not covered with frosting.
Every car cuts 48,000 briquettes a day...
It's my favorite car.
- Okay. Brother Carter, take over his car.
- Ooh. - Well, then, I've got a car on the street.
Put the car back in place and put it online.
You must find that this machine saves you a lot of energy.
He's got a three-wheeled car.
Keep your eyes open, Trascott. Don't miss the young Mr Stanley's car.
Hurry up, Father, I've been looking for a car for a long time, so I had to walk to the garage.
Careful, there's a sick girl in the car.
It's six o'clock. Albert doesn't like driving at night.
Don't leave her in the car.
In Paris, the apartment, the car and everything.
Sleep without pajamas, but 15 kilometers on foot is too far, especially if you push a car.
I saw his car outside.
There's a car outside.
It's a joke, we'll laugh in the car.
Your friends took the wrong guy when they put me in the car.
There's just been a report of this car being stolen...
It was at that moment that Mr. Thornhill managed to escape from the people who wanted to kill him, and when they were chasing him, he naturally had to drive as far as he could, given the circumstances.
Mrs. Townsend, Mr. Thornhill was detained last night. He was driving a drunken car, by the way, stolen.
Mrs Babson's car.
Mr. Thornhill told us he was brought to this house last night, supposedly your husband's friends got him drunk and put him in a car.
Carjacking, drunk driving, assaulting an officer, lying to a judge, and now breaking into a house.
A possible motive for the murder arose when it was discovered that Thornhill had been tried earlier today by Glen Cove for drunk driving in a stolen car.
I'm a car thief, a drunk driver, and a murderer.
When we got to the station, I saw two of them come out of the police car.
I'll take the car.
There's a car downstairs!
Stop, car.
Stop, car.
Stop, car.
Stop, car.
Maybe. It's the fastest car, you know.
This guy became her. We're not cars.
I'm not a car.
So you don't need a car.
Car?
- We need a car.
- Yeah, Nellie Weinmeyer's car.
They're here to pick up Nellie Weinmeyer's car.
My car's on the road.
Take over his territory and we'll drive his cars.
As old Bugatty said, "My cars should run, not stop."
My car is happy with the opera.
Mine's in the car.
Beautiful car!
American car.
- Selling cars.
- Is the car near?
Isn't your car here?
I hate taxi drivers who are afraid to scratch a car.
How do you like driving in a stolen car?
It was stupid to get on that car again.
- The car.
The keys are left here in the cars.
Either look for a bigger car or a smaller girl."
It's cold in the car.
Could've fallen in the car, it was very dangerous.
Quickly, build cars to replace the photograph and article.
The porter said he was asking for a rental car.
I sent a car after him, it must be 150 kilometers.
Besides, you know very well that you get to say goodbye. It's enough to admit that you drive worse than him.
You left your father's letter in my car the other day.
One night we were driving in a car and I kissed her passionately.
They're perfect for these machines.
Come with me, I'll take a look at you in the ambulance 'cause that's the kind of thing you don't want to do.
Only football players, of course, but everyone else is on cars.
- It's a big responsibility. Leave them there in the car.
- I'll go in the car with her.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - No, I'm not! All I know is the sound of Alberto de Matteis' car.
Everyone saw you with me, getting in the car, coming late at night.
She didn't even have a car, you know who it was?
Anna-Marie, look at this gorgeous car!
It's not a car, it's an apartment.
There's a signora asking me to take them for a ride.
Whose car is this? Yours?
Paparazzi, do you want to do this? Get out of the car!
Excuse me, sir, is that an American movie star in the car?
Wait for me in the car.
I'll go myself and you sit in the car.
Get in the car.
Another 200 have been given to you by the lady who came by car.
On Sunday, I saw a car with our town number... and I wanted to go home so badly that I even cried.
I bought a car, I got an apartment.
Paparazzi, get in the car.
Just reminding you, I drive very fast... even though I don't have an English car.
Are you comfortable in my car?
Paparazzi, leave your car, take your dad to the hotel.
- There's the car.
No, wait for the other car, we've got a bite.
- Get in the car!
Get out of the car!
Please come with me. Get in my car, please.
Beautiful car!
He was found dead in his car tonight.
The cars are coming!
Sam knows better about cars than I do.
You bought yourself a new car.
- Okay, if you want, I can drive you.
I sold the car and gave up my golf club membership.
That's why we need expensive apartments, cars... and perfume, everything to make things work.
You're a good driver.
This time he took the neighbor's car, and then I never saw him again. He hasn't been home in a week.
Is that your car?
I slept in the car.
Fingerprints found in Freddie Miles' car, same as Greenleaf's apartment.
You think she's gonna need a car?
Now get in the car, miss.
Pollyanna, please get in the car.
How many times do I have to tell you to stay away from the fire truck?
Get out of the car, Amelia! I'm warning you!
- Tell Dr. Chilton the car's ready. - Yes.
Make sure the ambulance meets us.
Can I sell my car and buy another one?
What you can't do when you buy old cars is hurry.
I'll put your car in the garage.
This is the car that chose it for you. - How much?
How much will it cost for my car?
And if it's easier... then your car plus $700.
I'm taking the car, just prove it's yours.
- You think I stole this car?
No, she was seen in the car. She was leaving town. I saw the boss, by the way.
Why don't you get in the car and get out of here?
Have you thought about buying her a washing machine?
The cars.
He's got his own house and a car. It's a long car, it's long.
I'll see you in the car, okay?
Things in the car, one, and ready.
They're watching from the car. Not far from the sanatorium.
They're in there, get in the car.
See the lady at the white car?
Now she lives near Ravitza Park, rents a room and a car from one of her aunts.
He's got a car, though.
Monsieur's car is ready.
Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!
Bring my bag out of the car.
He got out of the car.
He went back into the car and crashed right into the wall.
- What about your car?
We spend time in the car to move. It wasn't fun at all. They spend most of the time at home.
Half an hour in the car.
They put a car full of people, and they don't know where to go.
Go on. That's where the car is going right now.
I got in the car and I started thinking that everything was okay, that I was gonna start working soon, and I had to give my mom a telegram.
Turns out I got into the wrong car.
The car was driving, the night was beautiful, and I dreamed I'd come to the souvenirs at the clinic, like I'd have a white, light office.
I put a locksmith in there. Because if I didn't provide them with housing, the cars wouldn't be carrying bread to the state right now.
Get in the car!
No car's coming.
When they buried my daughter's blood, the music played, and the cars stopped in the house.
I just told you we're leaving. But you didn't laugh... that we'd leave tomorrow on the pretext of a car ride...
No, I haven't decided yet, by train or by car.
That's the car.
We found this heel in your car.
In my car, things like this can stay for years.
I threw myself under a car.
And then I popped out in front of the car, and I pulled the brakes.
But why throw yourself under a car at 2:00 a.m.?
There's only three hours in the car.
There's nothing wrong with the car.
We don't even belong together. Stop the car.
Looks like you got a new car.
Take the car and let's go for a drink together.
Stop the car!
Let your doctors invent poisons for your arrows and your scientists invent war machines.
The creams of the German war machine, rested and ready, were to be on the edge of the attack.
Is that your car, gentlemen?
First thing in the morning, we knock off the truck and get another car.
- The only thing a German car with all its monumental foundation couldn't destroy!
I don't know what I would do without a car.
And in American. Can you believe we've won the most powerful war machine since Alexander Macedon! But now they're running the Boy Scouts.
I won't need a car.
- I'll put it in the car.
What about the cars?
- Is that your car? - Yes.
I'll send you a car later.
- Buy me a car.
- It's not hard on your car.
There's an overdrive on my car.
Take it easy here, it's better than in the car.
Arnaud took the car that hit a cop for a while.
Carjacking, driving without a license, riding a pedestrian, hiding from a crime scene.
I'm gonna go and see if he's in the car.
In a fancy car, it's like my dream.
Where did he get that car?
All these people, cars.
When Ichiro was small and I wore it on my back, he pushed me on my back, warning me that the car was coming.
But the car's headed for Hell Hall.
My car, if you didn't know...
Someone who's already known as the chairman of the Council of Ministers gets in the car.
- Get in the car.
I found the right cliff, I rented a car, and I went straight to him.
I drove up to the cliff and gave you full gas. And all of a sudden, the car stopped like it was dug up.
The car got up when the front wheels were already hanging over the edge.
I got out of the car, I was shaking.
Car's ready, señorita.
What if the car moves her?
The car will be there.
You're taking money from those cars?
The car's here.
Every machine counts, that elevator shouldn't rot in the grass.
Four are being collected, and three are being collected by the car.
Not like it used to be. Four by the car and three by the car.
The car doesn't stop.
He was alone on the island, his cars weren't crazy.
Don't be mad at me, those cars are truly sorry.
I was afraid it was the guy from the next car.
Delivered the car next door.
He's staying at the car...
Well, what are you waiting for? Why don't you put all this in the car?
No, put it in your car.
He's so handsome in his car!
- And my car?
There's only one car. You're not going on foot, are you?
- Yeah, people in the black car.
There's a lot of black cars in Paris.
For the driver's seat in the black car took his past.
And if he pulled over on Victor Hugo Street, it wasn't because he had a black car on his tail, but because he once had a date with hope.
She also told us to read Hell's Car.
I'll stay in the car with Eddie.
I don't think Mr. Shepman would approve of what's going on in his car either.
Get in the car and get out of here, which is the spirit.
- Thank you. There was a car...
Nastasia Borisovna, the car, follow me.
I'm leaving the hospital, I'm getting a specialty, I'm delivering the car to you.
Three tanks drank 300! And the fucking fighting car!
And we'll build a bridge, and we'll have 25 percent of the people, and the cars, and the drive comes up.
'Cause it's usually 20 to 40 minutes on average.
Guttiere, give me your car.
The car was sold.
We need to put a car in here.
What kind of car?
Run to the car, they're waiting for you.
- The new car is beautiful, isn't it?
You made her sell the apartment, spent $5 million on shops, and now you've bought a new car with the money that that poor woman gave you!
Califfo, great thing you did to buy this car.
I was having fun looking at cars and people coming out of the tram and the kids and the girls.
I was down the street in Mac's car.
- Can I borrow your car?
Sorry, your car's blocking the ambulance entrance.
I was just surprised when I found this in your car.
I think it's a flyer being put in cars in town.
He borrowed my car to visit the executor.
I think your car was near the Colosseum.
Who's Charles? He borrowed her car this afternoon.
Is the car badly hit?
Did you put the garage plates on the car?
Whose car is this?
And this young monsieur decided to drive a client's car without my knowledge.
I crashed an uninsured car.
What if I sold your car?
I just crashed the car!
These love machines, throw a coin and go!
A broken car? That's a good idea.
Since then, the wooden horses have been replaced by sports cars and candy has been replaced by late dinners.
- No, he's the only one in the car!
I love cars!
What if I gave her a car?
The car's cliché?
You see, Lieutenant Lawrence, my people are not familiar with the explosions and the cars.
There are three big... cars.
Like all cars.
Why don't I put on a raincoat and we'll take a ride in the car?
There's a man here who says you got hit by a car!
My son was driving.
She was hit by a car.
I can't tell you the day I finally realized a certain car was following us.
We were chased by a car, and we tried to get away from it.
- I didn't see the car.
I don't know if you're lying to me or not, or maybe you're crazy and I'm already, anyway, but I think it's the one who was chasing us in the car.
This car.
I'm gonna walk out of the car and talk to him face-to-face.
Please drive the car to the visitor's parking lot.
Mr. Humbert, I have to ask you to move the car.
Do you remember that car that chased us back then?
From here to our old car, 25 steps.
He got hit by a car, the driver of the hit-and-run escaped.
I'm a cook, driving a car.
I'll be back with the car in a minute.
And ever since then, it's just cars, offices, planes.
There's a car waiting for me downstairs.
You could've bought a car.
Do you have a car?
Yeah, I drive my cars around all the time.
I do American cars.
American cars are easy to drive.
Yeah, you're gonna buy an American car.
Wait, I'll shut the car down and shut it down.
There's a patrol car on the bridge.
Kids, come on. - We'll get the luggage from the car.
Step by step without one wrong move or a moment's hesitation... he was inexorably moving towards a new triumph in man's endless struggle with the machine.
And that's why he left everyone in a cloud of dust from his car.
Could you tell your husband to take the suitcases out of the car?
Looks like an ambassador's car.
Many people now have cars.
Cafe, yachts, cars.
He tried to start a car.
He can't start a car.
I think it's best if I drive you in my car.
I'll drive you.
- There was no car, Helen wasn't home!
Yeah, you fixed the car.
Get in the car.
Open the car.
Get in the car.
Dad, look, this isn't the car that almost hit us?
Get the car off the road!
- All right, get in the car.
All right, get in the car and drive slowly when I tell you.
We'll be waiting for you at the car.
This car is coming back!
Drop your weapon or we'll take out your car.
About cars.
The face of the car I triggered.
We'll send the car back tomorrow.
Okay, you promise to stay in the car while I talk to Helen Robinson?
Who's in the car with Sheriff Tate?
Hey, his car.
I got in the car and got out as fast as I could.
I got into a cotton-cleaning machine when I was 12 years old.
- Is that your red car outside? - Yes.
- You interested in cars?
I was driving after you and I saw you come in here.
- I'm moving the car.
Are you in the car? - I actually took a cab.
It's embarrassing, but my car's in repair.
There was a witness who said that he had seen the car of sisters Hudson, a black convertible from 1940 or 1941 en route to the west of Santa Monica Others, no information about the missing sisters has been received to date.
Inspector, there's a car parked right on the road.
You didn't drive.
I watched you get out of the car.
I watched you get out of the car.
But you noticed the car coming.
I managed to get out of the car and crawl up to the gate.
Account machine.
The machine needs economics, sociology, psychological data.
And don't convince me you can get out of the corner with a counting machine.
Well? I've been in the car all day.
Personally, I understand you. To think we were able to establish the number of the car.
At first, we thought the car was stolen.
All we found in the car were her fingerprints.
Maybe she wasn't even in the car in Nai that night. Maybe the third robber was driving the car, his hands were wearing gloves.
Some say they saw a guy driving a car, that he was alone. The others said there were two of them.
But since the newspapers published a report on this case, a guy has come to the police saying he remembers a woman driving a car.
It'll be faster on the phone than on the car.
There's a corpse of Teresa Delman at the bottom of his career in Sussi-en-Bri, in his own car.
But the traces of the car near the fence aren't my car.
I came by train. Those guys came by car.
What did you do? Shooting a police car.
I stayed in the car and saw nothing.
You were in the car, I'm sure it was cold. You lifted the glass, the car stood far away, the sound of the shot was almost unheard.
Listen, Fabienne, when they ordered you to stay in the car, they already knew.
Finally, she's giving me an address in Nai. I tie her up, jump in the car, and drive to Nai to warn you and Remy.
- Lend me your car. - What's the matter? There's no time right now. I'll try fast.
Time and Real Destruction in Space. ( Space and time machine)
Get in Konocchi's car.
- Nothing, stop the car.
And at dawn, the crew will board its beautiful steel machine, the plane.
I like driving.
But if I take you there by car, slowly, romantically and with pleasure, you'll be there just in time.
Let's go hide in the car.
The car will fall right under them.
No, wait till the car touches again.
Aren't we gonna take the car?
Nothing, but this car's been following us for a long time.
It's my car!
Let's go, get in the car.
- In the car.
- You bought a car?
- Does he have a car?
I wish we had a car.
Look, if you buy a car...
You can buy a nice used car here.
We're gonna have to sell the car to pay for the hotel.
And I wouldn't have to sell the car.
Watch the car!
Tell the master to help with Tom's car, he knows me.
It's not easy to drive, so I decided to buy a nice car.
- I've been selling four or five of these cars in a year. It's been 20 years.
And the IRS didn't get anything. When I sell a hundred cars, I'll take Maria to Tibet, Venice, wherever I want.
So, should I call the police? Did you just see your dad's car?
- You go through the mountains, you take the car. - Well, yeah.
How could I have anticipated such a rainstorm? My car isn't a ship.
This car is a holed ship, and the captain is an old fool from Italy!
Put the car in the garage, we'll spend the night there.
By the way, I saw his car at the door.
He was hit by a car last night when he was walking from a sick man. At the age of 16, I was broke.
In Misho's career, set up a block-- post, hold up all cars.
Stop the cars!
That's how all cars stop.
When the cars stop, we go home.
Don't stop the cars!
Turn the cars on.
Either get me out of the car now or drive me home.
Oh... oh... oh, I guess it happened when we got out of the car.
I left my car with Miss Avery right here, and now I can't find her or the car.
And they haven't found the car yet? Yeah.
Attention all service cars in square 49!
They're supposed to serve and protect... ba... they can't even drive.
Service vehicle AZ-7: to the harbour immediately! Pier 15, yacht Welby.
Attention, all service cars!
Car's ready!
He's like one of his cars: money, success, work.
Nice car, easy to squeeze 190.
That's where my car's gonna go around the world.
Car!
Hurry, brainless, before the whole car burns, put the fire down!
These fragile cars are like precious stones! Precious stones!
I have a problem with the car, I think, something very serious.
- Well... we drove pretty fast. All of a sudden, the car got carried away, and we pulled over.
It's weird, 'cause these cars are perfect.
You see, the braking system of these machines...
Yeah, keep an eye on the car, please!
We'll take him to the station, Rusconi's got a car downstairs.
You gonna drive?
I need a car.
What kind of car are you looking for?
As for the big car, no, I don't think so...
As for the white car, there are so many in the city.
White car... white car... car...
Wait till we get in the car.
If you're interested in this beautiful car, I'll give it to you even cheaper as a friend.
'Cause she's the one driving the car...
He sat next to her, grabbing the wheel, he turned the car.
Cars unload, scrub the counters, or...
I could buy you a car.
- You want to buy me a car, remember?
And another car for me.
You can use my car.
Keep an eye on the cars.
Go catch the car right behind us.
I'll hide the car.
Bring the car to the back of the desert.
Hey, stop the car.
Are you sure it was a stolen car?
He's got a car...
I came from a firm that makes cars...
- Cars?
Oh, the knitting machine.
I heard about this car, but I didn't see it at work.
You're not gonna make a bullet gun for my grandson in this car?
He said you had knitting machines.
Then we take the cars and we go show them.
Then, when the car is sold, we collect money, prepare invoices, reports...
"Drain the car and then I'll come with you."
Go and see if there's a car there.
I'll send another car for you.
So I think we can duplicate them and run them into embroidery cars and sell the whole line at $39, they're worth about 200 at Bonvit.
Car
I'm not buying a car.
- Give me the car, Shandor.
What, you don't want to buy yourself a horse or a car?
- Who? The man who stole your dog is in that little car.
A man who kidnapped a dog rented a car.
Besides, we don't have direct evidence that Artoff was the man in the car.
I've come to meet the Japanese consul. He put me in his car.
And wait for me in the car.
I'll see you in the car.
Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Get on the bus!
I think Mr. Max was going to town by car.
- Is Martha ready, too? - I think she's already in the car.
Stop the car and surrender.
Malaga, do you mind if I turn on the radio in your car?
It's not gonna make it on foot, and it's not gonna make it by car, it's just a boat.
I saw your car materialize.
Yes, and we've applied all our knowledge. To build this car.
At first, this car was just a judge and a jury, never wrong, and it was fair, and then we improved it, and we made it more sophisticated, until finally, there was an opportunity for radiation to master reason and influence people all over the planet.
The car did it for them.
For seven centuries, we flourished, and then a man named Yartek found a way to overcome the powerful influence of the machine.
But, of course, by then, the car had become a serious threat to you.
Now it's time to rebuild the car!
And besides, while the keys were hidden, I worked with this car, and I changed it so that if I put them...
If you install them, your car becomes invincible, and you can defeat them, and control the Wurds again?
If you help me find Marinus' keys, I'll give you access to your car when you hand over all the keys to me.
It's the noise of their space machine.
They'll come here with their cars.
Doomsday machine.
The Doomsday machine?
I don't have enough experience with these types of cars.
The Doomsday machine is designed to trigger itself automatically.
At the same time, our people were demanding more tights and washing machines.
That's the real idea of this car.
So, because of the automated and irreversible decision-making process that rules out the human intervention of the Doomsday machine, it's terrifying and easy to understand and completely probable and convincing.
I'm sorry we don't have a single Doomsday machine.
But the whole point of the Judgment Day machine is lost if you keep it a secret!
Dmitri, if this message is correct and the plane can bomb the target, it's gonna launch the Judgment Day machine?
You're not gonna help each and every one of us if the Doomsday machine works, are you?
You can't be sure these ignorant people will understand the car like our guys.
- There weren't any cars? - Nope.
They'll send a car for me.
- What kind of car is that? - Linotype.
That's the kind of stuff they put in the car and print different newspapers, books, or magazines. Look at this.
We all worked in different areas: theft of cars, break-in of safes, shoplifting, cohabitation with hookers.
Steva said we'd be looking for people in cars.
Twice she did it in the car.
Do you have a car? - Yes.
Don't worry about the car, traffic police chief is a friend of mine.
Now I'm all yours, get in the car and go to your nest.
The car...
- Arduini. - Yes, signora. - We don't have a car.
She just got her license... and then she's so distracted when she drives.
I still have the luggage in my car. Why?
You know what we're gonna do? We'll wait for them in the car.
Get in the car. I'm gonna go.
And the car?
- Whose car is this?
All right, get in the car, come on.
She broke down the car so we wouldn't talk.
Get in the car.
There's a black car over there!
Don't be afraid, armoured car, glass and tyres, bulletproof.
- My car! My car!
- Where did you steal the car?
- But... it's the mayor's car!
Give way to the real car!
Stay in the car, I'll find her.
I have to guard the car.
- My car!
I'll get your car back, your father won't know anything.
- I don't know. Come on, let's get the car back.
Good job. - You're gonna take the car apart? - You should've gotten better.
- We stole the car!
What? We stole the car.
Buddy decided to go for a ride, the car stuck to the rock, we couldn't get out.
If this opens up, my career is high! Where did you borrow this car?
They say it could have been done by American torchers. So we have to look for an American car.
I left the car nearby.
The gendarme returned the car!
With two cars! And why did we block it? Why?
- But, Commander, it's a powerful car.
They lost the car, they didn't find the painting. You can't catch anyone! No one!
Stolen a car?
- The car's open. Did you notice the plates? - There's dust.
This car...
- Is the car okay? - Yes.
Dad, I'll explain it to you. - He stole a car?
You know, I've been thinking... it's gonna be hard for you to drive a car, what to do...
First she stole the car, now she's giving up her father.
- Oh, my God! - You did great with the car.
You're almost as beautiful as your car.
I found it where your car was stuck. I thought...
I'm glad you brought the car.
- I don't know. - You don't have a car?
He didn't steal. Even the car, you know. He brought her back.
I'll be waiting for you in the car. You come when your mother falls asleep.
When you're at the scene of the accident... you have to bring them... and in some cases... you have to be ready to examine the car at the scene.
And you're gonna help with the car.
Pack my stuff and put it in my car.
Do you know anything about cars?
These Italian cars.
I'm so tired of you spying on me all the time. From your cross-examinations. Because you're checking my car's mileage.
I looked out the window and saw him. Drive the car.
He's gonna get in his Italian car and make his legs.
Get in the car!
So I bought a used car and a trailer.
When I woke up this morning, he was gone. And the cars, too.
That's why I had to work at the Poop to scrape money into a new car.
Well, next time I'm here on the way from Las Vegas. If I go around, my car's gonna break down.
Is my car ready?
The car broke down.
But you need money, you put it on the car.
What car?
A woman without a man, like a trailer without a car.
Well, the ring and the song and the car and Dino.
- Drive very, very carefully, my love.
I don't have to pay for the baggage in my own car.
Honey, it's really time for you to leave, or it's gonna be a steady flow of cars.
I'm here in my own house, a few feet away from cars and people.
Randall always talks about raiding a car or something.
They're taking things out of our car.
Okay. Come on. Get out of the car!
And my car?
She was last seen in a car with a young blonde.
He pinned two fingers on the car door.
The character of a person can be seen from his car.
The car from the movies, its owner isn't like that.
You can leave the car in front of the hotel gate.
Even if there's a lot of cars, park in the third row opposite the building.
She also drove 48 km today. In the car.
Not yours. The car's in your name.
The car's mine, the ticket's not.
But if the married lady is in a car near the Fortress walls tonight, then...
When we were living in that house, I always left the car in the factory garage.
Don't lose sight of that car.
"Be careful, your husband's coming," half of these cars would have ducked.
Car!
Screw the car!
For the car, I'm begging you!
- But Don Domenico has the car!
Oh, you have a new car!
Yeah, but your dress and my new car...
Where are you going? I'm in the car.
Go get the car ready, live!
What happened to your car?
On the 29th of every month, at exactly 11:00 a.m., a car came to the bank for a salary for a single firm.
You said you needed cars.
The first car was to move immediately to pick up the van after loading the money at the scheduled time.
Two cars waiting here. After the van gets here, she follows him.
Then three cars set up in the tail.
The first car will overtake the van and block the movement.
Two cars will force the van to turn left.
Three cars block escape routes.
Everyone gets in your car and goes to a deserted place.
There's my car.
The car is served, sir.
- And his car's even cooler.
If Courtman thinks he can catch me ruining my car, his mind becomes dumb.
There was a time when I picked my own car.
- Dobrick, the car, quick!
For once in my life, I'd like to sit in a car like this.
I'd still like to drive a car like this, for once.
Get in the car.
Get in the car.
You're in a car, go back.
Motorcycles and cars are all yours.
Jesus Christ, what army is this? The dead are driven by the car, and we're on foot.
On the left of the hospital, you'll find a van. Ambulance.
I got a new job-- washing cars in the house where he lives.
You mean he doesn't know you have his car?
You mean the food machine.
Actually, the car wasn't damaged, we were.
A car that can think for itself?
Well, she doesn't think like you or me, but she has to think like a car.
The car's been warning us for so long.
When we left Skaro, where did you get the car to take us?
He's got a wonderful machine that can do wonders, and it's taken away by a man he thought was primitive.
It was raining, it was a bad look, my car just couldn't stop.
We have to find a way to knock these cars out.
Your mind is locked in the car, no one believes your voice.
But remember that monster we pulled out of that car?
The car is about to enslave them.
I want them here when the last key is inserted and the machine gives me absolute power!
Yeah, and with this machine, he can control us all.
- Yartec can put the key in the car at any moment.
If he does, the car's gonna start, but as soon as it's in full power,
- You mean the car's gonna explode?
All the power of the machine will spread across the planet.
I don't believe a man was created to be driven by cars.
Machines can create the law, but they don't do justice, it's only human.
Well, okay. If you don't want to get in the car, put your shoes on.
- His car was waiting.
He's in the car, he's in the car, and he's in the car.
Two cars, eight men.
Yes... a deadly car and billions.
There's a positive danger in this car.
When these creepy cars aren't allowed to ride the roads!
- He took my car.
A machine capable of creating machines like this.
We're here to save you from the cars.
If you stay here, more cars will come.
She stopped the car.
on the car.
With the Rills and their cars.
The cars are coming!
They sent cars to lie to us.
But if you see the cars again...
It's our only defense against cars.
Space car's here.
- We had these cars, you know...
Perhaps it comes from a thinking creature, or from a machine that it controls.
Hey, look under your feet, don't walk the car!
You don't care about me. Stupid. In his huge car.
I don't know if you know this, but my car had a little accident yesterday...
There's a fortune in this car!
It's the best choice! Wait, monsieur, remember. A man is suspected at customs, not a car.
- Car number?
Of course, right in the car.
To drive a car like this...
A taxi? What about the car?
It doesn't matter. Like a car, there were no accidents, no malfunctions?
Lulu. Come down. Put the car in the garage.
The car's coming down.
Stop the car, stop it!
I'm telling you, stop the car!
They stole the car!
All right, let's go to the cars.
Sabotage. That bastard ruined the car.
Can I answer that? It's so original, in the car.
Stop the car, I can't hear you!
Why? To stop this thief from stealing your beautiful car.
Let's not have such a beautiful car, but it's calm.
Yes. It's all in the same car.
Since we can't check all the cars, we'll be looking for familiar faces.
Put the car there, please.
Look, you asked me to move the car...
Wow, they changed the car.
However, I will deliver the car to Bordeaux, your Cadillac.
Yeah, I got it, but I'm buying a car next month!
And the screams of the workers and the sounds of the gloppit-glomp, which make these machines, we almost like them.
In the vault of the car's gloppit.
0.4604166666667 The machine is all over you.
Isn't that right? The car's worth it.
I'm in the car if you want, I'll give you a ride.
Get in the car!
Shreder, the car and the band.
- Get in the car.
- Whose car is this?
Don't be. - Of course, of course. My car's waiting for you downstairs.
I'm counting on this car, and it's gonna squeeze 200.
Follow this car.
It's gonna take 4 or 5 to start a car.
Oh, I can't believe it. Look at this car.
Yeah, it's a nice car.
That's the kind of car I'm willing to die for.
I know how to drive any car.
I'll drive my car! And I'll beat you!
Car, car.
Step away from the car, please.
Please step away from the car.
Get away from the car! Get away from the car!
Get away from the car!
Get away from the car!
Yes. Keep an eye on the car number two.
Now about 50 miles by car number three, the transmission's gonna fall off.
In about five seconds, car number four is gonna fall apart.
What's next? Car number five. Her engines are gonna fall off.
Car number five!
Hezekaia, look what happened to the car.
I'll get another car.
I got it in the car.
So do you want us to tie your car up, or do you want to be our guest of honor?
Where's the car?
Where's the car?
Start the car.
And you left me no choice, so I had to sneak out in Faith's car.
We have a lot of champagne in the car.
My apologies. There's a polar bear in our car.
If you don't get out of the car immediately, I will personally feed you to this bear.
Yeah, there's a lot of bumps in there. Can I show you that you completely ripped off the roof of the car?
Faith's car broke into leadership and is moving through Russia.
Max! Let's get to the car!
Webber, the car company that built Leslie's car...
Beautiful car.
Let's get in the car!
I'd better go check the car.
Turn off the car.
This car is rented.
- I can't start a car.
If it's a rare occasion for me to go out on a date, they have to go to our backyard to pick me up in the car and bring me in no later than 10:00 p.m. and then go home from that cup.
I can take my mom's car.
Rule One. We're not getting out of the car. Rule Two.
Now remember, nobody gets out of the car.
Lib, you said we wouldn't get out of the car!
We're already in trouble. If you're going back, I'm getting out of the car right now.
I'd like to know if you can send one of the patrol cars there.
- But I'd appreciate it if you could check it out. - I'll send a car there right now, Mr. Mannerin. - Thank you, Sergeant, thank you!
Just one word! She doesn't have to do that anymore. We're not in the car anymore.
My car was crying...
And remember, we're only gonna be five minutes and nobody's gonna get out of the car.
Do you play here all night? No, we were still driving mom's car. Yeah, we're playing Gypsy.
Car! Run to the car!
So the license plate.
It's all in the cars! Now!
- Is your car downstairs?
In my car.
Come on. Let's get your car.
- Can I call a car?
Well, Mr. Guha, will the car be ready tomorrow?
Take the suitcase out of the car and take it to my Jeep.
By the way, your car's still not ready.
My car isn't Rolls Royce.
After all, a man is also a type of car, demanding periodic refuelling.
So we have to stop the cars.
Stop cars?
It's a signal to the cars to stop.
- Wait! Shouldn't we let the cars go?
It's a car, you know?
It's an unforgivable method of stopping the car.
Give me the car keys.
- Franco gave you his car?
- You don't like American cars?
Get in the car!
It's better to leave the car.
We see a car entering the town of central France.
Burn the car like we're burned.
Make up your mind, or I'll catch the car without you.
- Say, baby, do you like the car?
Let's get back to where we started: Detective. With cars, revolvers, nightclubs.
- He's driving all night. She comes to the sea this morning. He gets out of the car and dies.
What did you do with the money that was in the car?
All questions to the owner of the car.
These cars are already in my cookies!
You know how hard it is to live in Paris, cars everywhere, noise...
- Let's go in your car.
Let's get upstairs and I'll put the car in for now.
Daddy and Uncle Max are gonna drive all the way to Switzerland?
The car broke down, Captain?
Fix the captain's car.
All right, get in the car, we'll escort you to the festival.
Can we get the car?
I'm afraid the car won't help.
Three of his fire trucks have already been smashed, burned or knocked over.
Three thousand cars, three-storey.
- I can't? Where's that car?
The fact that your car got into this convent is pure luck.
There's nothing random about my car.
I see you found the car.
...we don't have a time machine anymore.
It's an excellent car.
You know, I'm starting to like the idea of being part of a crew on a time machine. Crew?
He destroyed my time machine!
There were no time machines in 1963, and they didn't know anything at all!
So it's really a time machine?
Our time machine will soon follow them.
We know what this car is meant for.
When I'm done with this... car, I'm sure they'll free you.
I may be able to do something about this car, but I need time!
Do you call cars "The Badlands"?
Doctor. He's trying to break down your ammonium gas machine!
We got a message from the car.
And there's a Rill car outside waiting to kill, too.
If you touch her, the door will open, leaving you to the mercy of the car.
Stay there and die, go outside and be killed by a car, or surrender!
Cars are our enemies.
Look, we've subjugated these cars.
Flying car!
You place flying cars as if they were onions, and you let them go.
The car's flying in the air with a soldier caught up in it.
I'm very glad to hear it, Doctor. Because I intend to build this flying machine.
I've got half the people getting ready to make you a car.
I'm afraid this machine won't work.
So, if your car doesn't work, Doctor, I intend to send you off without it.
Better than half a dozen of your stupid flying cars.
I demand your car as part of my share!
Look, if they took a time machine to Troy, it's still inside.
Okay, tell me, uh, did you think about... flying cars, hmm?
A car with a bomb is coming!
It all depends on how long this car's gonna be there.
Then you're gonna sneak up on the Rills' car from behind.
The car will help you.
She's not gonna die until the car's out.
Yeah, when we destroy this car, we're gonna run!
Have you seen any other cars?
More cars!
Where are the cars?
This is a machine for the study of the Momental Movement in Time and Space (TARDIS).
Remember, they have the same car, and they can follow us.
We have to protect ourselves from cars.
Even cars!
Then you wouldn't have to be afraid of cars.
Then come out and destroy the cars, and Maaga will be happy.
Maaga would be happy if you destroyed the cars.
You give me your gun, and you go and take Maaga's gun, and then we can fight the cars together.
He tried to trick you, just like the cars.
Get in the car, quick!
- What happened, the new car...
All right, I'll see you at the car in ten minutes.
His luggage was taken to his car.
Here's my car.
Anyway, I don't see his car.
Just like I have... in my own eyes and ears, and cars lie less than people.
We're gonna connect it to computers around the world like a central machine.
Okay, now this car I call Votan.
Seriously, sir, have you invented a machine that can think?
I think you're saying that this machine can think like a human being.
- This car is barely capable of...
Cars can't control a man.
Your contact was hit by a car.
And that there was a backup team in my car-- five or six people.
She'll be waiting nearby in the car.
He said she'd be waiting in the car nearby.
So, there's a third car stolen from one area.
And you've noticed that in the yard where the theft took place, there's a lot of trashy cars on the street. Yes.
And steal a car that's on the street, isn't it easier than a garage?
Hurry up and fill the car. Don't hop in the tail.
Maybe we should cover our car.
Did you buy a car?
Everyone who doesn't have a car wants to buy it.
And everyone who has a car wants to sell it, and they don't just do it because you're not going to have a car when you sell it.
Is that your car?
- I want to steal a car, and you get in the way.
Trying to steal my car!
And this very man who got into your car also asked for a Belomor, and then bought a friend cigarette,
- Yeah, I do business stealing cars.
The perp tried to hit the same car twice.
I think he wanted to steal your car.
Why did he stick to your car?
Let's set up surveillance on your car!
When your car's stolen.
The car in my wife's name, the gift is mine, you don't have anything.
Yeah, and the day before yesterday, the car smelled like gasoline.
I.D.'s for the car.
Prosecutor? I'm not asking where that car came from, why there's no ID.
I stole this car.
Why did he want to steal your car anyway?
- Is Yuri Ivanovich driving?
How I stole a car with a car crane!
Tell me, is there anything new about the car?
I didn't sell the first car.
And... with the second car, the injustice came out.
Don't get hit by a car!
Tell me, have you heard that the car was stolen again today?
Since when did you start stealing cars from honest people?
Uh, no! This is Stelkin's car, and he's a bribe.
It's the car of a famous scientist!
This is Stelkin's car, and he's a bribe.
That you stole cars from one of the crooks and sold them to the other?
It says: "Every person has the right to personal property. Every man has the right to have a car, to give books... money!
He sold cars, but gave money to the kids.
Why don't you regret your car?
Stop the car.
Would you give me 500 ambulances?
Get out of the car for five minutes.
- No, four cars.
Our car's under fire.
What are you still doing in the car?
- Where's the car?
- How many cars did he steal?
- Got a car?
- Get in the car, Lester.
Officer, you know... get in the car...
Car Cemetery.
- Got a car?
I need a car.
Find Jack, have him bring the money and bring the car.
Jack, where's your car?
Me and the car, one whole.
Where's the car?
- Bring the car.
Bubber, let Jack go... if he's okay... I'll give him the car and no one else will touch him. Can he?
