Kids can get almost anything in the yard as long as they can afford it.
















...you can clean up anything in the yard...

It's easy to get things like this because the warders are blind to them.
With other things, it's harder.
The harder it is to get through security, the higher the price.

It's the most expensive thing.



Kids love peanut butter sandwiches.

Mm-hmm. The girls will hold your hand if you have peanut butter and jam.

You know, when you sit with your friends, you play video games and you have fun. And if you eat such a sweet sandwich before you do that, then it's really cool.










And the kids will always be able to get these sweet buns.





Every night after school, me and Mickey and Fatty make baked sandwiches for two hours, or all three of them.













Damn it!








So when he, uh, asked for help, I couldn't say no.







In one week, the fisherman earns more than he earns for two years.





Hey.
Is it true you have a ring that makes you invisible?







So my cousin's big brother's best friend's sister's sister's gonna bring them in this afternoon. I know how stupid that sounds, but I'm afraid to take them myself.












When she asked me for the first time, I said, "No way in the world."

I'll help if you let me put your hand in your back pocket for 15 seconds.


Deal!






















Looks like your cousin's big brother's best friend's sister fucked us. - Us?

















I thought we could be friends.
Really?
















- Really? - Yes.
I told you we're friends, and friends help each other.
















You're gonna meet your big brother's best friend's sister again.


































































Johnny says he fucking refuses. - Tell him he's my best employee. And ask me what the hell it is.
Hey, Johnny. Frankie said you were one of his best employees, and what's the problem?





Ask me if I said we were friends.
- He didn't say you guys were friends, did he? - I did.

- Tell him I can't see my friend suffer.






















It must have been disgusting that his so-called friend betrayed him. And how my brother treats him. I just wanted to support him.



I didn't want to believe her, but deep down, I knew she was telling the truth.


I thought that would never happen to me. That my best friend would betray me.




















































It doesn't matter how many children have been punished.






I know he's your friend, but he's our friend, too. He's not my friend anymore, okay?








Look, I got a free catcher, cracked Nick's team and forced Nick to turn his back on one of his best friends.



I think I got a good return on the investment. Isn't it?




- Shouldn't you be with your new friends?

















You set up your best friend.
He's not my friend anymore.


I don't think that's a good idea.





Nice work, kid.




It's French. Qualitative work, kid.















































My friend lied to my face and acted behind my back.











Kids can't play anywhere they want, because the yard is divided between gangs in the territory.







But good players usually only come out of nerds. That's why the other guys are freaking out here.





























































Why don't you let Koresh and his friends go to the football field?






















































- What did I do? Just chatting with his friend, Nick.
























































































































- I wanted to talk to you, too. - Oh. Really?

















































































Game on, my best friend!
























Kids will always fight, right?






















































































































































Hello, I'm a friend.




































































































































- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Good morning.

Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.





Good evening.
Good evening.
Good evening.












































































































































































































Okay!
Okay!




That's good.



















We're friends.



We're two big friends.



We're two big friends.

























































































Are you okay?














































































Good evening.
































































































Seven o'clock.


































































































































Where are my friends?





















It's better and better.








It's better not to get involved.

It's a woman.


























































There's no secret, there's a hidden truth.



































We really need to stay positive.
Good idea, Woody.




It's always gonna be funny, it's gonna be okay, it's not working at all!








































































If we need to get to the truth, we get to the bottom of it.















Tell her I'm okay.







Well, I mean kids, first of all...


I've been thinking about the kids.




























Okay.
You two stay here. If the driver comes back, just wait by the car, okay?



























































Okay, then let's move on to action.
































Wait, let me tell you, darling, okay?





I mean, I know I want to talk to the kids, but I don't know... which one.


Call my parents, tell them I'm okay and I'm okay, I'm just gonna travel a little longer.










Please tell the kids it's not about them.

Really, I'm sorry.









Okay, yeah.



















































You can be anything, man.

















































This is your best chance of survival.

It's gonna come out anyway, isn't it?


Say goodbye to each other.











Rick, Rick... it's gonna be okay.




You're gonna be okay, Bax.



































Please, man, don't leave me here!










I think he's just a kid.

But he's always in the shadows. He's secretive, he doesn't have many friends.


But he has the only best friend, and this is Stiles Stilinski.

You're not answering your phone! They're not doing anything without each other, so they went looking for a dead body in season one, and Scott bit a werewolf.

I mean, his friend turns into a wolf.















At the end of season one, she'll know that Scott was a werewolf, but there was a good story between them, and she took it very well.

Argents are werewolves hunters. It's their job, and they do it well, but Scott doesn't pay attention, and she's still dating Alison.

























Tell me the truth...











The purpose of his life is in fact to protect his loved ones.










And what if it doesn't just go through this, but everything else gets much better.
Derek's recruiting kids who can be helped, they all have weaknesses, and they're all being bullied.



It's true. It's all about the power.




























They're all invisibles in school, not popular kids.

It'll ruin their lives. If you need friends, you deserve more than Derek.






It's true.






















What's going on with you all? Derek knows better than Scott how bad things are.
So it's up to him to remove the threat quickly, even if it means someone's gonna get hurt, and it's better than letting something get out of control where you can't contain it anymore.






















But they're family, and she accepted Scott's situation, and she got closer to each other.

It's okay, okay? If there's anything you can do to help, do it.



























































































































And besides, it's a good distraction from Jackson.



















I think it was the best way to show how powerful the Alpha is over his pack.























If that's what you want, okay. But we'll do it on one condition.






























































































You're really gonna leave it for a couple of kids?






























































































He's gonna be okay.






















That's a good line.



















It's a spear in the morning, do we have to leave?




















I think Daniel's a friend.
He's a good guy.




I don't know how she feels about me, so I'm just not in a hurry, but at the same time, it's very difficult, because I really want to, you know, see where it might lead.









































Okay.











I'm not going back to life or work that I love, family or friends, or even my ex, and I realize that you're sad about it.











Okay.















I want to get to know the girls better.






































































































I had a good little fire.

















I really don't think it's safe here.

















- Really?






Daniel really is a very good man and he has such a tender, very tender soul, if I may put it that way.






Something more durable would be nice, you know, even a simple stone would be better.




















This is my friend Ogdy.




My old friend since high school.















































































































Better go now.




















































Okay.







"Oh, yeah, he's gonna come to his senses, he's gonna be good."




We'll take care of you, okay?


Caroline can't say much right now, but she said they were fighting each other. She and Johnny got into a fight.


























































That's not the best answer right now, kid.
I don't... believe me. That's not the best answer.
























Guys, he really doesn't know!




























I can see it in his eyes, okay?















We can't kill each other.






I've never raised my hand on a woman in my life.














Looks like it's handmade. 00:00:...................................................









I'm not gonna go through that lie, that's true.


















































































- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. =





- He really... what is it?







- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. =



It's only 2:00 in the morning.

























I know a better place. =
You didn't kill that woman, did you? =






























































































Really?




































I don't think she's in any better shape right now.


































































































































































































I really can't remember.











Women have a very strange taste.







Okay.



Really... then I'm gonna go.












































































It's true.
























The other kids, too.































- Really?














Really okay?









































But they're still the best in South America.

To compete against them... how about the Netherlands? But they couldn't even get into the top 30.



- We can't. They're our friends.








































Really?




Egypt has the best army in Africa.



































Our friends are Americans.





~ A dear leader. ~











Okay.


It's very expensive!































Did you... did you really do that?






























































It's true.













































Really?


































































Really?




























































Truth is...







It's 11:00 p.m.















I'm really sorry.











I'm... not just a woman... who goes with you for life.




Okay. I'm Kim Bong Gu. What are you gonna do?
































































Successful work.......................................










You really don't know that much?






































He's really... like a kid.





































Really?















Are you saying that North Korean citizens are caught by terrorists? Okay.



































































At nine o'clock in the morning, command was transferred to the United Forces Union.














Really?
























But... you really don't see them anymore?











































































































That's so good.









































Really?



He won't go to another woman. Another year, and he's gonna forget it.












Let's just love each other.


































































































































I don't think I'm gonna have kids anymore.

It will be extremely difficult to bear a child.
























































































Your father wanted to have a wedding in the best place.




Really?
Your late husband and father were my close friend.





And prepare the best reception and lunch.





















That's why I learned a lot from him. Have I been able to be a good guide for Con Seal?





















You're friends with him.























Now or about me and my baby?















Kiss your mom. You smile at each other, it's happiness you can't appreciate the difficulties you've been through. I don't think I'm gonna get another chance?




Really? Mom did a lot of work for you.




















































































































































We found each other with you. Just hold on a little bit.


How many of them are half of each other? Where we were together.





All of a sudden it's like magic and it's like it's a good thing who's your half.
We found each other with you. The road of vision has brought us together. It's almost always gonna pass by.
To test each other's touch... would mean something.



















Really?












Really?

























She really left this time.


The truth is gone mad.









Is that true?
















































































































The tree is expensive enough. Maybe something else?











































I mean, really...


Do you have good taste?
Did you really go to this place?

Tie it up. It's okay.





























What's their relationship... with this woman?
A woman?













































































Go and find your truth!












Am I really human?












So you can find out the truth about your death?






Let's find out the truth about my death...
























I really... became a man.
Really.


If you find the truth... that bell will ring.

















Really... but... what's the plan gonna work?























Okay.






What's the truth about their place?








Okay.

































You just have to do your part of the job.













Because I want to know the truth.


Really?





Is this girl's story true?


Did she really become human?































So you can find the truth yourself?

Okay.
It's gonna be okay.
We'll find the truth about our death.
part of the truth about your death.

































































He really doesn't know... his fiancée's face?






































It's okay.













I'm fine.
That's not true.
I'm glad you're okay.










Okay.






















That's not true.









The reason was the same. I don't know who would want to know the truth.

It's true.
I don't know who would've gone looking for the truth about death in another world.


















































































He's not interested in his job at all.





































It's okay.






































































That's a good name.






















The work has to be done.






























































Okay!

















































































That woman knows.
That... that woman?

















Is he doing his job in good faith?
















What do you mean... then why don't you show me this baby?




Joo Wol... why am I interested in this kid?


This kid...








to get this kid.









































That Shaman... has to go to work today...



Did you sleep well?


It's true... Will you keep me here?












Okay!
















Okay.
































































































































She was a very beautiful woman.
A woman?
















































But don't say it again.

























































































































And that's the truth.























Really? Okay, hold on a second.



































Call everyone along with the kids.








































Give us the baby.

Take the baby away from him.





And the neighbor's baby, too?



saving a child isn't gonna solve the problem.


Did he take the baby with him?


























You should weigh it well.

I'd rather be a commoner.















I have to meet and talk to that woman.













Really?



who does their job... who have the skills and... that they occupy an important place in the Department.

























































































Why are you with this woman?






Protect the people you love?





























Now get to work!



























I mean, he's a good father. She's taking care of me.










I know a lot of good sites for that.










But you don't want to profit from the kids.

















"We did what we could, darling.


















Dear shoes suggest good income, strong drinks in the middle of the day mean that you're looking for any way to forget and, like me, treat heartache with something even stronger than my cocktail.

And we're gonna get sick of each other 'cause no one's gonna go to Mexico if he's all right in his life.
And when we get each other, and there's no need for us here anymore, I'm gonna want to fly out of here on the first flight, which is a huge problem for me, because I kind of can't run to where I ran from.





























Are you offering me a job?
You already have a job.





















Okay.



























It's just my speculation, but if he's still keeping the dead wife's puzzle under the glass, then I suspect he's definitely not ready to date other women.






































- With a woman in whom he consciously sees only sensees, but subconsciously, something sensational.







"Pretend until it's true."




























Next. Tomorrow morning, we rent a bike for Megan, break the chain, and send it to his store.
Good morning.





He was the best book of my life, and I'm no longer interested in others.
I can't read any more books because none of them will be as good.














You're going to karate school to pick up your kid.

She's got someone, she's an interesting woman, and that's it.






Psych books? Yeah, it's from an old friend of mine.

Yeah, a friend of mine teaches there. I know who it is. Philip Larie.


















And they'll reach out to each other like two magnets in the form of scotch terriers.


Let's get to work.
It's not a good time for you. Couldn't wait till tomorrow?


He got an offer to work in...





Our work is good for him.






'Cause I skipped work a couple of times, and then Sam disappeared and...






















































Of course not. Okay.



Really? And I'm a surgeon's assistant.

















Her friend Martin turned her in, but that's not what this is about.


When I saw how much you two cared about each other, I thought you might want to help her.





Okay, we agree.















I'm glad it's a good bar.














That's our plan B, okay?


I'm sorry, I noticed you came with a very attractive woman.




































I'm serious! It's okay.



































Why didn't it work out last night?













Okay?









You hired all these people to start dating women? Someone had to do something.





I'm fine. You and I... we're good.
Yeah, but maybe even better.


We're just doing okay.






































Are you okay?























































































It's true.
















A woman like me, but I can read eyes and gestures. Someone who could be killed at any moment.

























































- His words. - Okay.







Okay.


































Okay?





































































































Now they have the best Kodziro.
















































































































































You're the one who left me for another woman!




















































To tell you the truth... my long-standing desire was to join the public service one day.
















































He left in the morning.
- In the morning? - Yes.
















































































































Take women alive!






































































Finish the job! Finish the job!




























Musashi... isn't it? And that's good.









A friend or an enemy... people calm down.















































































That's good.
Very good.












I've taken the lives of over seventy people. Good people. I killed them.

































Isn't that right? - It's beautiful.
Too good a time for this.


















































































































He's a friend.






He's a friend.

































That's better.





































































I don't like this job.









What a black job!




























Dr. Hamza.













Our kids are almost the same. See?


No, darling.





















































That's very good.

Okay, I'll hold it.




Relax your leg. Okay.




Okay.








In the hope of salvation. ♪ Season 4, Episode 8. ♪ Waiting for a friend.















- I'm a doctor.

Okay.














Okay, well, of course, we need a final permit if there's any family member.



























Female, 26 years old, brain death.



Okay.



















All right, this is Dr. Jeremy Bishop, our new general surgeon.















Dr. Bishop, do you want to have fun tonight?







Dr. Kowalski, phone call on line one.
Dr. Kowalski, line one.





















But most people here call me Dr. Kinney.
Dr. Kinney.





I'm a doctor too.
Doctor of old poems.







The doctor became a patient, huh?











Dr. Reid will be with you soon.











He's coming, darling.





























Dr. Reid, Maggie sent me.
Something wrong, Dr. Reid?
It's okay.

















Okay.

Call Dr. Bishop.






















































Take good care of him.

























Dr. Reid.











You have no idea what it's like to sit hopelessly while your best friend gets worse and worse.







Are you okay?



















Okay.




My name is Dr. Bishop.







I studied there from Dr. Perelman.









Dr. Perelman, he reminded us of Tikun Olam.



I get it, I really do, I swear.



































I'm sorry, but you're not in charge here, Dr. Kinney.













Dr. Kinney.











It's okay now, Josh.











Dr. Harris?



Okay.





When we were kids, I liked to jump out of the corner, and one day...







Good grades...
Good friends.


That's not true.
Really.


We're good, Emma.


















Freeze didn't bring any good, but warm saline...







Okay.





















Okay.





Alex, it's okay.









Watching your kid try to be brave...

Especially when you know the truth.


It's true.


Let's tell each other something we've never told anyone.
Okay.
















































































Maybe we can help each other.


























































Thank you, Doctor.
























That's right, yeah, that's good.























He's been texting you for the sixth time in a day. Yeah, because he's my friend.
We're friends.
We're gonna go to the movies as friends.



Really? Let me see.




Okay, well... I hope they like this rice cooker.
















Kids? I was gonna say Taco Bell.


































Okay.







Here's a health message from our favorite doctor.




Okay, I'm coming.







I got wiped by a magazine tester this morning.




































Okay.














Okay, you're not off the case.


Such good advice.







































































































Thank you so much for seeing me, Dr. Acopian.














And I really don't want to do it again.
Neither for yourself nor for you, really.









Rebecca, your doctor from New York is a charlatan.



That's great, but I should be better by Monday.
It's about work.



Okay, okay, you know what?












You understand each other.






















- without missing anything, start. - Okay.








Okay, fine. I was born in Prescott, but I knew this little town wasn't for me, so I moved to a big town. - Phoenix?











I'm out of here. Okay.
Okay, let's see... pink pills with 55 on them...




Listen, Dr. Phil.

















Let's get to work. Okay, let's see what we have with the presentation.




Okay!

Shouldn't we edit it first? Okay. Is that an Oxford comma?



I'll be happy to show you around tomorrow morning.






My friend bragged that this was the best little jazz bar in town.













Now it's time to get to work.
But before I start, I'll see what my friends do.














That's good.

Because now I can't finish the job.






Hello, darling.






We were your friends even when we didn't know about this table.
The truth is, none of us even.



















Dr. Acopian will be happy to see me.







Dr. Acopian?
Dr. Acopian, it's me, Rebecca Bunch!

Dr. Acopian?

Are you here, Dr. Acopian? Dr. Ako...








I'm a tiny... I'm like a child.




Okay.
Okay.






The best table, please, sir. I don't work here.

No, I have a job.







































♪ He's staying in the best hotels ♪














































What about your job?




































Okay.
Okay. Okay.














Okay, I mean, if that's not what you wanted, I think that I...








Okay, bye.
































You're a beautiful woman,











I was just being honest about... what work you did,



It's okay.










I know it's hard work to do, but I'm ready for it... it's work...
Excuse me. I know, I just have to... work,



















Is that a good table?





















Oh, my God, Dr. Phil.





You're the real Dr. Phil.


Even Dr. Phil buys Bob.







We're just friends.
















He's Josh's best friend, and if you sleep with Josh's best friend, you lose every opportunity when you finally come to your senses and realize that you're destined to be together.

Why are they suddenly the closest friends?
















When we see each other, the spell will fall down and the song will play.












Are you feeling better, Bunch?






















She's my friend and she's in the hospital.


















All right, give it to Rebecca for me.
But accept the idea that I'm her friend because Rebecca and I are close.



















I know where this woman is 24/7.









Paula, why are you closing the doctor's door?







































♪ Who did all the dirty work for you ♪
















































































You're good at this.



A lot of women wouldn't put up with it for that long.








Okay?





I'm in a big fight with my best friend right now, and without her, I feel like I'm fucking insecure about Greg.












We need to tell each other how we feel...

A moment like a prince and a princess swearing to each other.




































































































































I have a better idea.


Okay!





















It's gonna be a special night.











Feeling better?



































All the best for you and Valencia, always.

I-I wish you and all yours the best too.
Okay.














































Okay, I'm coming out.


















- Okay.
- Okay.

I mean, I wouldn't mind champagne, but the shots are fun, too. Okay.
























Okay.












That's very nice of you, but it's okay.
It's okay.



- Okay.








All right, let's go.






- Okay.





- Okay.

- Okay.


Okay, okay.

It's really funny, but let's dance...









Let's really dance.





That's better.






























That's very funny, isn't it?
It's really funny.


















Okay.









I gave her the best advice, and she ignored him.






And, Paula, you and I are best friends!


Yeah, the best.
Yeah, the best.























I was supposed to be the best friend.














- You're my daughter, and I should have been the best mom.
Oh, my God, you really are like my mom.
Well, I just thought it was gonna be my romantic night with Greg, and I'm sorry.



But if you really like Greg, tell him immediately.


No, it's okay, I like it.















I was patient throughout college and New York when all our friends got engaged and married. And I was patient when you cheated on me with Rebecca.



















Tonight went completely wrong...



Yeah, because I had a fancy idea how much I'd like to spend tonight.














My parents split up when I was little, your mother left, we don't have the best role models.

There's something I wanted to tell you all night.









And... I don't care how you say it, Greg, okay?


Okay.







Let's just focus on... on tonight and have fun, okay?






































♪ Tells the truth ♪









































































Dr. Spirit of Sleep Acopian.
























Okay, okay, here's what's going on.











- I really wouldn't.
- I really think I should.
- She really hates you.




No, no, it's okay.






Okay, that's it.











Learning to drink at the same time is a good solution.




It's a very good university.






















You want to hang out here and insult each other?






















































































Okay, the audience, in general, everyone made a good effort, but some of you, however sad it sounds, aren't enough.




I work two jobs, and my husband died.
























































♪ Or having a baby ♪









♪ I'd make it good if I wanted to ♪















You're attracted to each other.


















Who's gonna give up a good discount, huh?



Look, I know this is unexpected, and we haven't known each other that long...

You were such a good friend to our family.
You wrote Justinity a letter to get into Harvard, but unfortunately, the letter was better than her statement, but at least she went to Northridge's California branch.








And you're perfect for Philip's friend, Daniel, who stopped growing up when he was a kid after gymnastics class.



















































She quit her job as manager at a health food store to work here.








You're such a good magician!








I know it's better this way.
























































It's true.



That's really... that's a good idea.






























Are you sure this is a good idea?



























Come on, why don't we get back to work or I'll bore you?




































































































♪ The size of a baby's head ♪












































♪ They're basically meant to feed the baby ♪


























Okay.
Okay.













Okay.































Oh, you're Marty's friend.





Okay.























Your friends always talk about it when they come in.
God, I hate my friends.
















She's been acting like "Lonely White Woman" from the beginning.



































Okay, that's what happened before, but it's not gonna happen again, okay?


































Okay?
Okay.





























And you came to see Greg because he's a good vest.

Rebecca, I'd love to hang out with you, really, but I know that's what I'm supposed to do.


Okay...














Josh, focus on your girlfriend and your family, okay?

Okay...
Yeah, okay, cool.


















No, God, stop, woman.


Okay?




- Okay.

It's gonna be "three days you and I are gonna hurt each other."




























Me and my friends are here to ruin our lives, and you don't repeat our mistakes.






























Okay, look.


We can be single phones, okay?







Well, we were at the bar this morning. Watched the game, did you check it out?















Last-model SUV, full of junk, rear monitors so the kids can watch cartoons.






Okay.









Let's go get him. Ah, that's not a good idea.




























Okay.












Protection from children....................................... Dude, you got child protection on?






Okay, just give me... you guys.


Okay, okay. ♪ We could put him on the stage... ♪

Okay.













He's good, too much like a model, the perfect face, I can picture our kids with him, but I just don't feel anything.




































You stole my friend's phone, and we want it back, please.






















I may not have specific skills, but what I do have are specific friends.









































You know, I really don't think you're my Jay.

















Okay, next song for all the guys in the front row in the building boots, deep-cut shirt, black short hair...






































































We just want our friend's phone back.




How much for my friend's wallet?
Oh, it's the best night of my life and anyone's life.
























Wanted to find my phone first. What's so big about your phone that it's better than making out with me?
















We made the selfies against the background of the city, then we looked at each other, and I thought...









I'm married and I have a baby.










Okay?



You're not my friend anymore.
Didn't you come all this way here to help your friend?









You want kids?























There's nothing to be ashamed of, darling.



Come on, darling, we're leaving.
























Surrendering the child to his parents


Sometimes, the best way to deal with something is an adult not a paintball conversation.



That's good, 'cause




Okay, if you want to keep company again, call me.







































In life, you meet old friends and re-establish a relationship.









Me and my friends are here to ruin our lives, and you don't repeat our mistakes.























We'll be fine as long as we stick together and tell the truth.
The truth... I see.















And you're just friends?
Yeah, right, just friends.


Just friends, yeah.


















Yeah, sure, okay.















The truth is, Cam and I were hanging out in college, but our tracks broke up.







Last time I saw you was in your brother's room hunting bears with friends.






















That's not true.




















You know, guys, I don't think it's a good idea to leave Cam here.














Come here, friend.























Good boy.


























Are you okay, miss?























Dude, I told you to hire a nurse!



















Okay, I've already said that, word for word.










The next morning, I woke up and started looking at our creation.
Our work looked better in the light of day.

















Cameron Rush was the best man in the world.




Yeah, it's true.



















I mean, the best municipality in the world.





































































Buddy, if you were a black guy carrying a white man's dead body in a box of his ice cream truck, you'd know the answer!

























Have a good day, sweetheart!




Really!


































































































Gala's good.










Nothing good!







You okay, Officer?





First thing I'm gonna do is, uh, first thing in the morning.














I don't remember what happened, man.
































































Yeah, he's the best.

Uh, friend.










A good mood is very important, as is optimism. But we don't make the rules of life, so sometimes the courage and the resilience of life...





Model heartbeat of a model child.
He doesn't look like a model kid when he rolls the flap at three o'clock in the morning.









If I were doing school grades, I'd write, "You can do better."




I need to see Dr Turner right away, please.




She said she couldn't take sick kids.
















I need this to happen on Sunday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. while the kids are at school and Marcus is at the docks.

















One morning she came crying and refused to explain why.




















- Tim, there aren't many good melodies for a pagoot.











Rohampton helps many of the children affected by the thalidomid.

I just want to give her everything else my kids have, Dr Turner.
Everything every child has to have.








I'm gonna have to go shopping in the morning and buy something new.


















I prescribed a drug that completely deprived this child of limbs.




Young Mrs. Sengupt's water broke at 4:00 a.m.












































He started the letter with the word "darling," Trixie.
A man would never say "darling" without serious intent.

I didn't spend five shillings on stitching lotion, and I didn't sit two hours with a turf on my head to spend the night knitting at a nun's company!









They've been the best in this field since World War I.









Really?


There are children here with other problems, but... the fisherman sees from afar.

Come on, darling, over here.





Okay.


The baby will be here by then. Black curly cop and stuff.
Do you really see the head?























I'll be honest, you'll be amazed how quickly kids get used to all the devices.


Can children really walk on these feet?









They help children learn to keep their balance.



Happy birthday, dear brother!


















The sooner you give up your license, the better.







- Other kids?

























The baby was hit by a car.





Kids... crippled by these pills.



At the moment, we believe that at least 30 children have all four limbs.


I think we should all focus on what's best for Susan and for you.







































































Is that the biggest of your kids, Carrie?






You'd better get some rest at home and build up your strength.









Your dear doctor called and said you were coming.







I'm gonna give you time to say goodbye, and then I'm gonna take the baby to the room, okay?
































They don't let kids in on Sundays.
















































The other kids teased us there.




Okay.

She's a good woman.






They had to run away from other children because they called them.







You like your job. And our views on God and his existence are quite different, to say the least. But we both remain faithful to our calling.






I have no one to ask but myself, rational woman.





If I don't come back within the hour, take it as a good sign.




I'm sorry about that night, Trixie.










I don't think this marriage could last long. It didn't last, but they're divorcing their wife, not their baby.
























Very good.


And I don't think she's doing very well.






I make coffee in the thermos every morning.










I'd rather roll mills in a workhouse or conopathize with a crack instead of an extra hour for this kind of work.




Other women don't tell you.



No one knew then that those pills could hurt the baby.


They can't hurt a child after the eighth week of pregnancy, you know that?


The drug was licensed in Germany in 1956, and the first children with injuries were born in 1957.




Kids were born with no hands, no legs, no nose, no eyes, and that's just the ones who survived.





I ask myself that every morning when I open my eyes.























Neither in front of us, nor in front of each other, nor in front of our beautiful, beautiful little girl, because it's not our fault.













It's been ten years since I had a baby, and I don't feel any better since that time!




Because I have no idea how I'm gonna lift this kid alone.


Yesterday morning, around seven.






I could accept the fact that he has a child.









With the last contraction, the baby's head appeared, Vera.





































I'm just thinking about what's best for you, and I'm not gonna bring any more champagne on dates.










































The parents of the children, maimed by the Taliban, did not expect anything, but they sought justice for more than 50 years.
Their battle is still going on, their dignity determines it, and their anger and love give them strength because children must be loved.

I've been watching women become mothers for almost 30 years. Obstetrician or not, you're no different from the others.
They almost look like aspirin, don't they?












Good, 'cause the answer is, uh.

















































































































































Looks like there's a lot of work to do.















- I really miss you.

Dear God, I know you're busy with things from Afghanistan to the Zeke virus, but if you had a minute... we could use your help with the break-ins to the ring.








I meant kids, not basketball, of course.











One of the reasons why we decided to speed up the wedding is that Becks is good at weddings, and she likes it.


































If it's not cancer, go to work.

Wow, that drink really cheers you up.













Call your girlfriend and tell her to go to work immediately.



No, I wanted you to come to work. So I can tell you that you have to go to work.
































































Okay.

The key to good planning is good organization.
And the key to a good organization is prudent.





















It's really better not to use three or four, they're soaked in blood from my paper cuts.






Okay?










I just thought I'd check on you on the way to work, see how things are going, and maybe... maybe help me pick out the dress.










Okay.












Okay.
Okay.















I know it seems like it's complicated, but I really have it under control.








Okay?








Okay.











Best wedding ever!
















- I really think...














Okay.











Everybody get back to work!




- Really?





































As my dad says, children, the old and the weak need to sleep during the day.





















♪ Work is stress ♪
























Really?




Josh is really over.




The truth is, I don't even know what to do with my life right now.


Like, I really don't miss Josh.



Like our wedding, our kids, our house, our Halloween couples costumes.




















































♪ Patrick, I really need this ♪


























































You suddenly become a child, an old man or a weakling?





Really?

I'm actually much better.




























Really?
This vortex is quite expensive.



I thought you were planning your big wedding and you didn't care about work.








































































I booked you for a fitting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. sharp.















Really?









Get your ass to the most expensive wedding boutique, get a credit card, and get a size six dress, a very beautiful and magical dress that everyone's gonna cry from, you terrible human likeness!





She has good taste.

Really?










They're cute, aren't they?

- You're really good at this.



























You're really here!















Really? Everyone says you hate us.



























Good job, Cal. Well done.




























No, really.














It's okay, Mary.




















































































































And in that moment, I realized that my father never wanted children.





Do you really want to spend it talking about how your dad cut the lawn?







You're saying your dad didn't want any kids.
But at least you've seen your father, and that's more than your kids have.

You know that's my job.









Look, the work is almost done.





I've been supporting you for years before you had kids.















Your father has nothing to brag about in his life, because he's kicked his kids off, and you're doing the same thing.
- It's my job!
- I'm your job!
Our kids are your job.
Our marriage is your job.

You're not taking the kids to Philadelphia.





























How's it going? Okay.

I mean, it's not okay, but at least you figured out how careful we need to be in our work.







Yeah, I get it, but you need to learn how to redirect some of your anger to work.





















Okay?



















I mean, I'm not sure it's Sean's baby.






I don't think it matters if he's a kid or not, but Sean is.




Mary, we all hurt people. So should I tell Sean the truth?
You know, the most important truth is what we keep in our hearts.

If you... if you know it's Sean's baby, and if you want it to be Sean, it is.



















And now everyone knows I'm letting you see the kids?

















Kids are all I have, okay? Everything fucking there is! Sarah!


















On Sunday night, a tragedy broke out: families had to seek shelter from the shelling.








You can make the kids.









Anyway, I'm the best machine player in the whole universe.










































































That I'm letting him see the kids?




Just the kids.
Okay, well, I suspect it's not good for the kids.















Because I told you the truth.














Hey, it's okay. You're okay.













Isn't this world much better with me?
Tell him he's better with me.
































Really. With all due respect, I've been through this before.


My bastard's dying, my friends are dying...























Okay.










Horace, darling, lunch is ready.


























In the absence of an inspector, I will make some organizational changes... that I believe will make our work much more efficient and start with our business system.





















My darling, darling, my best and only companion.









He was recently examined by the best vet in the country.






Everyone knew Horace was one of the best dog's favorites.






























































































Thank you, dear friends, for meeting here on this insufferable occasion.



































Kaiser is certainly a strong rival, but his owner, Sebastian Melrose, is my friend.

















Your kids miss you, and I've changed.





Women leave families.





- A woman leaves her family and goes somewhere to her parents.


But these women have disappeared.


All I know is that the women went missing.





































- Good girl, Pistachio.











- Are those missing women?






I figured the best way to solve this case was to deal with one missing woman at a time, starting with...












































































































































My dear brother would be so proud.




Okay.













Good dog.











Where were you between 5:00 and 6:00 last night?









Where were you between 5:00 and 6:00 last night?

































Okay, well, then she and I are gonna spend the night here.


Very good.

So I'm not gonna be in the best shape tomorrow.












Mr. Dubois leaves the hospital tomorrow morning.



























She's probably telling the truth, sir.















Okay, George.





















- Doctor.

































Sir, I think Miss Newsome might have told the truth.
























She was walking with a woman.
What woman?
















- And it's a woman.


























Be a good girl.


And have a good day.
Good luck with the competition tonight.








Pistachio and Kaiser are the main contestants for the best dog in the competition, and Roger and the Duke follow them down the heels.
















































Good girl.






It's a pity that Pistachio won't compete after all this training and hard work.























































It's okay.



You'll be in America by morning.





Very good.





- It's a nightmare, isn't it?


Really.










Promise me you'll be as careful as you can at work.
































































Okay.













If that's true, and she's handing them over to us, it's gonna be the biggest intelligence agency in 10 years.









































And in good condition.












There was a woman like you.











Yeah, good boy.
Good. You're a good boy.






Who's a good boy?
You're a good boy.















But for Tom, it's a job.







I wanted to have a baby with him.




The truth was under my nose, and I didn't see it.


























































It's from an area of expensive memories.






















































































































- I was doing my job.
- A job?

We wanted to have a baby.
You begged me to have a baby!
- It was a job.
- Stop talking about work.











You should have gone to work early, and when I woke up, you were gone.



































Nice try.

















































You want the truth?






I'm on the side of the good guys.




























You deserve a better life, Lizzie.
















With your best wishes, Knut Swan.


























Madame, a friend would like to speak to you.













































































"The best swordsman of Prague and the bravest student!"



"The best swordsman in Prague and the most active student should be given this opportunity!" I don't know.





"Dear cousin, I will obey my father's wishes, but I do not love you."





"I can become known as Baldwin, the best swordsman, the only one who can match me is my mirror reflection."







"Mr. Student... don't you want to be not only the best swordsman and the most violent student, but also... "











"Well, well... agreement is agreement!" I don't know.










"Do you have a problem, my friend, are you pale, don't you feel well?" I don't know.

"My dear cousin, don't forget you're engaged to me."



Dear Countess, you will keep your promise to meet me tomorrow at an agreed place.








"My dear Countess, there is peace..., peace..., loneliness...."












But this Baldwin is Prague's best swordsman!" I don't know.



























































































































































Better than I expected.









I didn't come to see you at work, but if I wanted to.


















- I don't know... - Okay.
- I don't know. Wait. - Okay.
Okay, okay...


























The further, the better. Here we go.

Were you okay? Yeah, sure.






















































































The next morning.










"The Count Spinelli was with me that night.










"Dear God, let me see my father again."
























The championship tonight!




It's a great evening!





HIS NEW WORK







"You're hired!"






































"You want to get good money for nothing."







Dirty work!


























He thought I was somehow in bed with the LS Crystals that Albert F. Ofmann got that night.















The most frightening hallucinations continued all night.






























Yeah, well, the interior's changed a little bit, something's changed now; the entrance from the corridor... remembers me.... Patients came through here... Dr. John to Ithlow, colleague at that time,



































♪ How it all happened ♪ ♪ Once I was red in the morning of May ♪




I saw what Adam saw on the morning of his creation I was born the moment in a moment, the miracle of the naked existence of me.










Myr, discovered by that sunny May morning of 1953, struck the Axley to the depths of his soul.


















So, I'm in my own house, and before I take drugs, Dr. Osman, the cat will ask me a few questions.

























































































Former intelligence officer John Marks is telling us the truth about a secret investigation by me.

































In a powerful drug, Isis began to distribute it to my friends.




































































In Millbrook, children of 9 years of age received L — D.





It's not because I'm very smart, but because they give me good lines for the show:








We got together that morning about an hour before I was supposed to start my service upstairs.













Then I kind of took it in my hand and said, okay, let's see what this expansion is. He said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.












































And I had a habit. Many people, say, did it every Saturday night. It's become part of their lives. They could go to work in town for the rest of the week.




















































































































































"It's a good thing this isn't my cellmate."




















You have been sentenced to one day's imprisonment for indecent behaviour at 24:00 a.m. to 25:00 p.m. and must arrive at the place of detention today at 8:00 p.m.






My dear sister, the famous Prince of Zhbrshawn, by the way, is a charming gentleman, and very rich is hosting a big ball to which we are invited.












Your friend Hugo.













Your friend Hugo.

That proves how stupid women are.




















Maybe it's Mitzi.














The next morning.






































































I beg God to show me where the woman who betrayed me is hiding...
To introduce Ma to his friends, Albert will have a party.












Book a bed in Algambra for tonight.




























Such lovely pens can't be messed up by work.










Don't wait for me, darling, it could take hours.















One morning.




They say he's very sympathetic to beautiful women.



And I will protect him from all other women.








In the evenings at Count Dubarry's, there was a game of cards.





























This morning, the whole of Paris will be singing these verses.









My dear Duberry, the king has decided to make me an office favourite.








Now you're France's most powerful woman.





















Armand's friend is Pye's cobbler.


I'd rather go to jail than my sick wife starved.







This woman will destroy France. It does not distinguish good from evil.


Evening.
I overheard he was meeting suspicious people at Jourden's tonight. They're plotting something against Mrs. Countess.






















Tell the truth what's wrong with me.





































His friend Joseph:















Dear sir, since the daughter of the king of shoe cream married the count and the oysters are much more important than the shoe cream, I ask you to send me a son-in-law with a lineage comparable to my oysters.






You can't keep a baby like that!
But you can't spoil kids.

















































































































































Do you know that you're married to a friend?





Richard Lowe for the work of an artist.
































But the witches were considered to be Satan's children born out of wedlock, for which reason they were burned on fire.












Wishing to be on the coven, the woman was sneaking into the sorcerer where the sorcerer was rubbing in her back.
Under the influence of the masi, a woman could fly through the sky.
The French theologists Burnville and Toynterier revealed to me the following images of Shabash the Witch of Satan's secret ceremony, in which thousands of girls and women confessed to being involved.









































He comes with a nightmare, a violent demon, a cheater, a lover, a friend.






In Franz Hyeongmann's book, Ancient German rites and customs, we can find images of the inquisitorial judges at work.
A woman caught in witchcraft is thrown into the water to find out if she's guilty or not.



































"Let this woman see, here are the seven commandments of the Christ, cursed on the baked holy water parchment."

















And women who did not fulfill the devil's covenant were humiliated by Satan..."





And how she bowed her knees, and that old shit Cissel - her servant - is also good..."












































Or did you forget about the son of the Painter-- your child-- that now alone in the whole world, without family and without you-- your mother-in-law?"




"Look, woman, this baby without you is going to suffer the death of an outcast, a satanic freak..."


...Okay, look, once a wandering rock told me that before the storm was triggered, the witch put his hands in the water..."






For centuries, some 8 million women, men, the elderly, and children were burned on charges of witchcraft.



For example, women swore that when they turned cats, they shit on the altar, while the two devils under the beast's face were carrying watches at the church gate...
Among such confessions, there were some that might well have gone for the truth, especially in an era of prejudice...
Many women were burned for allegedly bewitching the marriage bed with the help of knots!


Perhaps a lot of people have been doing this kind of trick, believing in their magical power...







Dr. Renyar shows us a drawing that speaks for itself.








In the Chronicles that have come to us, unhappy women with touching simplicity tell us how the Devil entered the monasteries.



How many torments must have been inflicted on pious women before madness struck them? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






























Isn't there something "witchy" about sleeping girls walking around with matches?














"No, Doctor, I don't feel anything."

















I'm a complete woman..."














































"Don't be in such a hurry, my young friend!





...it's really gonna cost you a little effort... a little sweat and maybe...




"Go quickly, my young friend, happy journey to the country of ghosts."

And Hutter entrusted care for his sad wife to his friend, rich shipowner Harding and his sister.
























It's still a long way from sunrise, and I'm sleeping in the afternoon, my friend, sleeping in a really deep sleep."


My dear!


Two already bit me in the neck, next to each other.








"Doctor... Doctor!"


The doctor told me that Helen's fear was some unknown disease.


























"Aren't you like a vampire?"












My dear!


Two already bit me in the neck, next to each other.

























It's okay now..."





























"This is what I see every night!"













































Dear Mitzi. I just found out you moved to Vienna two months ago.








Charlotte, whose marriage to Dr. Franz Brown is perfect.











Mrs. Stock fainted, and Dr. Brown must arrive immediately!


This is Dr. Brown, Charlotte's husband.


Dr. Gustave Mueller comes by Brown's every morning, allegedly to talk to a colleague, but actually to see his wife.


My dear Mrs. Stock.









Gustav, you're my best friend.




Dr. Schmidt is my friend.





























1 : 10 a.m. - The room turns on light 1: 22


When I stopped watching the house after 1.50, Dr. Brown was still there.

Everyone doesn't like sunshine in the face this morning.






By the way, Mizzi's been living at the Bristol Hotel since this morning.






My husband and my best friend!








Well, wait, Franz, my boy, I'll teach you such a lesson that you'll never look at another woman again.
We'd better get in from the back door.



And we kissed each other?




Paris falls asleep and the next morning the night watchman of the Eiffel Tower wonders why nothing wakes up in the city and because no one comes...


"All froze last night except me, upstairs tower."





But how good is this wealth when it gets bored?






"Okay, I'll try!"
"It's 3:25 a.m., same time!"




"We're telling the truth."
























































































Every night he brings her food.
Georges is worried about the girl, alone. without a roof over your head, in the rain.



























- I have to tell him the truth.





I had a friend, and now he thinks I'm a thief!






6: 30 a.m.
And since Mary Allman was so willing to sacrifice herself, dealing with hard work and monotony on a day-to-day basis,







"I'll try to get the money out of the family's budget to get your other couple back out of repair, darling."






"Did yesterday's meat leave a piece for lunch-- do you want to serve it hot or cold, darling?"


"Nana" Marsh, who babysit John when he was a kid and now, from time to time, help with the household.







Every morning was turned into a struggle with time to do everything for my father.













"Nana, darling, don't say anything - for me!"




"Oh, my God, calm the baby down!"

"Can the baby change his socks?
















"But I'm sure they still love each other.
Let's see what we are, two old women, can help them."
















"But we knew better times - I couldn't have a better husband.

"Son, wouldn't your mother rather listen to your homework for tomorrow?"

















"Good evening, darling."










"Now we have to save money - I'm not as good a mistress as your wife."

























This is a common case of an overworking and almost starving woman for the benefit of her family.

"My advice to you is to go home and be patient until my treatment and the country air do their job."






















Dear Nana, I'm glad to report that I feel almost all right again, even though I miss John and the kids.









"Only because we pay the house, we imagine doing all the work, while...
"As our wives do three times as much work - getting no pay except grunting or angry looks!"











I don't feel alone anymore, because I have Peter who seems to think I'm the most beautiful woman in the world.













"Recognize that you deserve a good tweak?"



"John, my dear!"


"It was a very hard lesson, darling, but he made me realize how much you mean to me."





"Hey, lovebirds, are you gonna stand like this all night?


















Tomorrow morning:



























Can I take the night off?

































So, my dear Canes, I'll show you the night vein.



And her beautiful women to envy the world!







We've been out of work and homeless for three months...
It's a good thing the hostess of the hotel lets us sleep in the stables.







































Isn't it a beautiful town with beautiful women?










It's too expensive for us.







Would you like to bet, Dr. Lyde, that your wife will be back in the next 10 minutes?
Dear Doctor, something has happened to your...











This gentleman was with us last night in the next room...





























It's too expensive...


I'd like to go to Grifer's tonight.


You have a job.

Now I'd like to have my job.























I saw a woman killed in the next room...











Dear Fraulein Rumfort, I get $60 a month apartment, and I'm also gonna make some money.
I hope we'll be good friends!













Then she left, and after that night, I didn't see her.













You're the most charming woman I've ever met.

I'm having a little friendly party tomorrow night.















She was healthy and in a good mood.
Why did you wear that fake beard that night?

















Boy, you don't know life, and most of all women.









We're getting better.


You're sick, and you'd better get back to your parents.









































The baby's starving.


Please give me a little, my baby's starving.

He was killed by a young woman.


Save the baby!









"Are you leaving again, darling?"






"But Monsieur Lepic is a good man.










Family is a group of people living under the same roof who hate each other.

Felix, the eldest of Lepic's sons, spent most evenings here.






Family night.






"Dear, could you pass me the bread?"

Just do your job, whatever you need!"





























"You were scared, weren't you?"
"Gingerbread, you're gonna lock up the henhouse every night."


"What a child! How I deserve such punishment!"




















I wish I was dead at all."

"I wish I hadn't come.

"I'm bored here, I'm leaving tonight."



















Then he thought about his little friends.















































"The girl isn't the best behavior!"








"You'd better stay away!"






































































"And that's why you and I are friends!"
































"In the morning, the struck Caliph visited a wonderful building."

















































"I'd rather fish on our own farm and restore it."


















Berit, if you're telling the truth, can I hope?











On Saturday evenings, local youths were going to dance in the village field.
















I'd rather have a doctor come.





















I'm gonna find Berit, we're gonna find a job in town, and we're not gonna bother you here.

When Thor came out of the vicar, he already knew he had a good friend.


















Did you tell me the truth?

























The brooks were all over each other at the beginning of the waterfall. If only he could grab one, then he'd be saved!





































































"I love my children!























































Everything must be ready today, Dr. Lafton!

I've provided you with the money and the best instruments you've ever asked for!




I'll come tomorrow night.

























So this Dr. Lafton is hiding here in Metropolis?












































If Dr. Lafton is hiding, he should be in Zone 1.





















Where'd that kid go?

























I don't believe Duke Red has children.
Wasn't the kid he lost a girl?






































It's because of you bastards that we lost our job!
























- What happened to Dr. Lafton?




Have you had any business with Dr. Lafton?

























People used to have good sayings.




























































If Dr. Lafton had finished Tim, she could have taken the throne by now.



























































































































There's no school, no work, nothing.































It would be nice if the army helped us.








Of course, my dear Atlas.


































Okay!










Good question.























































































To tell you the truth, my nephew's marduk party was mistaken--
























"Dear Tim, I'm sorry I can't tell you this in person, but I can't move freely.





































































It's true, you're different from other robots.









I don't know what you're up to, but I'm sure you worked with Dr. Lafton.







Really?


































It's true, you're a robot.



























Dr. Poncotts!


- What's going on, Doctor?



















Doctor, we've lost control...


































The next morning, the Red Army took the city.

















I need to find a job.








...and tonight we celebrate our engagement.














I'll meet you tonight at 9:00 at our usual place.



I'm so glad you're here, Doctor.








Will you bring the money in the morning?







You need to get some sleep if you're leaving in the morning.




Tonight, Uncle...




























































































"I think it's a woman."
"Women don't interest me."











"The Bull Weed is our best friend, isn't he?"



"Are you going to prom tonight?"









"Are you throwing $10 bills tonight too?"






































"But we love each other, don't we?








"Tell me the truth, Ed, - Rolls Royce and the Peaches tried to see me?"






























































"This is an American agent, darling.








"True friends are rare.






And friends, I'm gonna bring Julie Fergeron.






"My friends, I promised you a surprise..."















"Will you allow me, Your Honor, to show the sword trick the same way it was done on stage that night?"




























If you compromise a woman with one word, we'll fight on a duel tomorrow.
































My lord won't let anyone in while there's a woman.
Is he having a woman on a wedding night?






























"I have a meeting with Karen tonight.





























"What's the price of kissing your hand this morning?"










"The truth, Mrs. Scarmel, my boy, Shani, will always find the best place!
































"How could I love them?" "'Cause the best thing I ever had was bought by my father..."



































"I yearn for apple tonight!"





















"Nothing but shadows, darling... and fog!"

























And... there's good news about your Prince Beautiful!"






















My wife, this evening you are more beautiful than an angel.


Crane, darling. I can't leave without telling him.

I'll talk to him, darling.











His wife came back... with the baby.
























































I'm too nice and good for a dump like this!


But the Dead Leg paid you generously to keep it, didn't it?











































I only eat with friends!







I only eat with friends, too!









You're just a kid.

























Poor kid! What did he do to you?
















It's Anna's baby!







































I'll tell you the truth, darling!












You have to tell her the truth!


















































A woman who's wanted.

You can get used to any woman, though!"
"Well, still a dreamer, dear Leblanc?"






















"Dr. Karoff."





"Dr. Bazanov's body was found today with a bullet in his head.









Can you get me a fracco for tonight's New Year's Eve, Mr. Director?"


















"Stasha... we'll stay together forever, won't we?"































We love each other.















What's so good about wanting money?



No, my friends.




















Remember, there's nothing more important than Freedom... except the Corners and the Sunday Night Paper.
Be free, my friends.



























In the meantime, I want you to cheer up while you keep working.












- I'll be back someday. - Okay.

If you can find a window. - Okay, sir.






















Suppose I invite Mr Potter and Polly to spend the evening with me?

During the evening, I could get the key out of her purse.










It's too expensive. That's the problem.




























































Good guy.


































You're the woman I'm looking for.



















- All right.












- They don't like each other.
- Really?


















And in the morning, the goat's gonna suck.



'Cause no one can fool a woman like you with a bad sewer pipe?



























































Okay, we'll stay till summer, too.























It's okay.











Tell them I'll send the money in the morning.








If you pull your nose out of the tube, it'll be better.








Pick a better one.















Okay, goodbye.





- Okay, but be careful.







- Really!
























That's not good.




No, you're my friend.





















- No, that's my friend.
















Hurry up, darling.














Did you know that you look like Prince Welles? Better!





Tell me what you're doing tonight.
Maybe you have a good idea.
Would you like to come to room 320 at 11:00 P.M.?
Okay, I'll be there at 10:30.








I'll be there at 11:00 p.m.














No, better be a bull and a cow.












I mean, if we had a nice bungalow... I'd come home from work, and you'd be standing at the gate...
No, you come back from work, and I'm standing at the gate.
It's better this way.







My dear Mr. Hammer, I will never marry before my daughter.





- I'm not myself tonight.















Think about it-- the night... when the moon walks around the clouds, and I'm gonna walk around you.
I'll meet you under the moon tonight.


















































































It's okay.












































If we successfully sell these plots... you'll get a good commission.

























It's when a woman would do anything for a mustache. They're willing to do a lot for mine.




























































- You're my friend.



- That's good.
- And if I know that, the best position for you is horizontal.

































They never look sad, and it's true.

























Really, we haven't built the station yet.

It'll be as good here as it used to be.


































My friend, one milk in these coconuts is worth more than.























































































$800. This gentleman here has good taste.



A gentleman with double taste and a better haircut.

























- It's so expensive?
It's so expensive? I'll give $1,000 to whoever gets it back.

























I saw you in the room last night.



Okay.











If the guy doesn't say anything, then there's a woman involved.








































































Your engagement will be announced tonight.













- Why? What's the matter, darling?


All right.































































All right, Bob.






























































Penelope, darling, how good of you to come.
















































































Friends, now that we've found Hennessey's shirt... why don't we look for the cufflink I lost here?













Often in a quiet evening, the trembling of leaves can be heard lurking through trees and a groaning creek...











Friends, in view of the fact that we're here today... for Miss Polly's wedding... we're going to have to listen to her mother's speech.





My dear friends... if only I could tell you what kind of pink shade... everything appears today.



Now, I want to wish you all the most pleasant evening.



Now, friends, it is with great pleasure that I present to you... the groom! Mr. Yates. Mr. Harvey Yates.
Good evening, radio fans.


My dear friends.



















Now, friends...














Now, friends, I want to introduce you to a charming young lady.


I know all friends wish me the best. I can't tell you how much I appreciate it.











And I gave him a check for a thousand dollars this morning.
At least it was my personal check.























It's kind of a good day to kidnap kids.
You want me to find a good hiding place?







Nice work.











Look, I'm a child-snatcher.

You don't look like a child kidnapper.





























Yoshiki Bank employee and his friend Yokichi Sakuma...



































Dear Sakuma, I will never marry Ori.




















This morning, his hands were working somehow without a hard time.





You could rest tonight and relax.













Dr. Lesenne, despite his 67 years, was friends with the youngest islanders.





Dr. Lesanna!










So, my children, we need another sailor to go to Banneck.



In the morning.
But on the other side of the island, the sick old man reported that he wanted to accompany the doctor.


















His friend, writer Jerzy Gursky, was at death.



"Tell me frankly, friend, what do you think of my novel?"





















"Of course, my dear, if you cover the costs of publishing."
"Here's a good note, confirmed by my grandmother."

"Good confirmation.











Mr. Ligenza, rich landowner, childhood friend of Beletsky.


"Nina, I present to you my friend, Beletsky, "the great talent you've met."


"Sorry, dear Henrik.













Keep that secret, my friend!"



Mr. Ligenza is an old friend of mine."


"My dear Director, you probably agree with me that the main role should be played by Mrs. Zhegota."



"Go alone, my dears, I must attend the conference."













"From now on, my dear, nothing will separate us."










"Do you know why you're hiding the truth?



This woman will disappear, no more witnesses to his crime.

Well, my dear, why would I leave you?





















































They're all going to work today.











Do you want to go to the movies tonight?"



"Okay, tomorrow... Sunday!"







"My best friend!"








"Well, children, let's go, let's go!"
"Kids, who's gonna lend me one brand?"





Work again.









You still haven't broken your mail for this morning.


































































Okay.
Okay, I'm gonna go.










I bet a place like this is gonna get you in good shape.












It's the best couple in the whole army!


















- Where did you get such a good uniform?


- My dear, you're screaming.














You've made a good mess.






I see you're all having some misunderstanding... and we're gonna fix it, too, aren't we?

















Work, that's what we need. Okay!
Then we'll get back to work!




























Nice work.























































There's no better peasant in the world.






We've been living here since yesterday morning on hay and razor blades.





















































Much better than getting a hole in the belly.
If any of you stay alive, I'll pick him up by morning.



You better accompany your troops, Daddy.

Don't fall behind. Listen, kids.








When we get back, I'll get you all some good and clean underwear.































My friend.




























Truth is, all these cards look the same.








It's... it's not gonna last more than two days, is it?





























Anyway, we'll do our best to deliver the food by tonight.












































































That's good.









































That's a good idea.

- We can get him his stuff. - Okay!

















































The best country wins. That's right.















I told you, you can't bring such a good watch.








'Cause the food here feels like it's okay.
































- I'm sure you'll feel better.







- Goodbye. - Okay, Paul.






Good boots aren't easy to find.
Please call a doctor.
Doctor, the man in the next bunk wants to see you, sir.


































Doctor, go quickly!





Operation after operation, five o'clock in the morning.

I'm sure it'll be 20 by morning...

Yeah, it's really good today.























Still, it's a good invention.











A woman can't run a farm alone.

















Wives, children, work. What about us?



























- Who's this friend of yours?
Can someone get General Ludendorf a nice, comfortable chair?






























































You're in a much better position than I am.




Why would they send us to fight each other?



























If he goes on like this, he's gonna be wearing a pinnacle by tonight.











- Give me your best sausages.








For getting drunk before we lose consciousness tonight.












Such a girl. It's really great, isn't it, Albert?

We can wash our clothes, wash our clothes. Okay.





- Really.



- We can bathe anyway. - Okay.














Women!



















In war and love, all means are good.




- It's me, blondie! * (Franz...................................................... - ♪ Friend ♪ - ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪ friend ♪
Friend! * (Franz......................................................
♪ Your friends ♪ ♪ Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, he
* (Franz...................................................... ♪ Your friends ♪ ♪ Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, he


























Oh, if you only knew how this doesn't look... like the women the soldiers meet.








Nice, new coffins.











They say there's always good care and good food.












Sorry, honey.









But suppose he gets better?















- Nope. No, we're gonna be okay.


































































- It's gonna be okay now.

It's gonna be... okay.








































You're not gonna disappear, are you?
















But the best is always for our soldiers!

Best for our soldiers.
But... you're gonna have to give the French a good kick out of it!


































































When it comes to the death of a country... it's better not to die at all!







































Just be careful of the women there.

Where our part is standing, there are no women, Mother.










They'll make you feel good and warm.





I'm still a kid to you.



































- Is it true about the truce, Paul?






































The kids thought I was a coward because I said... we found out here that our duty to our homeland wasn't worth our death.




















And now that I'm with you, I'm starting to believe that I told her the truth.










- Good luck.




























































































And again, maybe, because sometimes you look like a child.




I invited my friends, and I want you to entertain them.


Oh, I'm good here, too.





You're acting like a little kid.








Okay, Mac, okay.
Look, honey, you're too strong to put anyone outside the ring.







That's not true?










I told him to decide and tell me tonight.


























































All right, the verdict was six cents.








































































































I don't have anyone, and I need a good manager...
But you have a good lawyer.
Of course you have a good lawyer.















Okay, fine.









































































































Good morning.

Good morning.
Good morning.

































Okay, that can be arranged.













That's good.



















A signed agreement is worth more than that.

Eat better.


















Then it's okay.




















































Yeah, well, I'm not gonna miss it and I'm gonna blow your nose in the morning, and I'm not gonna miss it.

































Okay.































Only a good lawyer can get a good boxer on the right track.










Honestly. It's better this way.








It's a hard job to dance, isn't it?






Would you mind if I left early tonight?




Okay...





































That's a very good idea, isn't it, Fanny?
I'll give you a better idea.


























Oh, Fanny, why can't we be friends?
I'll always be your friend, Jerry.













There's no better actress than you, Fanny!











Yes, darling.

























Find manager McCloskey, and tell him they can take a rematch, and the sooner, the better.



Okay, just don't worry.
























































































Well, honey, don't be too late.

Okay.




You better get out of here before he kicks you out.
























My dear son! Your handkerchiefs are under your shirts.




















Mom. Mommy, darling, my love will pass through the years with you.








I'm facilitating my mom's work.





















It's better to be deaf than blind, isn't it?

What are you doing tonight?

















If you marry the person you're thinking about, everything's gonna be okay.



Dear parents, I married a wonderful girl, a waitress at a big restaurant.













Get changed and get to work!
The reapers will come tomorrow morning!







Women like you can only love for profit. But you won't get anything from me! So go back to Chicago!






















Let's get to work.










If you marry the person you're thinking about, everything's gonna be okay.

















A woman in love doesn't make a mistake in her room the way you do.

I'll treat you better than old Tastin lets Lem deal with you!
I knew from the beginning that you were an indecent woman!

























I pulled people out of work, and we left wheat to go missing in the fields.








Maybe when I leave, they'll get to work and save the harvest.

















































It's better for me to live with a girl like you.




Your work helps us live.




























You found a good man.









You can tell me the truth.










I don't know, he came out this morning and didn't come back.



















It would be better for you and Yasue to work and live honestly.


If you're sure of your decision, look for honest work.











I'm gonna have to find a new job.
Yasue and Kenji are looking for a job now.
Isn't it a nice car?

Now you're working for a good society.
You must have prepared a lot for this job.

And finally, Kenji's work...
How brave is he gonna finish this job?



You should call him from work.








He found a modest job, and if we call him, he won't come.


We were friends.




I didn't think you were both so blind that you wouldn't see a good thing.




I also couldn't imagine how you took that job.
I'd rather you saw me when I had a better job.
You shouldn't be ashamed, it's honest work.































That's my best brush.























You think you're a good host?






































- Don't move, I'll do the work...























How did you get here at 4:00 a.m. all by yourself?



- This party will teach you a good lesson.





That's it, okay.






Well, brother, that's my job. I'm a party girl.








- It's a lovely night, isn't it?




- Okay.






















That's good.






Okay. - Let him send the car, silly.


Okay.



- Because even best friends don't tell him that.

















- One of my friends asked me for the studio.


- No, Father. Everyone at this party was short-cut, even women.

He's a woman and she's a man.





- John, darling.













It's thanks to the work you did.










- That's a pretty good word, isn't it?








Okay, chin up, Miss Arnold.













































- Finish the circus and let's get to work.




























- Okay, okay.









- Hey, honey.
- Hello, darling.














- She's a little funny, isn't she, darling?


Maybe I can offer you a better name.


















- I have a better idea.



- Honey, that means yes.








You remember that nice place we went to Chicago... come on, I'll show you a nice girl, darling.


















I was at one of those noisy diners last night.





















It was his idea for a good time.












I'm just part of his work, like paint and brushes.









Look, call me at 4, okay?













Good morning. What's up, Jerry?



And I think our old friend Napoleon is still home.
If that's true, I think I could spend this beautiful Sunday morning pulling the Nappy.

You'd better go.
You can take the bottle with you, but I have some work to do.
- Work?

Work.

Okay! - Anything?
- You didn't give up your Hope, did you?













I found it on the toilet table this morning.












And most women are over 18 since they were born.
- A man who knows everything about women.








Josephine was your source, and you knew that, didn't you?

Good morning, Josephine.


















- Maybe you'll have a free evening sometime?
















Good buddy, this Napoleon.

- It's a job, you know. - Work?





- Okay, I'll remember that.

Let's get to work.






























But the first night you slept, you looked like another woman.




























Let's get back to work.





Tonight?









- The woman who comes here all the time, who is she?


















There are good strawberry cakes here.





- I didn't want to tell you, Mr. Standish, but I'm terribly glad that Kay wasn't here when you called tonight.






















Okay, Min.






- He didn't introduce you to any of his hobo friends?
















- You've never kept anything from me before, darling.



I wish I'd never met him.


















- Hey, honey.


We're gonna be working all night.










He seems to be a friend of this artist and doesn't want to look like a rival.







Besides, we're working overtime tonight.










- Amazing, isn't it?






- What's good about them?
- A lot of good.





It's good to do.
















- No, I just wish I could finish the job.











I wish I was dead.














I know it's exhausting work.

It's a great job.


















- Okay.























I think you'd better stay here tonight.









If you feel better, we'll start early in the morning.




















- Good morning.
- Good morning.





















- Good morning, Jerry.
- Good morning, Father.








Doesn't the railways work this morning?















We talked about this last night.



I have a lot of work to do.




That's what we talked about last night, too.























































Let's get to work.

































- It's like I was born again this morning.












Tonight.






























Let's be friends.



Someday we'll come back with our children.




- Okay.
















Tonight in Arizona.
Never mind, darling.





Okay.













I've got a job.
















































































All his friends turn their backs on him.
- Friends?

















He better be poor.

I wish he was hopelessly ill, and everyone forgot about him.

- I think you're not so bad in general, my dear.
































And I will always remember you, my dear.





- Goodbye, my dear.




























































Come on, darling. - But I'm not ready yet.



















Well... first... we wake up every morning at dawn.

























- Okay.



















- Don't worry about me. You shouldn't be worried that you're traveling with a woman who's been devastated.
I know my business better than anyone.











- Okay.










- Very good, Miss Pinkham.

- Okay, Miss Pinkham.










- Okay, here's the text:

































- A woman overboard!

- A woman overboard!


- Hey, there's a woman over there!



Open your eyes, darling.




Open your eyes, darling.

It's gonna be okay, honey.













You're so beautiful you found a good place in town?




She's got a good place there...

Well... she'll quickly restore the good color of her face... March 21st day of St Benedict's.






Every night in a suffocating atmosphere of drinking and artificial fun.

It's a good thing Tonka's back, 'cause these guys started eating.













A woman...?


I wanted a woman...







To be a little kid again, the courage of Edie...





































I knew one Tonka was a beautiful woman. I wouldn't comfort a person sentenced to death...












You're not that good.


You're all my children.





















Oh, good, hot.



Let's kiss. Am I good for you?


There's nothing good about these Bavarians.
























































































































































































Good evening!


















Okay, then we'll both play.






Okay, let's play again.



































We'll have to wait all morning.











This morning...


I've been running all over this place since yesterday morning.


Don't worry about it, make some coffee.


















Of course, people have no idea how everyone wants to eat... everyone hang on to each other.

But what would a woman do in this terrible city?
















You can't leave a woman alone that long.





Tell me something good.



























"Hello, dear Homeland!"









































Where's my friend, the student?


























All the information confirms our assumption that the enemy will attack in the morning.















































- Can I choose who goes? - Okay.






























Say something good, for God's sake!










I have five kids at home.



I'm... a friend... not an enemy... not an enemy... of water...



































We went out together this morning and called four more.



















The life of many women, the elderly, the children depends on your sacrifice and on everyone's recognized courage.






Do you realize that no child has survived? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Hundreds of old men and women have died!













How nice...









For them, the life of a woman, that is, any woman, was no more valuable than a crushed fly...







But it's my job!

















Nice toast.




Look, old boy, the night's just getting started, so here's what we decided.



I'd better go straight home.

































Nothing, darling.









He's much better.





He's got good manners and he can be nice whenever he wants.





I'd look better then.





It's like being married, isn't it?















I was with friends.





















































It's a good thing tomorrow he'll bring the money he promised.


























It's better to do it neatly, but not at all, especially since you're not a rookie in this case.


When I see a good guy like you in a nice car next to an old wallet, don't tell me it's your cousin from the province, and you save on gas.









Yeah, one of the guys we met one night, and, buddy, he's got a lot of money.
























I don't believe it. Really.



Afraid I'll have money for women?













I told her that's how we're gonna see each other more.





Be a friend, pay the bill.
What a wonderful evening.

























Honey, Maurice almost got up when he saw the light.

























They say they're good, so they have to be worth something.







What's her name really?





















































And since you gave them to me, darling... do you think it's right to sell them that way?






I know Langlar's friends.






But if you really want to, we'll have to go sometime, because now you really are, someone.

















You meet a high society and we've reached out to a lot of good collectors, so I guess it's time for you to draw some portraits.

Why? We know what's good for our artists.





Play us something good.













Clara, darling, this is Monsieur Dugode.
What a wonderful evening!



Isn't she special?





















Kiss me better.






Okay.















































It's better to just leave.












We're going to the theater tomorrow night.






11:00 tomorrow night?

















That's better.













But law enforcement officials have a right to the truth.



Scared of violence, the woman called for help.











You'll be with your friends in 40 minutes.













Okay, darling.











Yeah, he's my friend.


















Next morning




I didn't know that women were so unhappy and that there were always men around who were willing to take advantage of their mistakes.




















You're not a woman.



















Out of the way, kids.









































They usually cause trouble, it's better to have a quiet home life.






Okay, you're a lawyer, so let them understand.









You admitted that Lulu was talking about money that night, and there's information that you had a violent fight.




I'd find a better one.






You weren't there, were you?







Oh, well, I've had a few troubles like all the kids, even the best.
Yeah, I took money from women, but they were happy to give it to me.



And it was better than washing floors or working in a factory.
















Find a job without such temptations.
All right, monsieur.














































It's probably better for her.























This morning my father was supposed to read you a farewell sermon, but he's sick, as you all know, and today I can't be with you.













































And you're crazy, woman.











Are you afraid of the truth?









































































































A cup of good coffee.











Beethoven wrote his best symphony while he was deaf.
Oscar Eild wrote his best poem, sitting in jail.
























Good evening.




Good evening. The two of you?


































A man, a woman.







































- Is he really blind?
































I want you to turn around and smile at each other.





































- I really can, Mr. Ornsby.






















So, if you want to regulate me, you'd better learn what I'm saying.













































































I thought you wouldn't mind if I told her the good news.







- It's too expensive for us.
























































- Do you think Sir Walter-Ailey would leave a woman in the rain on a night like this?





























If you don't count Mrs. Figgins, you're the first woman to come here.










But I know my sister's voice as well as her face.




































And why don't you listen to a really good music?

Allow me to introduce my friends:





























































































He's looking for a job.























- Is that true?
- Of course, really.












I thank you, and so does El. I'll be at the temple in the morning.


I think you'll be better off working at home.













Oh, my darlings!
Tonight I'll tell you a story about whether you want a ginger beer or a light rum?


There is no greater sin than preventing drinking with one another!

































I'm sick of the hard work I'm doing, and all the cream you two are collecting.





























Where does Sister's Ellon drive after service in the evenings?





- You like your job, don't you?















































And now you've got all the money you wanted." You've got a great apartment, a car, a chauffeur, and all the dresses and trinkets a woman can wish for.







And what do you do when I'm in the evenings after the service?

And, uh, yeah, where I feel good.










- Where are you going tonight?


And the third night is wiser.
























































Since I was here last night, there's a man among us who's so famous that I don't need an introduction.























































And the title: Sister Halon sent me to the watering ground. I got up at 4:00 a.m. on purpose to bring you an ezemble.





























As I was this evening, you dreamt he was going to the paper when it happened.























Why didn't you tell me you were leaving last night?











I'm sorry to be so selfish... but last night I forgot, thousands of hours of people who need you, too.






























I've told you the truth-- that's the only decent thing I've done since I met you.


You're a good me, you're a real me.



























































































She'll find out the truth the next time she sees you.












That's nice, isn't it?















































I'd be sad myself, but it's all for us to have a good time together.

















































































That's good, John.





















- On stage, I'll tell the people I'm telling the truth.
































































































Unfortunately, her education leaves much to be desired.

My son-in-law is certainly a good man.



















Be diligent and obedient to get a good certificate.






Thank you for your concern for this child.







- Okay, Marga.
Tomorrow morning you'll bring me some water to wash.



















"Tell me, is it true she's kissing you for the night?"











Nice new girl, isn't she?






































That's good.




Okay.












Money shouldn't be kept in children's homes.

It's great, isn't it?











































Kids are already complaining about hunger.


They're soldiers' children.





















The children are so mild-hearted that your sheep






























I never would have sent my kids to boarding school.
































Pray every night and ask God for help.



















"My dear, my dear Mia









I'm trying to be a friend to kids.




The purpose of our education is to awaken ambition in children.







I have no reason to punish children, they listen to me and learn well.







She's always among the best in my class.
Although I don't feel comfortable talking about it myself, until now, the results of my training have always been good.
Yeah, very good.





But the kids have to trust us.



"He wanted to return to his native Canaan with the wives of Rachel and Leah and the children."











Okay. Sit down.






Okay. Sit down.


































- Stupid kid.

















And I'm thinking about the time when I'm gonna grow up and leave school, and you're gonna kiss other girls every night.






Be a good comrade.










You can't even imagine how beautiful it is to live for you kids.























"Dear parents, it's a terrible Sunday again.






Well, kids... - It's a lovely Sunday, isn't it? - Yeah, very much.


Very good.


Okay.
Very good.

Very good.

- Goodbye, children.












































Kids who lie and secretly send letters can't play school theater.



Your parents didn't have to grieve for an ungrateful child.




























- Good evening, children.
- Good evening, Madam Director.






You made a good mess!




































Kids, listen up! Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh.






If you try hard, you'll make a very good actress.

The kids were playing out of the blue today. - That was so sweet!
It's a good opportunity for girls to learn Schiller's poems.


The kids are very lucky to be here under your guidance.


















Okay, okay.

Tell the kids to be quiet?







































That kid doesn't belong in our school.











My dear, you're not gonna risk your position for this kid, are you?



























Manuela should be among the children.
















































- Thank you, okay.



- Okay, thanks.












What a beautiful view - so many happy children


- Yes, my dear, I remember.
Dear Director, I'd like to see Beckendorf.





Dear Director, now Meinhardis

She was a very religious woman.






Dear Director, I'd like to talk to you about nursery.


Goodbye, children.








I know Manuela and others better than you.
I'm close to these kids.



In such cases, we write a letter to the child's mother.













Manuela's a good friend!









Dear Fraulein von Bernburg...

Okay.




















Madam Director thought it was the best thing to do.





It's better for you.














Goodbye, dear Fraulein von Bernburg.















I can't watch you turn these girls into scared, helpless children anymore.



















What are the kids doing here?


The children prevented a tragedy that we both would regret for the rest of our lives.






















I'll send my best man right away.










- Okay.






























Just after the dance. If we weren't such close friends...


































































Good evening, Signorita!
You're very successful with women...




































Last night, there was a ball...




























































Meet your French friend... this Maurice Candele.


Hello, my friend!
What a good night it was last night!























"Pearls," my dear!






















- Were you at the ball last night?


I played mini baseball with my friends.























Good idea, Billy.



































When I got up this morning, I kind of...















- Okay, I'll talk to her.



Look, don't forget, little Nick is lucky with women, too.


















































































































Look, maybe I'd better if I didn't send her, so I'm not gonna lose anything anyway.








































- Good morning.
- Good morning.












Do you happen to know which room the big poker game is in tonight?









It's a quarter or better if you have one.
These are very good ones.



Well, they're good.























- Okay.
























Even better, strategizing with a six.








It's awful to see a pretty girl like you lose your job.
























Would you like to have dinner with me tonight?

My mother won't let me go out in the evening.



I really can't.


- Really?

It's one of the best sea kitchens I've ever been to.
























Okay, Nick.

We get along great, don't we?
























Well, okay, if you insist.




















- Okay, Nick.





























Very good, Hicory.














Look, Nick, we're all friends here.


- Okay.













Okay, Nick.







































- Good morning, Mr. Venizelos.
- Good morning.
































You know, it's not that hard when you have friends.



I figured you'd be the best company.






- Okay.






















Okay, I'm staying.




















Okay, I'll equalize it.


The kings are good, I suppose.





























Well, good.






































They stole money belonging to my friends.

All right.


















So, did you get a job?






It's gonna be okay.
You'll find a job.







I'm sorry, Mr. Amenoppopolus, but I had to talk to an old friend.







Nice weather.










Okay.

















- It's true, isn't it?


Tell you what, Alex: If it's good enough for you, it's good for me to take the risk.























- Okay, you want money for them?








I don't think she's very good either.

































Okay.





Okay.






















Okay.










You better put them in the center, 'cause that's how much I'm gonna bet.



Well, they're good, and I'm clean.






































I suppose you're very happy this morning, Mr Venizelos.
































Okay.






You'll get the other half on the other side of the road if you're a good boy.

I'm not gonna be good, I'm gonna be perfect.

















Besides, aren't they still my friends?




- Good evening, guys.
- Good evening, boss.





Look, you're not gonna give me another key for my friend?






Good evening.

- Good evening.
- Good evening.








































































































There was a whistle, and every time he whistled, the sawmill stopped working.


Is there a law against barbering?












































And women, too.


I've heard about how charming you and the women are, Mr. Venizelos, but rumors only say part of it.
Well, I think it's worth a drink, don't you think?




And the most charming woman I've ever met.


I've never said no to a woman in my life.
































No woman's ever gonna make me look like a sucker again.



































































Haven't you had enough trouble with the women you weren't asking for?

But you have to admit that their society is terribly good.








He picks up a woman every week to practice.




The doctor said you might have pulmonary inflammation.
Even the doctors hold him for a sucker.





























Your friend doesn't like me very much.







- I was working, but I lost my job.













It's nothing, really.


















Not before you get better, and there'll be blood on those cheeks.


You get orders from me, I get orders from a doctor.
By the way, the doctor is coming to see you during the day.

Now be a good girl.













- I have good news for you, Snake Ice.




- Good morning.
- Good morning.


Okay.

- Do you really like it?

























And the longer you stay here, the better it will be for me.








But I didn't tell you the whole truth about myself.

I didn't tell you the whole truth about myself either.





































































































































He's got good manners for a cop.






























I've always been a sucker for women.






























































Okay, Poole.












- Very good.


Dr. Lanyon will guide me.

- Hello, Dr. Jekyll.









I bet your friend's up to something again, Dr. Lanyon.









Let's call it a good side.





So if these two sides of a person could be separated from each other... imagine how much free good would be in us.





















- My dear friend, be reasonable.






















All right, sir.


All right, sir.






Sometimes the doctor has to hurt you a little, so you'll be okay later.

And if the doctor thinks a little surgery is necessary, then... you don't have to be afraid, do you?






















- Okay, miss.

- Dr. Jekyll likes them, Dad.





Dr. Lanyon.












- A woman in free wards.



Nonsense, my dear.











Racing is good, Jekyll, but calculation is better.


































































Before that, my job was everything to me.











- My dear friend.











- Goodbye, my dear.


- See you tomorrow for tea, my dear.













































































I wish he hadn't done it!








That's not very good.



You're someone a woman could do something for.








I don't know the best place to sleep.
Okay.





You see, I'm a doctor, and that's a reward for my help.

You'll be back soon, won't you?





You're coming back, aren't you?







































So, Poole, you didn't come here to look after my health, did you?



All right, sir.












You'll be back soon, won't you?









Dr. Jekyll! Sir!






My friend.




























Of course I love you enough, darling.






























































I saw you as soon as you walked in, my dear.


You're really pretty.


To you, darling.







- Swinner, isn't it?








Sit down, my dear.













































Forgive me, my dear.
















He says Dr. Jekyll hasn't responded to any letter from Miss Muriel.








Have a good day.































- Okay, sir.




You're not lying to me, are you, my bird?









I'm not good enough for you!





My dear, sweet, pretty bird, tell me you hate me.














I have some bad news for you, my dear.















My dear, you surprise me.

Well, you probably wouldn't have let me go at night, would you?




No, my dear, I'm not going anywhere right now.
I'm going to spend the evening here with you, just as you wish.



Last night's always the warmest, you know.




- Is that okay with you, darling?















- Very good, sir.

























- It's from my master, Dr. Jekyll, Miss.
- It wasn't Dr. Henry Jekyll's?


Have a good day, miss.
I don't know Dr. Jekyll.



Fifty pounds from the famous Dr. Jekyll.



































































Very good.

Come to dinner tomorrow and we'll officially celebrate with our friends.








Poole, my dear friend!


















The young woman I sent the envelope to, sir.








Who would have thought I'd go to the famous Dr. Jekyll?













Pretty, isn't it?





























You're good, I know.
























Mostly, there will be friends and close friends of General Carey.






- Okay.


My dear, of course, I wish you great happiness.
- Thank you, Dr. Lanyon.














On a night like this, my dear?


Come on, darling.





And for Dr. Jekyll... always thinking about Ivy.


You didn't think I was coming back, did you?









You wanted him to love you, didn't you?








There was no one there but me and Dr. Jekyll.




Now listen, my dear.






















I'm a friend of Dr. Jekyll's.





My dear, I can't say how sorry I am... but I hope with all my heart that Jekyll can explain everything.
















- Good evening, sir.


- Really?






- I'm from Dr. Jekyll.






Excuse me, Dr. Lanyon.

Dr. Jekyll sent me.





I need to be sure that Dr. Jekyll is safe and secure.







Take me to Dr. Jekyll, or you won't leave this room.






I'll be sure of Dr. Jekyll's safety or you'll answer for it.


Very good, Lanyon.






- Very good, Lanyon.
















































Dr. Jekyll's here.













































































































It's a weapon, Doctor.























- But, Doctor, that's impossible.













Dr. Jekyll.












It's the truth.













Yeah... I killed Morange my best friend.





























I'm pulling you out of work.


































































Oh, dear lieutenant!


















And now you see, dear lieutenant, that you can live here... then it was a real disaster.







It's the only European here, except you, my dear...













Soon enough, he'll be in a better world. Too much kiffa...















A woman, you know?

All women, my dear friend...


Cheers, my dear lieutenant.












Like kids!
It's like kids!



















































Oh, Captain, if I were the first love for a woman...


Do you understand that? Enough! I demand an answer from you where my friend is.
Your friend! Your friend! Ask Antinea.

Good evening, my friend!


Is it good of you to scare me like that?
Drink, my friend!











When you become queen, Clementine, I hope you... always have a place for an old friend.








Not a word, my dear lieutenant.

































Where's my friend?






Women are chosen here.



You and your friend.


To see your friend!












Peace be upon you, my friend!




Come to bed, my friend!




Peace be upon you, my friend!


















































Okay.
























Your next opera will be called 20 years of hard labour.








All right, my friend... just remember what's gonna happen to you after that.



















Oh, really?











I'm giving a ball tomorrow night.





Really.
























Good morning.






This time I have a good description of him.


































































I can't just go out and tell my friends that the house is described because I owe a couple of francs?

My dear friend, if I can't pay, what difference does it make if it's half a penny or 10 million?











I'll make you a room and pay you in the morning.




Great party, isn't it?





All the doors and windows are under surveillance, and four of our best guests.















Really?












But, dear lady, didn't you break them when you stepped on my bed?



















The doctor brought you in a black bag and left you at the pink bush, and your mother found you and called you...






































Okay, if you insist...



Really?










Really?





He's my best friend.











































































Oh, my friend, you're crazy.




















Funny, isn't it?










And if it weren't for my friends, we don't know how this would end.
























Dear sir, if you are you, I will apologize to you as sincerely as you did.



























































Oh, so your people were here all night?

My dear friend, this is a very clever decision.
































My dear Gerchard, all my apologies will not be enough...

















Shameras is leaving town tonight with Görney Martin.




Okay.























I completely forgot about my two dear guests.















And I'll give you a couple of good phone numbers.

























All right, sir.



























Okay.






















My friend, you not only surprised me, you also gave me food for thought.






Not here, darling.








Honey...


If you don't wake up after what I'm about to do to you, I don't think you're a woman at all.


When I woke up this morning, there was a beautiful bracelet in my room and this note...

"My dear Countess!
Beautiful women shouldn't wear fake diamonds.




Okay.











Amazing, isn't it?

































But, my dear child, we are all interested.















Good evening.





















See you in the morning.





































Really?










But I don't think he'd ever take from a woman what she's not ready to give.

















Sonia, darling.




















































All right, get them in the house.



Okay.

My dear friend, the cops who were here yesterday, they're not my people.
































































































I will release any of you who will tell the truth...













































No, my dear sir.

All right, now we're gonna find out the truth.
Sonia, did you act on instructions last night?




Is that true?












We talked till morning.


















Tell me, isn't that great?















She was released on parole to do this little job for me.







Take this woman back to prison.




Come on, don't be afraid, tell them the truth.


Of course she's lying, but she's gonna tell the truth, and when she does, you're gonna go to jail, Mr. Arsen Lupin.
















I have an approach to women.














But it's not enough to stop this lady from walking with me tonight.





Isn't that okay?



























Okay.









































All right, let him go.






All right, search him.

































Oh, good, good.




























Oh, darling, don't say anything stupid.










Okay, lady.






She's gonna save six of my friends who were arrested because of me.


Come on, darling.












































Okay, okay.
















Okay.




































Are you capable of doing this to an innocent child?























Okay.



It's my job.





I have a job, and I'm going to do it.

Okay...




You're a much better thief than a liar.
































It's a good time to leave.





































We've been exhausted since this morning.


















































- Thank you, Doctor.

Dr. Pierce, I have an unusual request for you.


You have a good reputation here. I thought my body might interest you before and after my meter.


















- Do you have children?



I've been approached recently by a friend from Germany.










Doctor, what do you think the price would be?








No, doctor, thank you.























My friends and I were on a hiking trip. So we approached the dragon sitting in the car, who told us there was a magical water in the woods.














I went to the theater that night. There was music.








- Yes. Later that night.

























Just a few weeks of my work, and you can leave, and then we'll figure out a way to stay there until you're fully recovered.



















Thank you, darling. I'll see you later.


Mr. Smith, what about the job?

















Who's your friend?













































That's good.






Okay, okay, wait.
































For the first time tonight, Belokura Venus.

Nope. Mr. O'Connor said he'd help me with my work.









Good drinkers are usually bad drivers.






It's the name "Blonde Venus" that did its job.





















Okay, Rudolph, do it your way.
















You better stay out of trouble, or you're gonna have to get a place in the hospital.


What a lovely evening.
Okay, monster.







- Hey, Nick, honey.



- Not bad. Really, Henry?















My good friend, Mr. Nick Townsend.








































You're embarrassing me. You'd better go, I need to change.
What are we gonna do tonight?





















You'd better go and get some sleep.





















- Goodbye, darling.







- Okay, Daddy. Goodbye.

















- Okay, Mr. Townsend.















- More than that, she's got a kid.
- The baby? - My husband went to Europe for treatment.


Neither her nor her child was home the whole time. And no one knows when she'll be back.





How are you, darling?













After I let her know, I gave her a job...




My word is worth more than money. I'll lose a lot of money if she leaves.


O'Connor's job isn't for you.

Who's gonna do that if you keep working?


A friend of mine left town, his apartment is empty.











- Okay, Mrs Collins.
How are you? - I don't complain either. Nice day.


































Have a nice walk.







The time spent with you was worth a lifetime living with any other woman.

























Really?




















































If you and your friend try to stop me, I'll take the case to court, and you'll find out who's worth raising.
I'm a good mother.
























She checked out this morning without leaving a new address.







































You better not be looking for a job in this town if you don't want to be found.






Don't worry, I've got a baby myself.
































A woman who leads such a lifestyle does not have the right to raise a child.

I haven't found a job yet.




She's got a kid, too.



























































Doctor, lawyer... I give up.





No, this time it's a woman with a baby, but she gave us the heat, I have to admit.








The more she moves, the more she changes her job.

She changes her job like gloves.






She's leading a life that's not fit for a little kid.






























Okay, Mommy, I'll wait.
Is that your baby?









And tell my husband I'm not giving up the baby because he's stalking me, but because he's not worthy of being a mother.


I can't do anything but give up the baby before it's too late.














It's the fruit of my life's work.


I beg you to stay away from Johnny.

It's the only way you can be a good mother to him.









Be a good boy and go with Daddy.









































I didn't say, did I?

























Funny, isn't it?





That's better.
































































It wasn't easy, and I'm not gonna ruin my job.

You're not so good with money, are you?













































It was spring in Germany, and you and your friends were camping.

I was camping with my friends. As I recall, I was very happy.













That night you went to the theater?



I didn't know women well at the time.


I don't know, Johnny, honey.







You have to kiss each other.


Okay, Dad.




























I'm staying here at the Grand Hotel, Berlin's most expensive hotel.









How are the kids?


Okay.



















It's a very expensive place.

I can't, I'm gonna get kicked out of work.






































Good evening.


- Good evening.








I'm Dr. Zinnowitz.


- Dr. Zinnowitz.











Make a good impression.



I can't, Dr. Zinnovitz.

I'm an honest businessman, a good husband and father.







- No, Doctor.

- No, Doctor.









- No, Doctor.















- Nice low-cost number.






















Mr. Kringelein will take room one hundred and seventy-six, one of the most expensive.












Allow me to introduce you, Dr. Otternschlag.
Doctor?
Doctor, I'm sick.


















































- We'll be friends.
- Friends, Baron?





Even when you and your high-ranking friends?
- I don't have any friends, Kringelein.

- your friend.

























Work.













































All right, let's dance.




















It's very expensive, but it doesn't matter.



















- Okay.














- Doctor?






































































- Is the hall really full?













As soon as she hears the music, everything's gonna be okay.















- Okay.




Good evening.


































































'Cause I'm looking for a job.





You're beautiful, you could do other work.


I've got a good figure, I've got a lot of pose.













A friend took me to Switzerland.

It must be nice out there.

- Same friend?






Okay.








Come in the morning, and we'll finish this before the meeting.


I wish I hadn't worked tomorrow.























Okay.














Okay.














































































No, Doctor.

Doctor.













Good morning.

Yes. Okay.

The Grand Hotel. Good morning.
Nine thirty, Dr. Otternschlag.
No, Doctor.


Good morning.































































Okay.




























- Really?
- Really.


























You'd better go.















- Good morning.







Good morning.
Honey.
Pymen. Beautiful morning.
Yeah, very good.




Our train is tomorrow morning.
































It's morning.
















Good morning.


































































Yes, Dr. Waits...








































- Really?



I don't know women very well.



- Good evening, Miss Flemm.





- Really?





Really?
























Thanks, man.









Believe me, Mr. Kringelein, a man without a woman... is not a life.









































Good evening, Mr. Prysing.














Miss Flemchen, I want to talk to you about your work.

In the morning? - Nope.























I think you'd better go.










Really?











Yes. Work.

























































































































Why don't we go to the casino tonight?






- Isn't that weird?

Sorry, friend.


























- Is that true?

Is the Baron really having financial troubles?


























































It's expensive and good.






















Doctor.












- You're healthy and happy, that's good, but trust me, if you don't know death, you don't know life. - Fine.









How is he, Doctor?






It's okay.










































I really have to go.






























































































You're the best friend of sweet Mr. Kringelein.
































































The scandal with this woman will destroy me.













I'll give you a very good position.


















- Three o'clock in the morning, madam.













I'm gonna be a normal woman, very simple, very quiet and happy.










Honey, why aren't you picking up?








- Let's get to work, guys.

















- Yes, Doctor.















- Good morning.
- Good morning.




Okay.






Good morning.





















Really?









- Really?
- Yeah, really.






- Really?















Do you think you'll be as happy with me as you are with Prysing?

- Really?


You're a good man, Mr. Kringelein.
Very good.







































Grand Hotel, darling.
This way, darling.


Good morning.











The baby was born, boy.
















- Doctor. Goodbye.









































Are you feeling better?

Good enough to finally introduce yourself?






Yeah, I'm so smart that I'm one of those drunk journalists who still manage to keep their jobs.




























Really?





Really.





















I have to be at the club early in the morning.














He's a good reporter, but he's a terrible scratcher.


























































We'd better sit down.













You said the same thing last night.









I was just advertising the best of Prentisse's products.











When we were still home, you said you were sad about a woman once.


I was really sad about a woman once.





















You better be as good at your brain as you are at your feet.











Because, my dear, I'm going to get married.





That's where you're wrong, V. I'm really happy.







































Okay.






































You'd better hold me.


Let's get to work.




First of all, he's not worth it. Second of all, it was a good shot. And third, spit on it.




Really, Buck?













Of course, darling.

Okay.





















Okay.










Parents resist when they have to give up their daughter, Corbett, the only child.




She's just a kid.
I'm not a kid.





























You'd better get out.

















































































Yes, darling?












You never believe that women don't let you fall down.






It's true. I'm dead and I'm in heaven, or maybe soon I'll have some fried chicken in South.



20 years of experience, Mrs. Legree, in the best hotels.









- Okay.




My dear friend, I go shopping better than you, and you wipe the floors better than I do.



















Honey, if the canned knife slips a little more, you'll be a poor widow by tonight.


























Honey.




I see, my friend, you know the lead singer.
Yeah, yeah, we're old friends.









It would be better if I went out alone, not with DeBryon.







I think it'd be better if I had a curtain specifically for me.




It's okay, it's okay, Jane.

Okay, Miss Claire.








Okay.
























Okay, I'm coming.



Honey!









































Stay with him, okay?






Okay.






























Are you really happy here?






















































Really, you have no idea how cute you are.








Joanie, I think you're the best person in the world.










Really?






No woman would forgive what I did.



I wish you hadn't done that, Joan.







I spent all morning thinking that we live in a modern world where old-fashioned wives have no place.

















Okay.






















Mrs. Corbett is such a nice woman.







All right, let's go.






A free life, separate beds and a couple of lousy phrases in the morning.


About the beautiful spoon between your scapulas, darling. (*play of words : desression - 1. depression ; 2. spoon )




It's true.




Okay, but next time a woman tells me she doesn't want to stop...











Yeah, I get it, Doctor.

No, Doctor.



The doctor's gone?




Did the doctor prescribe it?









Hello, darling.
























Look, this isn't my regular job.


Are you okay?








































Besides, we agreed not to be jealous of each other.




Really.








There's something else I've been trying to tell you all night, but now you won't know.





The best thing you can do for me is stay here.








That's the best thing she's ever...





You really need a drink.






































































I'm the father of her child.

Because the baby's dead.

It's true.

















Are you feeling better, darling?































I'd rather have a whole bottle.





Good evening, Captain!
Good evening, sir.



Okay.























































More like admiring each other.

































































My best friends...






My friend, some of the survivors of the last crash are still here.







































All right, Martin, don't drink all night.












Russians aren't the best mechanics.




So, briefly, he was born, married, why he left his job.

































































It is, my dear, the hunt has clouded other passions.






























If he says it's good, it's good.

He's a good master and a real expert, isn't he, Count?


Okay. Just tell me I'm yours.





Okay, change the subject.











Talking about wine and women as foreplay for hunting.




"First catch the enemy, then the woman."


That a woman...
Even a woman like that until the blood is fuelled by a murder.


















I heard him leave at night and come back this morning.



























My dear, you're excusing yourself.



He's sending us to bed every night like we're naughty kids.
What are you, darling, no.
Charming kids.










Dear Rainsford, I'm so careless.
























We're friends, no more secrets, right?


Just you and me. Friends...


































Full, full, dear Rainsford.























I come up with respect-- good food, preparation, everything to get in great shape.
























Four in the morning.
























All right, I'll take her with me.































































































Yeah, very good, Ransford.
Very good.












My dear Rainsford, congratulations.



























You're leaving, darling?

Hey, kids are coming today.









- Family... are people who have to live together under the same roof and who hate each other.







Dad's keeping you, isn't he?






















And then we'll pick up the kids from the station.










I'll never live with another woman.

























- I'd rather throw myself in the river.















It's good to have a good mother.


















I'm at the children's station.








Yeah, weird kid.




But it must be true if Madame Lepic says so.


I think it's too late for the baby to be born.

But he's not such a bad kid at all.







No worse than any other child.





























Insult me in front of the children!










Keep working.

























In that case, Red, you can do it every night.
- Good night, darling.


























We need to understand each other so we can work together.





Okay.










In the meantime, I give you good advice:









I'm going, too, okay?


Can you do that, darling?





He's rude to Madame Lepic's friends, so they don't come here.








- He's a good young man.
















Okay?













































Is the water good?








Good.



















- Are you okay?





















O you maidens of the village and all the surrounding areas, dress up in the best mansions.



















































Come on, darling.






Tell me, darling, who do you love more?






























All his homework is on him, and others are having fun, playing classics, or launching a kite.



















Children are so unhappy that they kill themselves.





Really?












It's just for poor kids.
















You heard frogs when you passed by tonight.

























Okay.

































Very good.








That's how much my children respect me!



















And to what do I deserve such a child?




























Leave the baby alone!

I told you to leave this kid alone.




With this spoiled kid?











































Put on all the best, Sunday.




















































































































Better than today, you'll never be.







- Very good.























































That people shouldn't have children if they're not able to love them.




Half an hour ago, Red and I were talking like old friends.





































- Your truth.







Really.







You'll spend your old age with a woman who likes to make others miserable.











Dad's a good dad.
A mother is a good mother.

























- Okay.


Okay, Ed.









I know your thoughts better than you.









Well, be a good boy and don't "think" about it.












Better do it now.










We had a deal tonight.































































The farm is supposed to be so good and quiet.










Really?













Women in large deficits.




He's expecting a woman like me.



























Mine has Buick and Ford, and a helper for hard work.















It's a long way from Montreal, isn't it?



























Well, that's good, but I'm carrying the loss.





















"Dear children, we are gathered here under the eyes of our Father to unite this man and this woman in a happy marriage.














You don't go to town often, do you?



Created for work.











You had my picture, didn't you?
I didn't think this was really your picture.

I'll figure it out at work tomorrow.






The roads aren't very good, are they?


We'd better get to bed.













Wedding's a good reason for a drink.




















- He doesn't deserve her, does he?



















- No, really, don't.













- A powerful cider, isn't it?

















































It's been a great night. And we had a great time.



You better go home and get some sleep.




You shouldn't have done that to my friend Forgan.





Everyone loves each other.















I'll take care of it this morning.


Last spring a woman named Hazel looked after the house.
Did a woman live here?












































These are the best seeds there can be.

The best seeds in the world.




And, in the end, there were the best wheat seeds that could be.











Good evening, Mrs. Gilson.
Good evening, Mr. MasDawl.


















My job as a housekeeper doesn't mean extra services.





Okay, okay, okay.

- Good morning.










Is it good to drown?













You hate me, don't you?









Have you ever heard a woman scream?









- Did the doctor come to see you?




Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.










Okay, take a cup and put flour in it.
Having a baby is a nightmare, isn't it?














I don't need anything else, darling.

You'd better go home before it gets dark.


- Yes, darling?







Yeah, I'm fine.







































I'm telling the truth.




You enjoy it when you torture me, don't you?
That's a great joke we played with each other.

We're a good couple.














You're the most desperate woman in the world.














































































































Kids, kids, calm down!


Looking forward, not back, to be careful not to shut yourself up and help your friends.






She was here this morning and I'm sure I saw her in the yard a few minutes ago.




Well, it's a good thing she doesn't run a snag.




















Okay, then take your place.








Hello, Mr Gilmore.

And now I'm happy to give my degree to the best in class, Willie Goldberg.









































Remind me to take them to the master in the morning.


















Hand over your work.




















It's like I'm a kid again.
































I'm really glad you got a job on this show.








I should be the happiest woman in the world.



















- But you have a baby.




















Why don't you go and see for yourself?






We'll play horse in the morning.






Come on, close your eyes like a good boy.



- That's so fucking good.












What a good boy.














Now get to bed and you can get up early in the morning. We'll go watch the goldfish.

























I can try... rub your belt every morning before breakfast.

Don't make jokes, darling. There's got to be some way out.

















Actually, I object, but if you think it's the best way to deal with this situation?


I'll miss him, but maybe it'll be better.
Well... we'll talk about it in the morning.





















It'll even be fun to take care of the baby.













You'll be there at 9:00 a.m.






It's okay, honey.







You're always so sweet to the baby, Bob.



- Goodbye, darling.













We're gonna cure this, aren't we?
















Okay.















- Oh, for Vivien! - Here you go, darling.












In my opinion, you're a real woman.

You have everything in you that makes a woman move forward... and live... and love.









- Oh, honey, I didn't say that.


























Do you really think so, sir?


She shouldn't have hurt our child.

One more drink, darling, and then you have to get dressed.
Okay.





















She took another name and doesn't even let the baby walk.


Don't blame yourself, darling.








She loves the kids and he's gonna love it here with her little girl.































I mean, it doesn't matter what you do, but I don't think it's fair to get a little kid involved.



Ruth has a sister with a little baby.
They can take care of both children. They're great respectable people.


Maybe that's a good idea.




















































Is he really like this?
































































































































Ace will come into my position, won't he, Harv?





































































































Baby... you remember your mom, don't you?

Look, kid... you're ready to help your mom, aren't you?














Message from Robert Kirkwood. Kidnapped by Kirkwood's lawyer, five and a half years old.




Okay.





































The third day of searching for the missing child didn't produce any results.




What would I do if the baby started crying?

































Doesn't look like she's gonna get better.


Kirkwood's baby is still missing.





























It's a live baby.




Baby, baby, wake up, darling.






- Yeah, honey, hurry up.

No, I'm happy, darling.
















Guys... Kirkwood's kid is on the fourth floor.

And my dear mother, wherever she may be, God bless her, and save her from evil.



















Very good.














































But anyway, when the king tells the Marquis that he saw me, the Marquis will tell the Marquis and the Marquis is the Duchess' best friend.






































Well, my best wishes to the Marquis.





If you think it's best for you to leave, well...













He said, "Good evening!
I'm a doctor."
I said, "Doctor?" He said, "Yes, Doctor.









And then I said to myself, "Okay...
















































Honey!
Oh, no, honey.












My dear.










The manufacturer of the best spirits!



































But since we're in each other's company tonight... we could talk.















- It's true.











































- Good morning, Major.
- Good morning.


All right, sir.






Beautiful, isn't it?









It's gonna be okay again.










Well, darling, you have to be honest and bring her back to this lady.































A woman who spends her fortune on a purse like this...














Okay, madam.























But, you see, it's a very expensive purse, and you have to be careful.







































It's nothing serious, but at the same time, we better not be testing fate.
- Whatever you say, Doctor.

- Good day, Doctor.
- Good day, Major.




Is Madame taking someone this afternoon, tonight, or even tomorrow?















































































Madame Kole, if I were your father... and fortunately, I am not him... and you would dare take some steps of your own in the business, I would give you a good whipping.





Very good.



I think it's best to increase the amount of the burglary insurance to 850,000 francs.


















Actually, I have to get up early in the morning.


Honey, that means June 2nd... we'll have 850,000 francs.









Okay, Jacques.

Good morning, madam.
Good morning, Mademoiselle.


































And if you could take over some of his work... so he wouldn't be such a shutter in his office.





Oh, no, no, my dear child.




It's better for you and your little brother, too.

Okay, madam.

- And, my dear...

















You sound like a kid.

This woman has more than jewelry!














My dear, remember that you are Gaston Monescu.






Goodbye, dear Gaston.








I wanted to ask her to ask you... to be so kind to have dinner with me tonight.







The evening's just begun.






Okay, okay.




































Your husband and I went to school and we were friends.






























































































































A bird in his hands is better than two in prison.
















I want to order five dozen roses... dark red roses... put them in a basket... and send it to Madame Kole tomorrow morning.


Tomorrow morning at 10:00.


































Okay, madam.




All right, monsieur.




































Okay, I'll call you again.



























Honey!





Tomorrow morning?




That's a funny kind of man who gets hit by women.




































So I said to myself, "Okay...




- And you won't be here tomorrow morning.
- Okay, monsieur.














































Good evening, madam.





















































Very good, madam.












I think you'd better go.

























But tomorrow morning, when you wake up from your dreams... you hear a knock, and the door opens, and there, instead of the maid with breakfast on the tray... there's a police officer standing with a warrant, you'll be happy that you're alone.








With best wishes from Coke and Company.























Bodies raised from graves to work in sugar mills and fields at night.


















Oh, yeah. Come on, darling.

You're expected, Dr. Bruner.




Madeline introduced us to each other at the dock in Port-au-Prince.














Don't think I'm sticking my old nose in someone else's business, but I think you'd better get out of here right after the wedding and never have anything to do with Mr. Beaumont again.
The young men have arrived, sir. And Dr. Bruner.



Perhaps I should meet them.


Especially since Dr. Bruner is a little skeptic of your motives, sir.




You better stay away from this man, sir.















Dr. Bruner, thank you for coming.































Then you're probably talking about the young girl who's staying at your house tonight?


On the road, tonight.

They're supposed to get married tonight.



































I'll make you the happiest of women.

Listen to me, darling, before it's too late.







We are gathered here in the sight of God and the witnesses present here, to conclude the sacred bonds of marriage between this man and this woman.
What a lovely evening!













Come to your senses, darling, please.

































But this, my friend, will never happen...































Do you really think she's alive and in the hands of savages?
Oh, no. Better death than that!














































I have a lot of Aboriginal friends.





















Better hate than that terrible emptiness in her eyes.
































I get it. But we're friends, and I want to move on.


















Get your strength up till morning.

























Now we understand each other better.








Oh, my dear, what did they do to you...


For you, my friend, these are the angels of death.




Madeline, don't you recognize me, darling?



Madeline, my dear.























































Henry's trying to get better.








































Stupid work and this rain.
















The new roommate asked if there was a good job.


Morning






First of all, it's not a place for women.
Did you find a good job?













































































Do you think I'm such a woman?



But Henry comes home late and drinks every night.









Go home and learn to be a good father.
Make up a beautiful name for your baby.
That's what's best.




Poor woman!







Stay away from them, okay?











I'd rather have an old ride.

























































- Okay, tonight.



We've been waiting for you all night.






















It's gonna be okay.
You'll see, tomorrow you'll be much better.

Good evening.
















































On the day we arrived, we noticed women dressed as if they were for a big holiday.









That's how we leave La Albert, where almost everyone's drunk by 7:00 P.M.




















Here are three children eating a piece of bread soaked in water.

It seems the teacher is forcing the children to eat in his presence, fearing that as soon as the children come home, their parents will immediately take away their food.
Children are called to school.
These barefoots, in rags, children receive the same education as any other child in the world who attends primary school.


Here they teach these hungry children, like everywhere, that the sum of the triangle angles is equal to the sum of the two straight angles.
In some villages of Las Hurdes, most children are pilus (orphans).
They're being looked after by Las Hurdes from the social center. The city of Rodrigo, which is two days away from the mountains.
They take care of these kids for 15 pesetas a month.




One of the best students wrote on the board, at our request, one of the maximums of this book.








Look at this woman with the goat:






One of our friends is coming up to see her throat.

































Healthy men who have gotten over the heat of the side are going to Castilla and Extreme to find work in the fields.


They don't have bread, they don't have money, they walk around looking for work.



First, they choose a place near the river bank, and then, with the help of their women, parents and friends, they destroy the wild roses and roses that grow there.











Winter storms could ruin a year's work.




The hurdians make the best fertiliser themselves from dry leaves of strawberries, which are not particularly common in these mountains.

















Dr. Three of the Fabricks in Las Hurdes are currently fighting the disease.
















In comparison with them, the realism of the work of Zurbaran or Ribeira is nothing.



We were able to film it with the help of one of our friends in Las Hurdes, who knew how to approach them.




Women gather for Mass at the dead man's house.










The interior of the best house in the village.


In some villages, a woman walks the streets at night








Here's what this woman says:




The peasants, the workers, the mountain people in the rest of Spain have achieved a better quality of life thanks to the mutual assistance and assistance of the Government of the People's Front, which came to power through the last elections.


The civil war will guide us to peace, work and prosperity.




Come in, friends.









































































































































































































- What can a woman do?
















The darker the better, or we'll get caught.


























- Is this where they're looking for a job?


I have good references.








What about the job?




















































You can't tell me he's got a wife and three kids.






Work, that's all.









































It's also a good party for him, Carter's own daughter.








Lily, losing your job is nothing compared to not being able to see you, I can't bear it.



- Think of your wife and kids.












Okay.









What is wrong with you, my dear?























It's even the best way out.

I don't want to quit my job.










It's not a job, I don't care.











So it's my job.




But after all, we understand each other.








- Well, that's good.

























No friends, no money.







- Good morning.
- Good morning.


















Oh, my dear.


Chico stays. - Okay, okay.








It's a good thing you're back in business.
Bye, darling.










































Better get used to it.












And it's obvious to everyone that you're ignoring the job.














The best gift I've ever received.


























We haven't had that kind of scandal in 50 years of banking.










Good morning.







- Good morning, Kurtland.


- Good morning.



I guess some of you think I'd rather stay in the old business than run the bank.






















Everyone blames me, nobody knows the truth.

No family, no friends.










































































It's time to play the job.

Oh, honey, I'm so nervous.



























I didn't expect you to be late for this job.




























- How are you, darling?





Kurtland always finds the most expensive ladies.



...tomorrow, darling.

Have a nice day.
































































I'm leaving in the morning.















I'm sorry, darling, but we have to go to New York right away.

























































I'm not like other women.



























Doctors, quick.
Honey.







Honey...






















- It's from me and Bridges, ma'am, and with our best wishes, believe me.









This evening is sentimental, it was clear long before...


























What happens to me and the baby if something happens to you?














You're so good this evening...







After a decade and two insufferable children? How can you?











Oh, Robert, my dear, I'm gonna miss you so much.





























Mom! - Oh, kids.

Not very courteous of the twentieth century: children can't sleep.

Oh, Joe, you're a terrible kid.

Oh, honey, isn't there something that hurts, all of a sudden?









Oh, George, why don't you take the kids downstairs?





























- Here you go, darling.














- Jane, darling...




Yeah, I guess it's okay for me to spend some time with the kids, distract them while you get back.
- Oh, my dear, that would be great.











Dad, really, Bobs is a very high-ranking soldier?






Really, you're gonna chop that Kruger sword of yours into pieces?

























That's how everyone shines, isn't it?




Who is he, friends? Bravo's acting...











- You're gonna be great, aren't you?



































You are children, you have no idea how battles take place!



























Can you play any other game, not soldiers fighting each other, killing each other?





Oh, Jane, darling...




Jane, darling, sit down.

















Well, no news is good news, and let's see what happens.





















No news is good news, and let's see what happens.
Look at this, Jane, darling.










Well, there's nothing good about it.




Well, Jane, darling...





















You're not a milkman, are you?






















Friends, you have come to my call, I am full of grateful words,

























Honey, your daddy's gonna be home tonight, alive and safe.




When I was a girl, my husband's friend came home from Crimea as if for unexpected joy but no legs at all.






































































































- Kids, don't be annoying.


























































- Okay, Mom.

- Sure, if you're good.
- Are all the polyshifts good?


























- You'd better go to that balcony.
- Okay, madam.








All right, kids, stand perfectly still, pay attention to your father.




















- Good evening.







- It's a good thing you're here.





- Funny, isn't it?

However, it may give me some respect in the eyes of your children.


























































Someone's better off being held in their mittens.




















Come here, darling.

The baby's a natural dancer, if you want my opinion.


On my feet, imagine, from morning to night.
Do you have children, Annie?













Oh, in the best possible way, I suppose.































Here, take this, darling.



- Goodbye, darling.








Well, time changes a lot, but old friends are constant, aren't they?








It's good to see you again, m'lady, really.




Dear Ellen.













Yeah, I'm too bad for a house that's getting better and better.

And you, I see, are good!







































































You'll have to, darling.














Isn't that right, these guys, all the opportunities are filled with romance?



Oh, Mom, isn't it obvious that both of them are completely insane?



- Jane, honey, of course not.














So kind of you to write, really.
















- Oh, hello, darling.


- Very good.













































It's okay.

Really?













I'd like to believe in the best.


Isn't that right?












You were a bad kid.



But we all really loved each other.
Dear Joe.




















- Edith, it's not true.








Oh, yeah, but they had a better chance from the beginning.







Oh, honey.

If we have to skip a lot of military echelons, it'll be tomorrow morning.




Oh, of course, my dear.






- Okay.












Oh, that was awful, wasn't it?





Okay, it's still much better to be here in London.


That's funny, isn't it?












- Only an excess of awful, darling.





















- Damn expensive.







































My dears, we are in a state of war with Germany.









Look, mom, honey, let's go for a walk.












You're still a kid, but you're already grown up for war.



















































I've been chained to you all night until morning.















- One of your oldest friends.




Oh, really, with you.

























Let's go to the roof.










- Oh, that's better.


Oh, honey.


















You don't want me to trip on my first exit, do you?
It's fun having lunch here, isn't it?




You really gonna text me tonight?



























Just in memory of all the good things we've had.













Really, were you okay?



















No, not now, darling.































Goodbye, darling.









- Yeah, it's amazing, isn't it?






































































- Oh, very good.


































I think we better wait till Joe gets back.













She knows all the best people.











































God is prejudiced, too rude to impose on children.
































But, Jane, darling, I love jazz.







Jane, honey, really, you're completely hopeless.


No wonder you're always caught up with a new doctor.
Right now, darling, I don't think it's completely tactful to say that.





Well, I feel perfectly good when I'm not treated for non-existent diseases at all.








Oh, my dear, you're not interrupting.
- You're an old friend.
- Oh, that's very sweet of you, Jane, darling.






Oh, my dear, how can we if you're in Paris on Monday?








- All right.


- Good night, darling.











Ah, that's your strength, my dear.











- Oh, my dear, of course.

- We hung it, darling.






Dear Robert.




To our old friend, to the future...

But first of all, my dear...

































Women are a problem.
Money is a problem, and I don't have a problem with women.










I have a baby, but I don't have a wife.











Dad! It's time to go to work!




















If he behaved better, he'd be the first in his class.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He's too good for a stupid father like you.













Like the woman who left you?

































Aren't you going to work?








He's good when you recognize him.
But I'm better anyway!
Sweet thing.











My friend fell for your spell.





























Very good girl.







She's too good for him.






Please, for our friendship, convince him she's a good girl.

I know a lot about women.
She's too good for someone like you!







Don't be sad. You'd better tell me something.


Do I really look so young?









I got it for the truth.


The truth won't make you a magician or help bring a plant back to life!











"The next morning..."



Be good at school and listen carefully.









It's true, isn't it?


I'm trying to be a good father.








No, it can't be. He was healthy this morning.










I was worried. Gone early from work.




Was he examined by a doctor?






It's a good thing I have a summer hard suit.





















Your friends wish you a speedy recovery and a return to school.

Be a good boy and get well.














The doctor wants to talk to you.































Well, we're old friends.




As soon as I get a job in Hokkaido.



























Children don't need parents.














We have to help each other.














If he behaved better, he'd be the first one in class.








































































































































"Dear doctor, I'm sending you a check for $500." All right, send it.












































































































He met a married woman.




















Every four-year-old will understand that.
Find a 4-year-old child.









































































































Sell your shop, and I'll give you a job easy. Let's say...











Okay. Guess three times.























































- You. Really.

























Kids? I'm not rich, but we could have a little family.

























See you later, darling.








It's the best way to travel.

























Okay. If anything, we're outside the door.







































































































































































That's a good joke, isn't it?



Friends, this case has touched me deeply.



































On behalf of the women of Friedonia... this is the last time I'm trying to prevent a war.
- Really?



























































The enemy has taken hill 2728. 13 moles are out of work.


































































You're protecting this woman's honor more than she is!









Hurry to Fridonia, there are three men and one woman locked in the building.
Send us some help or at least two women.
And three more women.























































You're definitely the best and most neat doorman company that's ever seen the light.






























































Goodbye, my friend.



























Good thing I found your card.


























Yeah, old friends decided to play, like, five cents.




















You played a good game, but with a bad card.
- Well, best of luck next time, Quigley.








Okay, baby.














Oh, no, no, I was really happy to help.







Okay.



Nice try to trick me.



























Okay, let's get to the point.







Okay, here we go.














Would you like to join us, my friends and I are just playing poker?





























I'm Dr. Crane, can I be of some help?













Doctor, are you sure he's gonna be okay?












- Nice work, doc.








Okay.















































































































"What do you know about your friends' pub, and what kind of business do they do?"





































Good choice of places to sit on mattresses.













































































Mexico is the best way for us.


















- Okay, darling.











Okay, let's do this, I'll send my lawyer to see you.





- Okay.



- Yes. All right, hurry up.














Besides, I was promised a job.



































- Okay. To be at the National Studio tomorrow at 7:00 A.M.






I don't know. Okay, 7:00, morning in uniform.






















- Okay, let's try.










































































Please tell my driver to pick me up at 16:00, okay?


































































- Yeah, I have friends there.



I have a good feeling.





Thank you, darling.























- Bye, darling.




































I can see you're not enjoying tonight.










































Chew well. Swallow.


Okay.

































- Easy. I gave the hallway five bucks and said your friend.













What, old friends aren't good enough for you anymore?


So you better start acting like a good boy.




























Your friend? Yeah, you know all the movie stars.







Okay. You know, our baby Danny spent the weekend on a beach in Malibu after the Beverly Hills party.

Could you help old friends get to one of those parties?

If the cops see me with you, it's not gonna be okay.


It's always nice to see a friend's success.



















You'd better learn that now.














- Bye, darling.



Good morning, Lady Agatha.
You look so beautiful this morning.











Okay.































Oh, honey, we can't do this.



Honey.






Very good.
















I was lucky this morning with a group of tourists, and we were able to see Lupe Alvarez taking a sunbae.









- Well, this job has all the signs of the gang you've been talking to in New York.











Okay, don't be so nervous.














































Miss Underwood, was this man in your house that night?
















































Your friend is waiting for you.













Okay.























- His friends bailed.



































All right, get up.






Now, now, my friends. What a pleasant surprise.



I didn't mean to bother you, but my friend I already told you about is leaving town tomorrow. He needs to see how the excavations in Egypt are progressing.
























And he made it because he likes to make shapes of children.















But anyway, it turns out that I had to leave for England after I finished my job, and here I realized that this is the job I'm most attracted to.

If you don't mind, I'm ready, as soon as I get back, to organize an exhibition of your works at the Royal Academy of Arts.










































You're kidding, aren't you, my friend?















































Look at these women!
























































































































But if she's done her life with opium, it can shed the truth on everything that's happened, and we have to try to figure out now what condition she was in.
























































She laughed and said that we were stupid, that no more loving each other should hate each other.
- She said she wanted us to be friends.













- What happened sounds like the truth.





I think it's gonna be okay.





A good kid who's not gonna hurt a fly.






















It's a good thing you paid for it.


















Okay.




Come on. It's 5:00 in the morning.































Come on, go on. Go back to work.









And now, my friend, you're gonna see something that can really be recognized as a masterpiece of art.
Professor Darcy doesn't follow a pattern in his work, he does.

So his work is realistic, it's like they're alive.

















I won't be able to get to you. Why don't we meet next to my job?

















To me, going to the Attic Love movie isn't the best way to have a nice day.

Come on, you woke the kid up right now, and he's got a headache.



































- Hey, Florence, how's it going? - Okay.
















You can only get a good commercial if...
We're opening tonight.





I'll see you tonight.
Okay.







Okay.





Please forgive me for not getting up, my dear.





I hope you don't mind and come and see the work of one of my sculptors who made a real art masterpiece.










- Goodbye, darling.
See you tonight.




















































Okay, my inspiration.















Well, until the best of times?













Good evening.

To rebuild the destroyed figures, it took me years to train a couple of people so they could do the job I can no longer do.
You can see the result here tonight.







And this, my friends, Napoleon Bonaparte, is the emperor of France whose ambition has made the country a world power.


- Hey, Ralph. - Hey, honey.


















- Good evening, Mr. Igor.










- Okay, sir.







Come tomorrow morning when there's no crowd of visitors, and then I'll give you more attention.
Good evening, Mr. Igor.
I'm impressed with your work.




Yeah, she's one of the best.



- Just this morning.

No, my friend.

- I'm just in charge of other people's work.








We'd better go.


- Come on, darling.


Good night, darling.




Just don't suffocate each other.




















In the meantime, I'm gonna get a better look at this place.








- Okay, okay.



Okay.

















- Are you telling us the truth?
















Of course, but not very well.





























































Not now. That's my percentage for the job.



























































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But it's not morning yet.











You better cry to the cops about your troubles.













































My little friend, you honored me by accepting my invitation last night.

Last night, there was a break-up between us, and I said too much...
Oh, you're just kids.
But you're happy kids.






Now I understand why he was so dark this morning.







- Okay, thank you very much.
















You'll help me, my dear.



















You better wait till the old man shows up here.








Okay.













































Don't be afraid, my dear.





























Wait a minute. Honey, you gotta help me.

















Good evening, darling.

I'm exhausted, darling.















Here's your son's report card at Dr. Stegg's academy.



It's a conspiracy against our child.












Philip, don't make the baby cry!





















Poor kid!




Good morning, Professor Topaz.
Good morning. What a lovely fragrance, monsieur.


- Good morning, Dr. Stegg.
- Wait, Dr. Topaz.
I have some good news for you.

- Much better.



Oh, Dr. Stegg.
Not so fast, Dr. Topaz.
















Wait, Dr. Topaz.












Given your good grades, the calendar is your responsibility.






































Does he have any friends?


Oh, so you think he has friends?

And why does he have friends?

No, my dear Monsieur Latur-Latur.
He doesn't have any friends.

The man we described has no friends.






Yeah, if it's a good neighborhood.
No, my dear sir.





















Is work exhausting?

Work isn't exhausting.











My young friend, the velvet glove is hiding his hand out of steel.









- Dr. Topaz.

Bring the records to Dr. Stegg's office.
Doesn't Dr. Stegg know they're in class?









Go on, Dr. Stegg.
You've been working here a long time, Dr. Topaz, and I want to believe it's not your fault.













Go on, Dr. Stegg.
Let me explain, Dr. Stegg, the meaning of those zeros.
The child is totally indifferent to education.









Dr. Topaz, you're guilty of favoritism.


















-...or I'd rather have Scarlatine.

Dr. Bomb, Mr. Baron.
Please, no business tonight.




Dr. Bomb gives his name for our fiction.


Madame, good evening.
Baron, good evening.
Doctor, good evening.
Sit down, Doctor.















You want me to throw away a few million francs because of your cowardice, my dear doctor.

But, on the other hand, our ad will convince people of its usefulness, and they'll convince themselves that they're getting better.





Madame, good evening.
Baron, good evening.
















Let's pray, darling, that vision send us an idiot.








I had the privilege of being your son's teacher... until this morning.






Sit down, Dr. Topaz.
































What about women?
Women?




















My dear Professor!


























Professor Topaz, this is my friend Henri de Ferville, a prominent politician.




You saw them on the best side.


































Good evening, Mr Baron.












- Where, darling?
- Do you know this woman?










My wife, Dr. Topaz and... Mrs. Topaz.







Dr. Topaz is the head of my lab.
You saw his picture in the paper this morning, darling.









- Please, darling.



Goodbye, my dear Professor.

Max, honey.


















Ooh! You're like a child.

































- Okay, sir.
- Good evening, Joseph!
- Good evening, madam!
























It was called "The Good Woman."





Monsieur de Ferville and Dr. Bomb.




Dr. Bomb, sit down.
Would you excuse us for a few minutes, Dr. Topaz?
So you're Dr. Topaz?













Dr. Topaz, this is my business.



Dr. Bomb, state your case.









Your visit, Dr. Bomb, did not surprise me.


Here, my stupid friend, what in the melodramatics is called "compromise."





Are you listening, Dr. Bomb?







He finds a job as a chemist under the name...



Dr. Bomb, I don't give in to the flattery.










- Good morning.














Sorry, honey.





I've never heard anything like it! Honey...



Good morning, sir.




Topaz, you're acting like a child.












People are here, they want to see Dr. Topaz. Who?















Professor Topaz, I have been instructed to award you the Academy Award, which you have earned in the field of science.




Gentlemen, Dr. Topaz is a man of business.





Professor August A. Topaz, professor, scientist and author, for your diligence, for your research, for your work for the benefit of society as head of Latura Lab, I, Henri de Ferville, on behalf of the Republic,







Congratulations, dear Professor.


Are you gentlemen... friends of the Baron?
Not only friends, my dear Topaz, but also business partners.































Do you know a good hairdresser?










Dr. Topaz is busy.



- Dr. Stegg?














And in half an hour, he's gonna be freaking out in front of me. Dr. Stegg!








My dear Coco, in times of crisis, it's not enough.






Okay.




















If I took my job seriously, I wouldn't have anything to do.
















- Dr. Bomb. - Yes.







And your wife, if I may say so, is a very dangerous woman.














Students at the academy, and you, my dear parents.
Today we were honoured by the presence of an old friend...
I'm sure we can all call you a friend.
An old friend I convinced to return to these walls who saw his first successes.



This year's Academy chose its best student, the symbol of intellectual youth, Monsieur Charleman de Latur Latur Latura!

I am honoured to present to you the beloved genius of the Republic, my very good friend...
We welcome you, Dr. Topaz!
Gentlemen, dear ladies, Dr. Stegg, colleagues in the faculty...













But, my dear children, I deeply regret to tell you that, unlike everything you've been taught here, honesty in this outside world is not always rewarded.
True truth, gentlemen. True truth.
I can even say, Dr. Stegg, that sneaky often gets more applause than dignity.



Doctor, please!

Dr. Stegg thinks I forgot myself.





























Where's the reward, Dr. Stegg?










































































































What's the matter with you all night?































Really?


I thought she found a job.









I'll look for a job.





























His father died, and his mother can't find a job.















I'm so sorry, honey, if you want me to order it tomorrow.



And I didn't want him at all, did I, Ma?









Good night, darling.






Okay.

I'm sure it'll be okay.


































Well, okay.



















If you need anything, come by tonight.














You've been looking for a job for two months.



Everywhere is better than this shithole.


























I don't feel so good.














































Look, I don't know your name, but I'm really sorry.











We're gonna get a job there.







And it's the best way to get there.

































- Looking for a job?




















































All right, go.








Well, you could stay until you get a job, wouldn't you?





































Ah, it's good to be young.
Aunt Carrie, like you, my friend, is not a shy ten.


Daddy's good, despite the difficulties.







































































































It's for our friend, the train ran over his leg.




























Just lie down on your stomach and talk to your friend.





























I won't get a job.


















- Really?





































It's the best I could find.














































I've got two kids myself who can live in the same skanks right now.























Do you have a job?
Yeah, I start in the morning, $12 a week.














































































Okay, I'll tell you why.



















They don't have a job and barely enough to eat.














We're kids.

Or Tommy. The three of us have emptied out the whole country looking for a job.

I had a job this morning.







I wanted a job.
All I wanted was a job.








I'll call the manager who gave you the job and ask you to hold the vacancy.





It's gonna change very soon, and it's gonna get better.

I know your father will be back to work soon.















Well, that's really good.


- He sure likes kids.







Come on, man.













































Mr. South is a good guy.

























































Okay, if you don't know, shut up!






Well, my boy, are we gonna write a lecture this morning?
It's better now.

















TO THE NEXT OPERATION














































































































































At 9:00 a.m., the company's got to get to the front line.





































































































































It's crucial that you break through to the shelf tonight.








































































































































































































and sleep all day but there'll be a building tonight at 5:00 P.M.


Our assault battalion is not gonna look good.







Show all the enemies that we stand up for the truth as strong as our ancient spirit of comrade when the battle cry is given, hold on, despite the storm and the storm, hold on, despite the storm and the storm in Flander's filth.






- It's 6:00 in the morning.






Oh, my God, our corporal, was a great man and Fritz, old friend and Beni, and Fritz.




















































- Okay. Get it out.





























































































I recognized you the first time you came to us. Really?





















But it's true. Someday you'll see for yourself.



















Tell me, in town, really, okay?

















































































































It's real. Good.












No, this is my friend, he died three years ago.


My friend.






















































































The cards are good.
- Yeah, good ones. So what? - Give me your hand.








- It's okay. It's gonna work.






















































My friends, how sweet of you.



Sorry, there's something better.










This way, okay, attention, it was the four spades.















No, you're a miracle.

























Really?














Would you like to see Paris tonight?
































I don't care. You were gonna leave town last night.
I didn't think well last night, but I can do it tonight.








She'll be back, master. Maybe any minute now, if not now, he'll be back in the morning.
In the morning?
























That's better.


























































That's better.







































Yeah, yeah, okay.


























































March 8, 1912, you already had a meeting at 10:23 a.m.


He found out I had a baby.










Now, really, she already has it.















































Do you promise to tell the truth, the truth, and nothing but the truth?

























There's another fruit left from the Oun's family tree, and this fruit isn't very good.




- All the better.
Very good, Mr. Hemingway.

He's coming back to New York with you tonight.















Do you have a job?
Do I have to have a job to love you?

Well, I don't have a job.









It doesn't feel right, we love each other, but we're related and everything.





- Forget about them, it's okay when we're sitting like this.

















When I was a child in my mother's arms, I could wake up crying.





















Oh, I can't wait to see the dearest, beloved Ezra.








And I have some good news for you and Mathilde.

Oh, that's good news, Ezra.

It's better not to even walk by them.

























- Okay, stay like this.











- Okay.





It's better than walking to New York.













It's a good thing.































- Come on, you better go to bed.












- You too, miss, have a good evening.




























- Okay, then I'm here.


- It's true and nothing can change it except life insurance.



















We don't know each other and we don't love each other, but it's just a business proposition.




- If you don't need money, then it's just a good show.





































- Dr. Silver's golden elixir.



- Okay.










Do you have Dr. Gold's silver elixir?
Dr. Silver's golden elixir.
Okay.




















- Good evening, Barbara.
- Good evening.
Do you have Dr. Silver's golden elixir?

- Dr. Silver's golden elixir.


















Okay?






You don't have to come back right now, do you, darling?

Look at the moon, darling.










- That's great, isn't it?











I don't know what the weather is like right now, 'cause I'm just looking at you right now, honey.








Ezra, can I send for a doctor?

I hate doctors.











I'll give you $100 for a bottle of Dr. Silver's gold elixir.








$500 for Dr. Silver's bottle...
- Dr. Gold, Gold Dr. Silver...
- Dr. Silver's golden elixir.
Dr. Silver's gold elixir.






























- Oh, looking for Dr. Silver's golden elixir.





















- Okay.




That's good.




















Mr. Todd, you're the best person in the world.


































































My friend, what's your show?
It's a great music show with the best songs you've ever heard.







You have a little bit of a confession, just like a kid, and you want it to be your way.












Try to do it my way, darling.






- Okay.


















So, friends, today we form the core of our, so to speak, nut.






My friends, the Promotion of American Morality.








So, friends, our distinguished president declared war on the wicked.















































- Good night, darling.


You're a terrible woman.

















- Listen, darling.























Ezra, you should probably go back to bed.













Okay, Pete, how about 20 "shoes"?

You'd better give me that $20,000 than lose Ezrin 10 million, wouldn't you?

















- Okay.

















































Oh, I know a good place where we can eat with good health.



















See you tonight.









Look, this kid can dance.




Look, this kid has a talent.





Let him work until we find someone better.

It's okay, kids.























- You've given jobs to so many people.
























- Sure." Horace P. Hemingway's a big sausage dealer who gave her $25,000 for a show is robbing a lot of people's jobs." No, no, no.


















You asked me to come to rehearsal and your choreographer hired me.

Look, listen, honey, maybe your dad's right.







And if you kick me out of this show, I'll find a job in another one.

























The more mysterious, the better publicity.














































We'll find out tonight.
It's gonna be my night.





















No, friend.





- I was working, hoping, dreaming of this evening.

































Okay, everybody on stage.






























I don't feel so good either.

















I don't know what the weather is today, because I only look at you, darling.







Because I only look at you, darling.


















I don't know what the weather is today, because I only look at you, darling.




I don't know what the weather is today because I only look at you, darling.





















Okay, do you love me?



If I invest in this show, I want to make sure we have the best music ever.

Good songs attract people to the theater.

I'm not gonna put in a cent until we find a better dramatist...


That's right. We need good, energetic music.
You need a good actor in the lead.


















Girls, you won't remember their names, will you?





















To tell you the truth, we go to see you, beautiful girls.




How can a show be good without you, beautiful girls?





















I knew it was best to stay home.


Oh, Horace, get away from these shameless women.













I'll offer him the job of a press agent for the company.









Honey!



My dear, I'm not dead yet.








He's waiting for Prince Serky tonight.





















Less than that, darling.


































Kids, kids!






















Good evening, Fidel.
Good evening, Your Excellency, Countess.






What's wrong, darling?






Your whiskey and soda, darling.




Your daughter is in the garden with my son... I mean, our son, darling.
Grazia, darling.




































I'd better be alone if you don't mind.





Bad night for you, darling?
















































































Yes, darling?





















These kids are in a hurry.
















Okay. Good night.



























Perhaps you should sit down.







This evening, I was standing next to one of you without hurting... that lovely girl in the garden.





It's better now.
I'm sure we'll be good friends soon enough.























Yeah, oh, well, of course in that case, I, uh...






I... I have a few rooms prepared for an old friend I'm waiting for... for Prince Sirka.







































































Yeah, he's coming, it's okay.























Thank you, my dear Duke.










Let me say, I didn't think your country's women were so beautiful.















My friends... let me call you my friends.
































Good night, my friends.












Good morning!
Good morning, Your Highness.




Sleep, darling.




Not at all, my dear.



You know, today's gonna be a good day.
I hope, Rhoda, darling, it's for your own good.


He can't be yours, my dear, so you don't have to come up with anything.





Okay.

Put all your best on, darling!













Good morning!
Good morning, my dear.
Good morning, Your Highness.
Good morning!












Oh, here's your shoe, my dear!



Good morning, good morning!







You know, for years, I haven't felt as good as this morning for food and everything.












Very good.






Excuse me, darling!
Good morning, good morning!
Good morning!

Good morning!



No wonder, darling, you were in such a hurry to get dressed.



And how do you feel this lovely morning?
Very good, thank you.






















Don't worry, my friend.
The fact that you sacrificed your privilege of tearing each other apart... is quite safe.
Good morning, good morning.

Good morning.













Shall we go, darling?





Here we go, darling.










You're lucky, my friend, that she's leaving against her will.

































I think everything in this world belongs to you tonight, always in full accord with your choice.




Okay, but because of that...








































I'm good at that. Ha!









































































I was just hoping to make your last night, uh...
Yeah, my last night.






My dear, can you not think about it?











My dear Countess, you can dream of anything you want.









Isn't there a story in your legends... about the water that came to a woman asking for love... to find a soul?























What is it, darling?


There's no danger, darling.






Alda, my dear.



























Okay, Mom.










































Can I be with you all night?




















































































































And tonight I must return to my... to my distant kingdom.













I'm thinking. He'll come back to say goodbye to his friends.


















I thought we were gonna break up with friends with nice memories, but now my shadow is between us.













My dear Duke, thank you for pointing out the problem.



























































Oh, Grazia, darling, I was so scared!































Grazia, darling, won't you stay with me?






















Goodbye, my friends.


And you'll meet me, just a friend of yours.


































She wouldn't be too small for her friends.


We'd love each other...











- Mr. Martel, I was supposed to see you tonight.




- Two minutes, my dear.





























Good news?
























- "Accorded." It's better to say it's bad speculation.










It'd be too good to make it easy.

































































Have a nice day.




- You were hoping I'd leave this night behind because of you in the middle of nowhere?








Pierre, of course we love each other.

- But darling, when you see me wearing four-soo dresses, I'm sure you'll hate me.

- No, you're gonna be the woman I need.




















Really!










- It's good wine.

You'll see local children, life.
















On the Rural Far Piaz, a good ship.
























I'm leaving tonight.






























It's been five weeks since the women were supposed to be here.
















It's true!
I'm repainting my place, but women don't change.






































































- They're gonna have a gwalt tonight.









- Are your pills better?















































And you're my best friend...


I'm a friend on condition that they don't talk about it.










And I'm shitting at work!






























































In my house, a woman...














- Okay, I'll keep quiet.





This woman, you'll see her.




- I see a good time for you.




















- Okay, you'll see this woman, no doubt.










































- I'm fine.










- I'm going out tonight.

































"There are women who are difficult to move."



"All these women are cold."


























It's not my job.
























- My friend.
Friend!
Our friend!





























- That woman's in there.










































































































































- It's true.




























- Okay.







































- Anyway, this baby's gonna be fine here.












- Okay.




























































































- Is that true?



























- That's not a good thing to say about the past.















Dear furs, tailor...















































- Okay.






























































- Okay.
































































































































































Goodbye, friends!






All right, there's a woman and a man who's happy.


- Pierre, this is too good and unexpected.

- I find it very good.

















Jerry, I present to you Pierre Martel, an old friend.
















Come on, dear friend.











- It's great. - Really?





















































And one night, it's annoying you're gonna tell me there's nothing left, and you're gonna disappear.


























- I thought my friends would help you.















































The cards are telling the truth.







- She was good.












Okay.



















- It's all true.



















Better not be a fool.



































You think you're smart, don't you?

Planning, my dear.





- He's one of the best pilots in this country.






















































..you fired the best newspaper you've ever had in your dirty, embarrassing newspaper.





Its cost on printing is equal to a bunch of tests. And it won't cost us more!













Didn't we deal with him like a kid, huh?


I guess now he knows what I think about this job.


























It's a long story, my friend.






What you need is a good nose puff.


















































































Stupid, isn't it?


























Good morning.




- Eight o'clock in the evening.






























Wait... you didn't warn my dad, did you?


































You really know?











































I don't think there's anything better than meeting a mom from a high circle who can stand up for herself.






















I didn't mean anything by that, man.
- No offense, man.










- You're as helpless as a child.























I don't think we can cross the river till morning.






Okay, thanks.








Good evening.

















You know, compared to you, my friend Shapeley is an amateur.



















Behind that face was a genius brain, wasn't it?



These rooms cost two bucks a night. And I'm very sorry to inform you about this, dear wife, but the family budget won't hold any separate numbers.


























I'll give you my best pair of pajamas.





























You better get your stuff off Jericho's wall.













You'll change your mind tomorrow morning.

















































All the best houses have these things outside.



































I met some very interesting women at the shower.













What made you so very friendly this morning?











That's gonna make a good story for the article.






























We've been driving all night.
























It's Dad's job.











































That night, at the dance, when that Swede came to you...
















You know, you were good. I just dived into the role.





















































































And one night, he smiled at my favorite.











































But Ma said she had work to do in New York, and if we don't go, she could lose her.





























Five thousand, or I'll do the job myself.
































I'm married, I have a couple of kids.















Got a couple of kids, huh?













He was a good guy, just like you, but one day he made a big mistake.

You know what happened to his kid?








God, I don't want anything to happen to my kids.
























When we get to the next town, you better get in touch with your dad.













What kind of mystical force is Westley attracted to women?

















My aunt, my brother's mom, four kids... and I saw them riding on their backs.
I bet your family doesn't have any good riders.


Show me a good catalyst, and I'll show you a real man.









We're not gonna sleep here, are we?




















I'm taking a married woman back to her husband.







































Really?












































































































































































Ellie and I got married because we love each other.






























We're gonna have to figure something out before morning.















Tomorrow morning, you'll be in the arms of your husband.










I don't have a rule to go out with married women.














































Do you really want to run away?




Let's do this. When I get back in the morning, I'll buy it back.
























Every time I bumped into a good story, I used it on you, didn't I?
































We've known each other for a long time. And you know I'm serious.





















We wouldn't have known until morning if I hadn't gone up for magnesia.








Ma, there's a woman here.

























All women are beautiful!
I think he's still the best journalist on this case.


































































- The trip took a long time, didn't it?












































































You're not in love with anyone else, are you?
Really?


































































He did a great job.






















- Whatever you say, darling.





I'm going to Washington tonight.





















































































































Dear beloved, we are gathered here today... before the eyes of God and these men... to unite this man and this woman with the bond of holy marriage.

King, do you take this woman to be your lawful wife?

















































- Two weeks' work is behind us!





It's a good thing I'm leaving.







Sorry to keep you out of work, but it's very important.











See, we have a lot to say to each other.


















- It's my wedding, isn't it?




- Well, if you think everything's gonna be okay...








































Then you better get home before it gets ruined.
Okay.







- Goodbye, darling.


























































Better do it now before I forget it.











You women are obedient to the punishment.
























































Okay, I'll give it to you.




































You know, we know each other.



















Don't say that, darling.






















Women and children forward, boys.




- I invited him this morning.



































Like you, darling.

Leo. Compliment of the evening.







- Much better, yours?































- Really? My wife's father died and left her a small sawmill and something else.























Very good.






















































- That woman! - She can tell me everything.


















- Chris! - Okay. Okay.
- I can't be around this woman.
- I said good.























- The murder of a woman.






















- Okay, girls.
























































Kids, I want to talk to Chris.




























Maybe it was the work of a sadist or paranoid.











- Okay, then I'll do it.













Just a bunch of old friends.






It's good old days.




- Is he good?






























- Was he a good detective?











They're all his friends.




Can you guys think of anything other than work?
Good job for you, Nick.











I'm telling the truth.

















































































- No, Nick, it's true.




















































Nick, you're gonna help me find Clyde, right?




























- Really?



















































I'll tell you some detective stories in the morning.




Honey, my guess is that Vinant killed Julia, and Dorothy knows about it.


My dear...














All right, come on in.


- Someone wants to see you, darling.




You're worse than a child.

Isn't that right, Asta?









All right, shoot.
















Stadsy Burke said you were a good guy, so I'm here.





























- Okay.





















- Here, darling, towels.





We thought we'd be better off around here in case the old man showed up.






- Your friend?


































We'll come to you tomorrow when you're better.












But, honey, it's the best gift I've ever had for Christmas.






You have to admit, I have great taste, don't you?





It's only in my papers that they write the truth.




























- Good morning.


- Okay.









I got a letter from Winant this morning.













It's not good if he's out at a time like this.






Okay.




























Come on, Dr. Watson, let's go for a walk.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.

Not a very good trick on your part to leave the house while you have to rest before I question you.



































































It's true!















It's better if you tell me everything first.




























































Okay.




































Okay, I'll tell them who did it.












Honey, you were so cute.












You'd love it if our kids were killers.
That would be fun, wouldn't it?
Maybe they'll kill each other, and it'll be passed on to the descendants.









Spying on someone isn't that fun, is it?




You know, you're wrong to think all your kids are gonna be killers.

According to their findings, and they're pretty convincing, only one of your four kids is gonna be a murderer.
So you only have three kids.




I'm not gonna get married, and I'm not gonna have kids.

















We're going to see the sights, aren't we Asta?

































- I really believe you're worried.








It's okay, Asta.



































Okay.
I used to be a crook.















































Nick's a great job.























It's perfect for a women's page.



























Honey, stop drinking.




























































































It's a good place to get in trouble.




















































































































Come on in, folks, at the table.












Now, my friends, I'm offering you a little toast.





























Last night.




He wanted to know how I was and how kids were.













You see, I actually saw Winant last night.





























Yeah, that's the best thing I've ever heard of.































Okay.


































- Is that true?







Nanheim, your friend.









Everyone, even our smart friend Gild, thought Vinant was alive and he was a murderer.


Telegrams and calls were good, but nobody actually saw Vinant alive.






It's not a story, it's the truth!




You got a good price for saying you saw Winant.







Is that true?

You don't have to hide the truth, Mimi.






Then why hide the truth?















































Damn it, honey, I thought they'd never leave.























Your son really grew up.






Kihachi was so good when he was young.








Think of Goemon Isikigawa.




















































Look, a woman in the second row is pretty good herself.























You're gonna be a good chess player.























My son belongs to a better world than yours.










I'm not interested in kids.




Do you really think I can do this?












Better get us lucky, like in fairy tales.


















Especially with this woman.





It would be awful if she told Shinkichi the truth.
































Okay.






Steady work.
Which could be better.
I'm sick of artistic work.
This is our last night.


































Really, Mom?



He wanted you to get a decent education and a decent job.












































Children and the military for half the price. Come in, ladies and gentlemen!



















Ah, the lovely little one is the best gift ever!























I remember one night in Amsterdam... no... no, it was Turin.

You're never gonna leave me, Daddy Mele, are you? Until I die, I promise!









It's too expensive - 50 francs. - 35?






Thank you, darling...








The show's about to start. Children and the military are the entrance... for half the price.
















































No, you better, I'll tell you later.















- Oh, it's so good to be home.


Yes! Remember my friend in Paris?


He found me a job in Paris.
With a good salary...








I'll come in for a drink with my friends.











- Sit down, if you've had enough patience while I walk my friend...
























Dad found a job there. And you?












Beautiful, isn't it?












- Dog. Nice, isn't it? Yeah...

I have a rehearsal tonight.



















It takes a young girl with no complaints, who can iron, to work at the Widow Walle Laundromat on a rue de la Butte, 46.

What a job!















































































I'll explain it to you, my dear!






Can't you love a woman who's leading to a disaster?


















I'm a woman!
And the woman is as trembling as a cello. - Hey, hey, hey...





We'll love each other under the moon, under the steak of birds.









- Yes. Beautiful work...


















- Okay. Bravo!

















- All right, all right, go to bed! Have a good night, Dad.












But... I don't know, my dear...



Crime, my dear?





























How much work...












































And what these women think...

















Okay... well, don't worry...

































Now turn left... okay. Now this way...

A woman...
Who is this woman?
































The caviar will be in the morning and in the evening...















Talk! Say it again! - Dear Tromp...


If you need soap, count on me! The train leaves in 23 minutes. - Okay...


















With this woman...
- What woman?


Jean couldn't! It's true, Claire.






What are you doing tonight?









Tonight...






























































I don't work in the evenings.



If it's in the morning, it's 2,000 francs a month. Not bad in modern times.
































































- Are you happy? Did it go well?

























































Dear friend, you alone can save me.









































Even then, London was a huge city. His wooden houses were crawling together.




























The next morning, a little chimney-cleaner and his master are on their way to work.



































Hitler and Dr. Robert Lay, Reichslater and Head of the German Labour Front (DAF)




Dr. Joseph Goebbels, Reichs Minister of People &apos; s Enlightenment and Propaganda and Gauleiter Berlin















Our benevolence will be an oath to stay with you... in good and bad times... whatever it takes!
Reichs Minister Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels















It's our unflinching belief in ourselves... it's our hope for young people... who will continue to work for her during the tumultuous years... of 1918 in Munich... which is already part of Germany's national history.
Dr. Otto Dietrich, Reichslater and German Press Coordinator at the Ministry of Education and Promotion



As I said, work on the Reich Autobans started in 51 districts.
Despite the fact that this work is in its initial stage... there are now 52,000 people working there... and another 100,000... are involved in related industries.






Dr. Robert Lay, Reichslater and Head of the German Labour Front (DAF)

All of our work must be motivated by a single thought... that the German worker... should be proud to be an equal national companion.
Dr. Hans Frank, Reichs Minister of Justice and later Governor-General of occupied Poland





Dr. Joseph Goebbels, Reichs Minister of People's Enlightenment and Propaganda, Gauleiter Berlin... and later as Chief Mobilization Commissioner for the Total War.



You can take power with power... but it's much better to win with the heart of the nation.




















































But instead, he'll bring us together, and besides... never again in Germany... physical labor will be less than... any other job.

The time will come when no German... will be allowed to work in a community of people... unless he first becomes a member of your group.










Reichs Minister Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels



























































So tonight we take an oath... every hour, every day... to think only of the German people and the Reich... and of our German nation!









































Dr. Robert Lay, Reichslater and Head of the German Labour Front













Reichs Minister Dr. Goebbels



























And since these are the best racial qualities of the German nation... they can, in proud self-respect... have the right to lead the Reich and the people.


Anyone who feels like he's the bearer of the best blood... and consciously uses it to gain power... will never back down from this course!








But only the best National Socialists are Party Comrades!











































































































































- Our friend again.















You have to be careful when you choose your friends.

- I don't know where I'm going. A beautiful mystery woman and bandits.





























But you're laughing for nothing, it's true.













- my friend.


- I'll rest until morning.




If everything's gonna be okay, I'm gonna visit someone there.




What you're laughing at right now is true.







Good morning.









A woman was killed on the ground floor.



It's true.

They killed a woman and now they're waiting for me.

What a joke at five o'clock in the morning.

I'll tell you the truth.




The woman on the first floor is married.
























- But really, it's been a long time.



























A woman was murdered in the West End.

- "A woman was murdered in the West End." Well, that's boring.









One of these... "A well-dressed woman with a knife in her back.


"At 7:00 a.m., the cleaning lady, Elizabeth Briggs..."

















- I can tell you better.


Really? Have you heard of a lady from Bulgaria?





































I'm a mechanic, looking for a job.





























He'll stay till morning.






Now I'm looking for a job.





- Nope. What are the streets with the luxury stores? There's always lights and trams on Argyle Street Saturday night...








- Why? He says it's best not to know about such depraved places.


Is it true that women are painting their toenails there?

- London women are beautiful?



















You'd better go.










































That's better.



















- Hello. Did you see any strangers this morning?








































- The killer? The one who stabbed a woman in Portland last week.













Anyway, I'm in court every morning.




What about our dear Annabella?



























I have to think about my wife and kids.

I really don't know.















































You're under arrest for the murder of an unknown woman... in London this Tuesday.

- All my words are true.


He's my best friend.



















































I call upon your candidate and all those who are dear to their loved ones to make it possible for us to live in a better world, where there is no inter-ethnic strife and no strife between neighbours, where no one is persecuted, where all things are honored... and people help each other.










I'm telling the truth. Haven't you seen my sincerity?


























































































There are 20 million women in this country, and I've been chained to you.
Look, finally, I'm telling the truth.





Let's say I'm the most common thug four days ago who killed a simple defenseless woman.
You're also a woman, you're defenseless, you're one of those marshes, and you're threatened by a criminal you can't handle.


I kill a woman a week.






























- Okay, sir.


































Really? - Of course we won't.





























Okay.









I'm not happy with the prospect of waking up in the morning to see... your monster face in front of me.
























"Children, I once had to communicate... with this gentleman..."






























- Goodbye, darling. - Goodbye.









Okay, ma'am. Right.







He'll take our friend to the London Palace on the way.

















You wouldn't betray a young couple, would you?
Good morning.




I realized you were telling the truth.

































































































- It's okay.




















Will you give me a job here?





I wonder why you can't get a job.




I'm really hungry!












Get a job tomorrow.



















What if it's better?




















It's a great sake, isn't it?

















Kids come together fast.


Is there any decent work for me?



The kids are so beautiful.














Dad's really gonna get mad.
























Okay!
















Don't you have a job for me?

If I find you a job.






Haven't you got a job yet?











And that woman, too!





You know this woman?
She's looking for a job.







It's good to have a mom, too.




Eat the three of you, children!
I asked a friend about the job.
We'll get you a job soon.




Sounds stupid, but I'd like to be a kid again.





Tell me, for a twenty-seven-year-old woman.


Proud of your woman?
It's good to move on.
He's a good man, isn't he?










It's good to move on.

You gave the wrong woman a present.






My children are still waiting for you.












I couldn't think of anything but my baby.





























Take care of my children.






The child of a woman.
Why do you have to think about this kid?
You can't even keep track of your own children.


I used to think I'd even kill myself and the kids.
And she's just a weak woman.

If you had kids, you'd understand.






So you're gonna take care of my kids?




All those ten days that I went to work that you found me were the happiest in my life.
I'm gonna leave before my kids get back.



Good evening!
- Good evening!
- Good evening, Mr. Hardwick.


He's been waiting for you all night.
All night?





























We don't talk to each other.














- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening.


Really?





















He's been wearing my good shoes ever since.




















































Truth be told, I shouldn't be alone.
















- Who was that young woman?
- What woman?


































Really?

- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Okay, but not for long.










We're leaving tonight.

























In dealing with girls and horses, it's better to let events go their own way.













































The bedinis are developing the outfits you wear among your friends, elegant people.










Well, honey, I'm sorry.
























I'll never let women wear my clothes again!
- Good evening, Miss Tremont.
- Good evening.























Okay.





I'm her best defense!




















And Madge is one of all the women in the world!






For women, kiss, for men, sword!
What have you got for the kids?





Women meet wives every day.




Okay.










- Really?









































It's like good times, isn't it?





- Much better, thank you, Bates.























































Do you mind if we keep working?





Women sometimes do weird things, don't they, George?


- Okay.


I still have some good news.














It's too bad she's not here, is it?
The most important night of my life, and she's not.








We're going to Italy in the morning.


















































































Despite the fact that all men are males, nothing compares to a sense of security with a good, faithful husband. I know.








- Really?


- Okay.













- Really? What do you mean, you're not happy?


My dear, this is one of the healthiest places in Europe.





Madge, darling!











Really?

You wanted to tell me about Dale Tremont, didn't you?






In the park? Honey, it happened at the zoo.






















Madge, do you mind if I scare your husband so much that he'll never look at another woman again?































My darling!









- who were we for each other?

What we were for each other...





















You've gotten a little better, haven't you?
Remember that night on the left bank... you were wearing the blue dress I bought you?




Settle down, darling.





Promise me that now that we've found each other again, we're gonna be just like that in Paris.











Okay, well, find out all about her past, and I'm gonna go plan her future.

- Okay, I promise.





You know, sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I look at him and I feel scared too.














Good evening.

You deprived me of the pleasure of introducing you to each other.



Madge, you're the most understanding woman.


You're very sweet, darling.


Madge is a very brave woman.















Shouldn't you say that all we have to think about is that we matter to each other that we need to live our lives?
I wouldn't say that like that, but isn't that true?





























Don't worry, darling.


Honey!
I just said "darling," and she cracked me.













All right, sir.





Please send a good juicy steak.


















All the women say these dresses are beautiful.















I'm rich, I'm good, and then this Hardwick guy's gonna leave you alone.


Mr. Hardwick, one of the guests just announced that he's getting married tonight.



- Really, my angel?





Come on, sir, cheer up.




Remember, the truth never hurt anyone.






You better take off your glasses!














- Madge, darling...







It's a good place for a bride and groom, isn't it?
Honey, congratulations on your speed in this case, but who did you find to get married so quickly?

You better hang up, darling.





- Okay.
- Okay? What do we do now?














































For women, kiss, for men, sword.














Okay.






















Well, if you're calming down, maybe it's for the best if you don't kill him.

























Boys, if Dale and Jerry are sailing at sea, maybe it's better to help them.























- Yes, sir, the three of them. But they're not coming back tonight, sir.





















- Okay, sir.
- Okay?







































I met Mr. Bedini and Miss Tremont tonight.



















Dear Master, now I can actually help you.
















Also, he's downstairs asking you to have dinner with him tonight at his castle.



Oh, yeah, okay, very good!
















I have news for you, good news, wonderful news.













































































It's not good to be so annoying.




















My friend, but I'm not a rabbit.




On that evening, N 128 of Professor Karin's missile went to the moon... with a new one on the 'cact test cat.





Well, where do you put so much, darling?





































































































































Just training, darling.




Well, as a woman, there might be some mystery for men after three days in a place like this, I don't know.

You have something better and more charming.




Honey, pack up.


Honey, are you going to?
Yes, darling. I'm just cleaning up the booze.



- Honey, don't you want to pack this?





















































Don't worry, darling.
You'll find him, won't you, Fingers?










- Come on, darling.
- But, honey, we can't just leave...







Here you go, darling.
Honey, your acquaintances are the sweetest people in the world.










































Oh, you don't know them, darling.












Nora, you're my favorite woman!



























































We've got a lot of work to do.












































Nora, I just wanted to make sure you came tonight.










- No, really, I'm fine.
- Take it or I'll call Dr. Cammer.











Okay.























- How do we know if he's really...






- Okay.





- Good evening, everyone.
- Good evening, Aunt Katherine.
































Good evening, Henry.











How are you, darling?








Darling, meet Uncle Willie.



Honey, this is Aunt Hetty.






































Really?














I don't know where else I'd spend such an inspiring evening.





- I'm not kidding, honey, he's gone.


























- He's with another woman, I know.




He's with another woman, and you know it.













Don't worry, darling.
It's gonna be okay.



- Well, if he doesn't show up by tomorrow morning, I'll go to the police and see what I can do.






Selma, how are you, darling?















Well, good night then, darling.


































Okay, Henry.



No, you'd better go.

Dr. Kammer gave me sleeping pills.
Okay, I'm gonna go.


Honey, you're gonna try to find Robert, right?
















Poor girl, she's been through enough with Aunt Katherine and Robert, and now this Dr. Cammer.
- Who's Dr. Cammer?











Well, not everyone should be as lucky as you, darling.










































































- Well, that's better.







- It's okay. It's okay for friends.




- I'm your friend, yeah.


































It was good.



















Is that your friend?



















Okay.










- This morning.


You've got a nice table here, you know.


















- Okay, Dancer, if you insist.























- Really?


































- She's okay, isn't she?




- Okay, I'll pay you.








How do I know you're really gonna leave?









You know, it's still better than watching him sit here drunk.


- Okay.










Do you really think she's taking him home?


I mean, have I ever told you that you're the most charming woman on this side of the Rocky Mountain?



Go clean your buttons and I'll go my way, you fat bastard," I say.














- Or don't? - Okay.











Really?











- Well, calm down, darling.



Okay, honey.






Kiss me goodbye, darling?























Nora, honey, honey.



I know it's the New Year's road traffic, isn't it?









- You look too beautiful in the morning.

Drink, fight, look scary in the morning.











You know, I don't like to make remarks, Dancer, but, you know, it doesn't work out very well when you and your partner and your primadonna and your best client are all getting out of here at the same time.














You know that's not gonna happen, right, Dancer?











- You better go.


































Dr. Kammer.
- Dr. Adolf Kammer?




Nothing, Doctor.





































- No, of course not, darling.

Aunt Katherine, Doctor, everything.



- No, honey.




- Of course, darling.
But you better lie down and rest.

- You need to take them, darling.
















Hurry! - Okay, I'll tell you.















































I thought I'd get out of there if I didn't want to get in trouble.




































































They're just waiting for you to fall into each other's throats.












I really don't know which hotel he's at.












































Bring Mrs. Landis in, don't give a damn about the doctor.













Okay.






















































- All right, let her out.






Don't worry, darling.

- Did you and Landis have a good relationship?





















- I should probably get out.
























It's okay, David.

































No, honey, it was a dream.


Do you want eggs, darling?

- No, darling, I don't want to.


- Good night, darling.


Of course I don't cook as well as you do.

Sleep, darling.






I'll have pictures of me in the morning.











No, it's better that way.























I don't think I'd kill you if you ran away with another woman.










































Good doggy.





















Good morning, Peters.

- Good morning, Peters.
- Good evening, madam.
Tonight?





- Good day?










If you didn't wake me up, you could sleep till morning.








- Good morning.
- Good evening.
Oh, yeah, good evening.
































- $75, that's better.















Hey, good doggy.











Okay.













They dropped it off through the window last night.












Don't worry, darling.





































































The phone company told us that about half past eight last night, before he was killed, someone called from here and asked for Nick Charles' number.





















Okay.




















































- Yes, darling, that's very nice.




















Honey, don't worry.




























- Okay.
















We missed Dancer a little tonight.

















You must be Dr. Cammer.























































































































You hired Dr. Cammer to find her insane.










This way, darling.
Honey, you have the most charming family and friends.






- What a woman.
Okay, darling.






















































He knew if Dancer heard about it, I'd lose my job.













































You followed Landis that night and tried to rob him.























This morning.


And when he decided to leave last night, did you pay him the bonds?




































Okay, it's all true, every word.















Dr. Kammer was right.














- Nice job, Abrahams, great job.












Nice work, Lam.


Best detective ever!


I'm your friend, yeah!












Good night, darling.




















No family, no friends, no reporters, no police, no one.
Okay.







And I don't need anything in the world but you, darling. And a toothbrush.








































When I left home, I had the best dowry in town.




- Our child will have to live in poverty.






























- Is that true?







- Good idea!


- Okay.






























































- Good morning, Omota.

- Omota, I have good news for you.




He visited me this morning.






























He came in this morning and asked us to stay.
















- Really?


- Very good.





















- Is that true?









Do you have any good?





- But they're silk and very expensive.

I don't think you can afford it. The best choice for you is Viscose kimono.
So you'd better pick up somewhere else.


- No, it's true.






























It's the best I've got for today.





- Look, I went to Mr. Furusawa's house yesterday to participate in the auction and was told your friend wasn't home.



























































































- Good idea.




Driver, please return to Simoquia Street. - Okay.






































- She says you're a big man and how lucky you're gonna be to the woman you're gonna be patronizing.
- Is that true?


- That would be good, but Mr. Furusawa is your sister's patron.













- Bring us something to eat, the best.








We're friends.

























- That's good with sake.





















Of course, my sister can't tell you the truth.
















































- Good morning.






- Okay, I'll take it.













- Really?
























You can't buy a woman's love for a gift like that.
When I was young, women bought me presents.











- Really?



















- Okay.






Is that true?























- It's a sad truth.




I wish it were true.










































- It's too good to be true.



- Really?







You can find as many women as she wants. - Yes.





























- Really?
























































- What good is there?















Very good.










If I was always telling the truth, I wouldn't be in business.


- He thinks I'm his woman because of one lousy kimono.












































- Okay.




It's true.





















I've been so busy, so full of work.












- It's true, I'm an idiot.




- Are you telling the truth?













- Good evening.















































The doctor just called.
















- Is she gonna be okay?



















Be a good girl.
















- It's weird, isn't it?


















If we do our job well, they call us immoral.











Okay.



















Okay.


Okay, okay!












This morning, I've already heard the spicy.








































Jackson wired this morning.






You said nothing would stop you... but you better put on your pants.






























































I'll take you on the best trip I can... as soon as we're done here.








Gladdy, don't get upset, darling.











Get rid of this woman!








Gladdy, darling.


Tomorrow at this time, you'll be a married woman.


































Nothing serious, but I thought I'd better call you...










































But we need something on her... and I'm gonna turn to the best man we've ever had. Who's that?




And you fired him. The best man in defamation suits.










All right, get Haggerty on the line.

















Okay, but hurry up.
























Of course he's a good friend of mine.



























Good morning.













Have you found a good man for dirty business?




Have a nice day.










Goodbye. - Good morning, Captain.
- Good morning, sir.


Very good, sir.











Okay, we'll talk.



- Elementary, my dear Watson.



























Have you read any good books recently?







































































But, honey, it's only for a month, maybe even less.



You can play dice every night.









Isn't that right, Bill? - Yeah, if they know you as well as I do.
























You're a good friend.


- Okay.











An old friend of the family.

Honey.
A very old friend.























































"Get on Queen Anne's ferry tonight, you must meet the board of directors in London.


















It's a good thing I haven't unpacked them yet.























Okay.
































Yeah, Daddy, it's okay.































The best rainbow trout is in the lake...


The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.

The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.
The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.



We're very grateful for what you did this morning.
















- Okay.
Now, young man, my daughter and I wanted to thank you for everything you've done this morning.


Truth be told, I don't like newspapermen.





Really?




Connie, my dear, I...












I apologize for being rude this morning.





























Good evening.


Connie, my dear!

My darlings!


















































It's true.



My dear, I was just talking about my trip to Sierra Nevada.

















Beautiful, aren't they?




Connie, darling!






















- Aren't you sick, darling?






- Good night, darling.






Okay.































That's a great idea for our book. And we have to work on it all night.

Okay, then I'll wait in my quarters at 7:00.







- Okay.







Good evening.


















It's infinitely better than most people you can meet on a ship.




- At least she's from a good family.


























To tell you the truth, you should be put under the glass.



















No, I'd better stay away.








Nice work.








- I'll bring you an instructor in the morning.
- In the morning?





















Bill, I'll send you an instructor first thing tomorrow morning.


It's gonna be okay, honey.

- Good night, darling.











Good morning.
































Really?
Okay, let's talk.




- Good morning.






Good morning, Mr. Evans.















































A breath of air at dawn is the best cure in the world.
















- Father, darling, you're a punk.














He's good.



































































- Just a spoiled kid.





























Almost as good as dancing.





My close friends call me "The White Bear" Chandler.


















You know, you're a funny kid.
You look like a child here, not the girl I met on the ship.










- Yeah, really?





























It's just my way of saying that I hope we'll be friends.

- Friends?























- Okay.













































- She left this morning. - That's right.



Now I know where those night-time work stories came from.






































If he starts this tomorrow morning, we'll be in jail by tonight.




Yeah, but we don't have enough evidence to convince a mentally retarded child.

- You really think so?










A woman in Jersey gave birth to a four. It's like this all the time.


For such a good, sensitive girl.




- Okay.













Besides, it's our last night.














































But I drive with you every morning.

But I'm on the guitar under the window every night.






































All they need now is another good scandal.



You take it too seriously, darling.























She was afraid he was hurt by something she told him this morning.












Okay.

















Okay, try it.


It's Connie Allenbury, the life-burner, the spoiled brainless kid!









If you start the trial, 500 people will be out of work.
Unemployed men and women will be on the street. Women like you will suffer, starve and rot.

- You're writing editorials, aren't you?

























The important thing is to take care of these unfortunate men and women.




- Hello, darling.

Honey, this is Mr. Haggerty from the Star of New York.






Of course, it's just day work.
I know your work.


It's not gonna be like your current job.


No more talking about work.
















That's all Mr Haggerty cares about, isn't it?







- Really?



































Okay.





































Okay, I'll meet you.




















































Trust me, it's better and better.
Allenbury's having a party tomorrow night.














Maybe it's better this way.





After all, I want you to be good friends.



































"It looks like a charity bazaar set up by Allenbury tonight,









I just came by to give you some good news.




- Okay.



































My dear, she's insane.

















What is it, darling?
























I'm afraid it's true, Connie.













- Okay, sir.





You really don't want me to...



Go, darling.






It's even better for me.

It's much better here.




What is it, darling?
We had so much fun together, so much fun.
But, Connie, darling, what happened?


























Now, tonight.
Tonight?











There's a woman here who calls herself Mrs. William Chandler.





Good evening, I'm Mr. Allenbury.










I think it's best if you wait here.




- Okay.


- Okay.

























- Maybe he did marry her.

















































- They're really married.



















Honey, don't forget the letter.




















Call me in the morning.



























You're all so smart, aren't you?














He fell in love with another woman.




You're not used to hearing the truth.


































Women cannot deceive each other when it comes to a man.

- Really?






You made a good mess. And all because of trying to steal Gladys!





















Warren, darling!


It's my fault, darling.
















- Who is this woman?











































Doctor, your house isn't like ours. How I envy you!


The doctor cares very much about his wife.
Even when I'm acting like a good wife, my husband doesn't pay any attention to me.
When did you act like a good wife? If it comes to that, I think it's over.

"Dear."
"Yes, dear."









My dad hired you to work.





- Good morning.
















She's cute. Really?
























































































I hope he can find a good job.


It's better not to have a father at all.












Good morning.


I'm from her job. Can I have her?






Doesn't your sister come to work? Yes.


Really?



Someone from her job.
I thought someone from my job.


I have a chance to get a job. I'm in a difficult situation right now.






"Please report to work."








What a good day it is.






I'd better get them to my dad's job soon. - I'll tell you right away.


















Isn't that right, Hisamazu?









The reason I'm in good shape is in constant burning.













Doctor! You're having a good time here.


You really like the hair of a married woman.








- Wait, honey...
- What? Honey!















My husband brought this woman with him.





















































- How's your husband feeling? - Why do you ask a doctor?









Doctor's appointment, please.

I have the doctor. Who called him in?







































What I want now is to marry a good man.
That would be best.




















He hasn't paid for his studies yet, and after the university, he'll be looking for a job. - But he needs money to do it.




- He says he'll come up with something. But he just went to work.





That's good.





























































- Really?




That's not true.


Are you telling the truth?
Yeah, it's true.







































Be a good boy.

































She's a poor woman. Don't write that down.





We'll find out anyway. That's our job.







The best thing about your situation is to repent and tell me everything. Excuse me.

















- It doesn't matter who. Is that true?




She made it all up. She's such a bad woman.




I could lose my job.

























You got a job.
















- I can't face my friends.















- Tell me the doctor.





The music was composed by my friend Adolf Borshar.





















My mother had two children from her first marriage.











These deadly mushrooms have collected our deaf and dumb. That night, there were 11 bodies in our house.









Dr. Lavinjac, caused immediately after lunch, did everything he could, but, alas, it's useless.










At seven o'clock, when it was over, I got out of my hideout and found myself face-to-face with an exhausted doctor wiping sweat out of my forehead.
























I didn't make a good impression on him either.


























Every night they played cards for hours.




















Yes, my friend, these are my memories. I write memoirs. Do you know what I want to tell you?



What good does that do you?

























As for me, I was in my uniform and I loved my job.

"Come out, dear monsieur."
"Come in, dear lady."












With good references, a month later, I became a doorman at La Rue's restaurant in Madeleine Square.





Every night we went back to Montmartre... where we both lived.

One night, he stopped and grabbed me by the coat's lacquers and said in a convincing tone:


On October 3, around 11 p.m., two suffocated men came to "La Rue" to see Serge.








That night, I didn't wait for Serge to wash the dishes and leave alone without saying goodbye.
But at 4:00 a.m., someone knocked on my door.



By 7:00 A.M., it was all decided the roles were distributed.


I wasn't in any danger. And I'd get 5,000 francs the same night.
We weren't supposed to meet until 5:00 p.m. at a restaurant on the Elysée Fields.























































It was a living and grateful woman.






- It's me. - Okay, madam.

























What love he had for his work!

































There was a kind of music cafe with a bad reputation where we were going to have fun in the evenings.














But one night in February



















A family of five who thought they were the best in the world.






















































I've decided to have a good breakfast in the best inn in town.













But there was a mystery in her eyes this morning.







"Oh, clean up well, my dear!"











This evening, we came to Biarrica, where we took "two rooms adjacent and communicating" as she wanted.



"Okay, thank you. Put it there and leave us."





















"Okay, madam. Okay, madam."






Oh, that's expensive!"
"Ma'am, that's a good price." "For 300,000, I'll take it."














When we ran a tank near Byonna on the pretext of buying a newspaper like a brave man or a coward, I ran away from this adorable creature. I ran away as if I had escaped from my destiny, painfully. For I must confess, she was the only woman in my life that I almost really didn't love.

"Hello, my friends, hello."







With a model who cheated on me with my friends and then confessed to me in tears, even though I didn't forbid her. But tell me about it!


























"Okay, madam."

Frankly, that woman's eyes bothered me a lot. It was meant for a croupier, but not for a man.


That night, losing nine consecutively annoyingly to failure, she doubled, and then tripled her bet.





The joy of this woman was indescribably childish.












She didn't leave, it happened the next night, and she won 30,000 francs.



So there was something inexplicable between this woman and me that happened when our desires were united.












That night I followed her when she left me I followed her, and away from her curious ears I met her.












"A third cylinder. Okay."





















Throwing out zero is good, but five times in a row, it's very serious!















This is the best exercise ever.















"Pas." "Okay."



















Okay!






































"Very good."



They were free that night and agreed to have dinner with me.






One evening, a memorial evening for me, I walked into a casino around 11 o'clock with nine of all the masts in my sleeves.













He's got nine, too. That's so good!

I repeated "no" so quickly that everyone looked at me and Charbonier leaned over to get a better look at me.




























We played 50-50 every night.



It's not even better... even worse!






In a few nights, the game took me long.





























- Okay!
- How good?














Then ironically, I got a job at Grimo's card maker.









I checked, it's full of art and other expensive things.







What's your job?



























Well, Jeeves, it's all good on paper, but I...























Sir, I'll tell you the truth, your novels drove me, like you, to a nervous exhaustion.




But, Jeeves, you have nothing to complain about, I bought you a new coat, didn't I?
- Yes, sir. And then there was that woman in Algeria...








I'm afraid I'll have to leave you early in the morning.




- Very good, sir.













































That's good.





She's pretty, isn't she? Do you even know the name of this young lady, sir?



- All right, take her stuff. - What am I supposed to do with them?












It's late tonight, sir.


















Yeah? - This woman is calling Mr. McDermott.
- All right, connect, and I'll listen.


I'm all right, how are you, darling?











- Good morning, Jeeves.
- Good morning, sir.
















Yeah, it's true.





















- Oh, good.



- Is today gonna be a good day, Jeeves?









And as adults, take it out on the moon! - That's it, that's good!




Okay! Okay!







- You really think so?



















We're supposed to be performing in Leeds tonight, but I'm late for the bus, and I'm forgotten.



- Sit back, okay?














- And not well, sir.













We'd better roll!
My dear, you can't defend yourself with this, but you can cut yourself seriously, you better get rid of it!
















































No, sir. I think he's talking about that young lady who, for unknown reasons, came to your house last night.










Okay, thanks. You search him first.


















How come? I called Mr. McDermott at this hotel last night.









- No, but I called him here last night.







What are you, what are you, no, no! Your friend is, of course, somewhere around here, close.










And this morning, Wooster and his servant got out of the house, got in the car and left!






I'm afraid he's gonna have to wait for her there for a very long time, because I met this girl here in this hotel this morning.


She thinks I want to help her find her friend, Mr. McDermot.


































- Very good, sir. Take Mr. Wooster to his room.


Okay.





















I regret to inform you that this woman is here, sir.
- A woman? A woman? What woman?
- The one who visited you last night.



I'm not gonna let some normal woman stop me from resting!











I called him late at night.






















I didn't like it. It turns out, my religious friend, that "Moses and his ass" is my favorite melody! I know every note!

































Yeah, I came to you the same way you came to me last night. Can I come in?









I think you'd better go. I'm sick of all this nonsense.





















Okay. No, I can't leave until I do what I came for!





Okay, I'll tell you everything.

























I don't understand why you don't want to change your miserable life for the better!





The government will have them tomorrow morning.
As soon as I saw you, I knew you were a very smart woman!
Smart people recognize each other easily.




But will you have dinner with me tonight?


You're much prettier than... other women.




Goodbye, my... darling.












But I would know that, wouldn't I?

















I understand your concern, gentlemen, and I assure you, everything will be settled tomorrow morning!

I don't let those who trust me down, but you can trust your friend Wooster.








I'm telling you, it's gonna be okay. I'm guessing tomorrow you're gonna be writing reports on this case, and you can point out that Bertie Wooster... sorted it out.




























You treat her very carefully, she's my most precious treasure!




Yeah, well, I'll just help the lady sit down. Please, have a seat.







Okay, I'm gonna sit in that chair across the street.














As you can see, your plan failed. Marjorie, I think you'd better come clean.


Well, that's very good.

I don't like being treated like that!









Are you feeling better?





























Boxers don't fight women, champ!





Very good, sir.

































My friend! Where is he?





































Yes. If you promise never to let a woman you don't know in the house.











- Good morning, Patrick.


















Guilty, and the first morning.



































Thank you for a lovely evening.
My friends!




















I invited someone tonight, so don't be late.





Buttleship lost in the third round last night.








- Yes, darling.
I think it was just yesterday, wasn't it?




Honey!


























Good morning, Mr. Stanhop.


Good morning, Mr. Stanhop.

Good morning, Mr....






Good morning, V.S. Damn, it's good to see you.


- Good morning, Miss Spence.
- Good morning.
Good morning.

- Oh, good morning, Mr. Stanhop.
- Good morning, Mary.
That's good.


Maybe I haven't seen him in a while, but he's gotta look better than that.














- Do you really like it?






They didn't finish until this morning.









From the traditional meeting, from morning to evening.


- Good idea, huh?




















- Okay, thank you, V.S.
- Okay.







- Okay.




















Well, we're not gonna find anything better than Bucknell, V.S.
The portrait itself is good, but it's not good enough for our story.





























We've been advertising Pandor's cream for nine years, and we've always made good profits from it.







Okay, I'll think about it.













The national weekly is now a tasty piece, and with our editing and promotional campaign, we're gonna make it the best five-cent weekly in the country.



































Mimi, darling!










Just for a little while, darling. I don't have a minute to spare.


Look, okay?



















Oh, honey.





Come on, Mimi, darling, before we get kicked out.



I bet he knows our moves better than we do.
I've never given you advice before, haven't I, darling?

Okay, then I'll recommend something now.





You know, honey, I've seen a lot more than you, and I know the Stanhops better.


Mimi, darling, Van's been surrounded all his life by beautiful women, not only Miss Wilson, but also models, attractive actresses whose photos he prints...





My and Van's defense, as you call it, is to love and trust each other completely.
It's very simple and expensive, Mimi, darling.



I'm trying to make his life easy and pleasant, unlike his work.




I understand your point of view, darling, it's all very modern and noble.


She's as important to him at work as I am at home.




Van doesn't even look at other women.











- Patience, woman, patience.








- Come on, say it a little louder, darling. Stop insinuating.
















You're not busy tonight, are you?
No, it's okay, V.S.

Okay.


If you think it's a good job, I don't think so.












































Relax, darling.
















- Oh, good evening, Mrs. Stanhop.





















- That's better.









I don't understand women who think work is a bad habit to learn from while spending every penny they earn.






- Good night, darling.








- Oh, Gwendolyn, if I didn't love my wife so much, I'd make an honest woman out of you.

I'm the best, aren't I?
Best.


I've worked for a lot of people, but he's definitely the best.



And he's got the best wife.








































































I'm not quitting my job.








Your job is harder than mine.

We're gonna want a house, kids.



They all had an uninteresting job, and they're happy to be home.
But you have a good job, and you're getting more attached to it, and you're going to parties like tonight, dating people like Stanhops.


Now you don't want a husband, a house, kids, and then it'll be too late.







Honey, we're gonna take care of this.
We'll do what's best for us.
















You really think he's gonna buy that bullshit?




































By the way, if you're counting on a lot of circulation, I have a better idea.







But it's too expensive.



- You have to admit, that's a good idea.











- How did you get dressed this morning?


- Okay.
- She's too good for you.




























- But we're better.

















You know, once you take three spades tonight, I'm definitely gonna break your beautiful neck.















What is it, darling?






















- Good evening, Mrs. Stanop.
- Good evening, Finney.


























- Good evening, Mrs. Stanhop.
- Good evening, Miss Wilson.










- Okay.










Who rides, husband or friend?
















Yeah, isn't it beautiful?













Stanhop has gone too far, hasn't he?
Honey, are you kidding me?











- Okay.









How's your cold, darling?

















You know, there's a young woman here today who didn't know I was Mrs. Stanhop. And she's convinced Whitey's one of those secretaries.
























No, darling.













- Okay.












Okay.

Honey.

No, no, honey.


Really.

She's gonna take another job tomorrow.










- Oh, honey.





Oh, you caught a cold, V.S. And on such a beautiful morning, it must be driving me crazy.




- Okay.








Well, I don't know anything about the Chinese, but I know you have a lot of work to do with numbers.


And for the final report, it's better to hire a private accountant from the outside,







































Yeah, you better stay there for a few weeks.
That's what's best.









V.S. I think it's best if you go on your own.






If you're worried about Hanson's intervention, it wouldn't hurt to keep an eye on him a little bit, would it?














Oh, honey.




"Are you good enough for her?"





"Well, since there's no one better than me, hold her tight."




No, darling.




But, honey, this isn't the trip we've been dreaming of.




But, darling, I won't have time for you, honestly.



Oh, honey. I'm gonna miss you so much.







You are offered the work of Mr. Stanhope's personal auditor.








I and six others were hired to do a special job.





















Okay, connect.














- Okay, you guys.






- Okay.








If I give you all the available typewriters and a dozen typists ready to die for our cause, can you build a beautiful contract for Mr. Underwood by tomorrow night?




































- Okay.
You'd better get some rest.


Do you think we can finish by tonight?






You'd better go to my room.
Okay.
- Good night and good morning.





- Tomorrow morning.
- I'd like to talk to you tonight.








































Thank you for a lovely evening.










That's a good idea.
You better get out of here.
































Good morning, sir.




Good morning, Ellen.





Okay, tell Mrs. Stanhop I'm back and I want to see her.

- Good morning.
































Even if it's true?








Oh, Linda, darling.























My dear, all men are like this.
Such honest, talented and wise in one, and unreasonable children in the other.
You're not gonna blame the baby for stolen sweets left unattended in the room, are you?
So you don't doubt it's true?

































We love each other, Linda.






We need each other.




















We've been kicked out of better places.
And where the whiskey was better.















We'll finish up here tonight.


























You'd better go.





When the disappointment passes, he will rush towards the nearest woman.
















I thought I'd better send the letters today.










No woman can have enough things.







They don't trust each other.


Just trust each other.








- Well, there are good ones.

Really?



































Look at the steam pipe.





Let's get started, my friend.



















































We're going to Tokyo tonight.
Really?













I'll be better... he likes me.















Your ship arrived early. Unfortunately, we won't be here until tomorrow morning. Your foster father and Mitsuko.

My foster father is coming tomorrow morning.








































Well, okay.
Why don't Japanese women realize they look better in the kimono?







I'd like to introduce my university friend, Dr. Storm.


Mitsuko, this is Teruo's friend, Mrs Storm.


I hope we'll be good friends!

But when I was accepted into your family, I was just a kid.









But I can't love her as a woman as a wife.










Isn't that right, Mitsuko?


It's beautiful, isn't it?











You see, a task like this requires not only real strong men, but real women, not spoiled dolls from rich houses.


Don't you think your parents were wise enough to pick you that kind of woman?

































Not very well.












And it's a good thing you inhaled some of that Western spirit. This spirit is essential if our old Japan is to survive in the struggle for a living space.














Yeah, it's okay, Father.
Good thing you're here!






It's a good thing you came home.


It's a good land, but it's old.




You're just... you're real friends with him.






















Well, are you okay?










My dear son! The dissolution of the marriage contract is contrary to the ancient traditions of our people. This could mean you're gonna have to leave our family.




Okay.


















Dear Teruo!





But I hope you both keep a good memory of your German friend Gerda.



Okay, I will.
It's better if we don't meet him.












































She knows everything a woman deserves.
It doesn't matter what he says. She's gonna be a good wife to him, and everything's gonna be okay.













Dear Teruo! When you come, you're not gonna catch me. And later, you'll realize I'm right.
























We're gonna love each other.



I wish you happiness from the bottom of my heart. Your German friend Gerda Storm.
She was a good friend to you.
And you... will be a good wife to me.




See how tired your old father is. It's a hard job to plow the field, sow and remove the rice.

































I've had someone for breakfast since tonight.

And then, if we get away from women, we'll play golf. What do you say?


















Good dog! Mommy's gone, huh?






























Hey, Patsy, honey.




Do you know Armand Duval, darling?





























- You're right, my dear.

How to live in a marriage if you suspect each other?































I appreciate your generosity, but you'd better leave.















Do you really want to leave?


- Maybe it's the best solution.









Of course he's better with humor than I am!








Nope. You knew the letter could wait till morning, but Armand Duval...







- Really?

You think the best defense is assault?


I told the truth, but there's nothing more implausible.








I told you the truth, Jerry.




































Lucy, honey, marriage is marriage!




















- No, really.

























































And then, where do single women go?








































































Well, did you find any friends here?































"Give me a house where cow herds... "Good morning, Ma.

You came back in the morning.


Stay away from women.





























I hope he's the best man I've ever met.







It's supposed to help my job.
So while I'm at work, I have to speak with a south accent.

Didn't hear the best joke of the year: "Isn't that the woman I saw you with?"

You know, this is the best place in town.
Really?



































Yeah, my old guys were like dogs when I got a job.




















New York is good for the other side, I wouldn't want to live here.




































All right, sir.






















































You've been celebrated from the best side.





You know, there was a woman there, so if I wasn't a lady, I'd slap her.








- Let's get back to business, okay?



















A trusting woman and an unworthy man.










How can you know the feelings of someone who took her best years?







































...I'm definitely getting better.
















Take a better look at him, it'll do you good.
















It's just that we've never kissed before, and this isn't the best place.






"As long as you're just a friend to me, I'll be your husband soon."































































- And it would be better if Mr. Leeson wasn't found.

















































You knew it was me, didn't you?





















































- Okay.







Yeah, that's much better.
















- Good evening, Mrs. Leeson.
- Good evening.
Lucy, you didn't come by this morning, as usual.






















Well, the man's best friend is his mother.
Thanks to you, I've learned a lot about women.









































- Of course not. I told the truth.




















I remember, I'm a woman.






It was a good time.



















Hello, darling.
You've had plenty of time, imagining who this woman is?









Why don't you bring her in tonight?







Okay, honey, I'm gonna make sure you guys get to know each other.

- And my best...














- Good evening.
- Good evening.





When I left, she called the doctor.









































- Yes, darling?























They don't drink anything all night, and then all of a sudden, they're on the floor, and they're ready.






- Okay.
















Oh, I'm sorry, darling!



- My father sent the best garden architect to Princeton.



- That's right. He's good to me.

...but when he went uphill-- well, you knew what I was talking about-- he did that-- that I quit my job. He sent me to London, then to Paris.































Have a good day!



















Beautiful, isn't it?


































It's fun, isn't it?





































Will you deliver my car in the morning?




















- Okay.


- Is that true?










































































- Sorry, sir. - Nothing, darling. Nothing good!
Good morning, sir.
















































































































































I mean, I would if I had a job.
















I can afford the best.









We're not friends anymore, okay?
























He's my friend. He sent me to reform school.














- What's going on here? - Those horrible kids, I see them upstairs.















Good morning.





And I go to the most expensive restaurants, and I miss it so much.





















Carter and Block. I've been looking for a job for a long time.


Maybe I'll get a job...







Yeah, okay.
- You're gonna know about work today?








He's a good guy. He's a quick learner.












































































































































- No, he can't. Why? He's a good guy.









Guys, why don't we take him with us? He's a good guy.





















I wish you were dead.


























Yes. And very good.






It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay.























Not now, but when I was a kid.
I know this house so well, like I built it myself.










































Call Dr. Merriam, have him come here. What did this guy look like?

























































And every night, a new girl.



















- I'm not good enough for you? - No, come on.



























- Honey, give me 20 more bucks?











































Really. He's very kind. The famous Martin once lived here.




I've always taught him only good things.
I wanted him to grow up to be a decent man. What future awaits these children?


Enemy... what good do they see in life?






Yeah, you always said you'd take down all those slums someday and build good houses where happy people would live.











You're just a kid!




















I'll get a job, maybe go somewhere deep down.


We'll wait till tonight so no one sees you.









That's not very good.



When are you planning? - Tonight.
- Tonight?
Okay. Give me a couple hours.

























































I.V........................................... Occupation... Dr. Flynn.













I'll do the autopsy in the morning.




























































And a chubby pink woman who lives in a beautiful cottage in Sunnyside in Long Island."




























































































It's a good thing we figured that out now.





























































































He gave up because he thought it would be better.








I'll get him out of here. He's a good guy, and he's smart.










He'll be better off where he's going.












There are other children. They have to be protected, too.











We're gonna get Tommy out. We'll find him the best lawyer in the morning.










You were just a kid.

Drina! - Drina! - We're coming, darling!





Okay, Doctor.




















I'm calling Dr. Brownley.
I'm calling Dr. Brownley.
I'm calling Dr. Brownley.


Oh, Doctor!

I'm calling Dr. Wilson.
I'm calling Dr. Riley.
I'm calling Dr. Wilson.
I'm calling Dr. Riley.



Look, Doctor, while we're here.




I'm calling Dr. Cravader.
I'm calling Dr. Cravader.
I'm calling Dr. Cravader.
Dr. Kildair.
What's up, Doctor?








Okay.

I'm calling Dr. Wilson.
I'm calling Dr. Riley.
I'm calling Dr. Wilson.
I'm calling Dr. Riley.
I'm calling Dr. Wilson.
I'm calling Dr. Riley.








Thank you, Doctor.
I'm calling Dr. Post.
I'm calling Dr. Forbes.





Dr. Kildair will be with you in a minute.





Doctor?








I have a lot of work to do.








You'd better not work tomorrow. I'm gonna fix the bandage.




Thank you, Doctor.






I feel good now.











I'll make a new woman out of you.

It's better this way.
Dr. Kildair.


Yes, Doctor.



Thank you, Doctor.

I'm calling Dr. Arthur.
Dr. West.
Dr. Miller, Dr. Hicks, Dr. Lasher, Dr. Scott.

How are you, Doctor?

Hello, Doctor.



I have a message from the Surgery Committee of this hospital regarding an operation performed by Dr. Vix.

Dr. Wicks took the liberty of using a fully experimental method in surgery.


However, Dr. Vicks abandoned the method, took a portion of the abdominal muscles and sewed them into the liver, leading to more bleeding.

Dr. Wicks, it's my sacred duty to inform you that the Surgeon Committee sees your work as inappropriate to a surgeon.

Can I say something, Dr. Ferson?
Dr. Kildair.
I'm as guilty of this as Dr. Wicks.


Dr. Wicks was the first performer.


Maybe, Dr. Kildair, but this is a hospital, not an experimental lab.

I have no alternative but to fire Dr. Vicks.

Dr. Kildair.
Yes, Doctor?



Yes, Doctor.














And if you succeed in making something new... and the best, you can count on my protection.

Remember that, Dr. Kildair.
Thank you, Dr. Ferson.

27.50 a week, Doctor.










I'm calling Dr. Lewis.
I'm calling Dr. Lewis.




Goodbye, friend.






You know, I think if this guy was a truck driver, or a shoe driver, or something like that, he'd find another job right away.























You were Jim Haley's friend, weren't you?








































I don't know if Jim told you we had a baby.





I don't know where my baby is.







I want my baby back, don't you understand?
I didn't know Haley had a baby.










































Better get him to the hospital.













Okay, that's your choice.












You better get out of here now.














But, Doctor, you took off my strings.






Okay.


It's the best, doc, 14 years old.



































You heard what the doctor said.

You're a good assistant.









Well, is it better now?


They couldn't choose the best doctor to weaken.












I mean, something good that I like.

Okay, remember, I'll see you at the clinic tomorrow.

















I was at your place this morning.
Good morning, Mrs Mooney.


No, thank you, darling.










You've burned yourself, Mrs. Goldberg is going to have a baby, old man Flaherty without a job for over a month.






If you think it's not a hard job to find Innes...




Come on, I have to go to work.








I thought a lot last night. I talked to a guy. He told me about an orphanage.

It's a place where children are sheltered.












Come on, you'll meet me after work, and I'll take you there.








Are you the mother of a child?


I believe this man told you that we don't have a child named Hayley.







With the baby?



He was afraid I'd go to the police and take the baby away so I wouldn't say anything.


He died without telling me where the baby was.


And you've been looking for a baby all this time?





But it won't stop me from picking up the baby?










But I recognize my child.

I hope she's here, my dear.




One of them could be my baby.





But, my dear, I must warn you again.



I'm sorry, my dear.
























Then, Grot, my good man, let it be a lesson for you.





























You see, I got a job and I make $28 a week.















Yeah, but I don't take money from friends.
A friend can take my shirt, but in business, I don't trust anyone.
And I don't like friends at a time.


Look, this kid means a lot to me.







Now, people like me, my friends.










I wouldn't think about it if I were you, maybe I'm the last chance to find your baby.


Because if anyone finds out, you'll never see your baby.
































Oh, good evening, Doctor.





Well, Dr. Kilder.
Okay, the patient has to come back.
























Okay.
You have a loan here, Doctor.
























Now, tell the doctor everything.



The patient refuses to trust the doctor.





















Okay, come on.












Thanks anyway, but two people here, we're gonna get in the way.














I think it's a small job fee that we did to that comrade's hand.











Two bucks a visit is very good.










Okay.





































Okay.








I'm filling in for Doc Wilson tonight.




























Good evening.



I did a little investigation this morning.
And I came to tell you, I found your baby.








Before you lost the baby, you bought her something, didn't you?


It's hers, isn't it?















I have a good place in mind. Maybe you'd agree.



Yours isn't very good.





























My money isn't good enough for you, is it?








- That's good.























Well, yeah, okay, but...

Well, then let's be friends, and for a friend, I'll go to hell, remember that.






What did he do with the doctor?

































I couldn't tell you everything last night, and now I can't.




Read this after work.





Dr. Kildair, this is the next patient.
Dr. Kildair?


Are you going to see Dr. Wilson?



















I went to see her last night as soon as you left.





















Hey, wait, Doctor!




















Okay.




































Well, she's my friend.





























Okay.






























- Come on, darling.

























If he dies, I'll never find my baby!














Dr. Jones is on the second floor.




















































If he dies, I'll never see my baby again!









A decent woman would kill herself first.















I wish I could see you find this child.

























The doctor saved your life.

I understand you're not saying where the baby is.















Do you really know where the baby is?












I got a little cold, but it's okay.







Let Pa tell you.
How's Anita and the baby doing?
Oh, they're good.
Except Rhoda's not a kid anymore.





























- Oh, no, honey.
























Yeah, I'm fine.

- Really, Ma?































































And Cora says that if Bill doesn't get a job soon, she's gonna have to work herself.





























That's better.






It's good to live with your kids.




















By the way, I haven't seen your friends lately.





But you have to bring your friends home.



- Hello, Dad! - Honey.

Okay.
Honey.





















































George is just thinking about you, darling.




Okay.

- You think he's okay?
- Of course it's good.

























































By the way, good hand from worms.




















- Thank you, darling.



A friend is a rat, and a nice guy is under arrest.







- That's a good show, isn't it?


















- It was good.


A young man took over a friend's actions, and he wasn't strong enough.

A good young man, I mean.




















Oh, I'm good.
My friends are here, playing cards.


How are the kids?
Really?

















And don't worry, okay?



Well, it's... it's expensive.
You could buy yourself a nice warm scarf for that money.
Okay, Bark.

Goodbye, my dear.
























And you say, live well with your children?


She's a good girl.





In general, I have good kids, I'm proud of them.








You know, sometimes I think kids shouldn't grow older when you have to put them to bed every night.

When they grow up and you can't give them as much as other kids get, they're ashamed of you.

























And the kids are gonna get pissed off.





But what, everybody has to do what they think is best.









Dear Bark, I've been thinking about you all day and I want to talk to you more than ever.






Harvey and Nellie know a woman from a nursing home.













Oh, Bark, honey, something came up for us to be together.

Perhaps you should wait until your glasses are fixed.





So much work, and you just want to look at me?








You see, before she showed up, when you left in the evenings, I had time off.
But, um, it's... I just mean... if it goes on like this, I'm gonna have to find another job.























Good night, darling.



Yeah, honey, soda's in the medical box.





- Good night, darling.

































You know he won't find a job.



































Oh, honey.









One night, when we went to the movies, she was dating a guy.







- She's my baby, not yours.





Why do you think Rhoda stopped inviting her friends home?



It's her friends, and you've talked to them!



You raised five children yourself.






You'd go looking for a job.
It would be nice if your mother were here.












- Good morning, Doctor.
- Good morning, Mr. Payne. Who's sick?
This way, Doctor.





















Excuse me, Doctor.



























- Don't listen to him, Doctor.





Okay.



























What's wrong with him, Doctor?






Wouldn't it be better to send him to California?
I think it would be a good idea to send him anywhere.
I thought you'd say that, Doctor.
I always think my dad can't handle these terrible winters, and California would be better.















- He's good, isn't he?
































Oh, honey.







It's gonna be okay.





Oh, yeah, she said something about an argument, but forget it, darling.

And Rhoda will definitely refuse to bring her friends while she's here.



Take care of it today. That wouldn't have happened if Rhoda could have fun with his friends at home like she used to.
I used to know all of Rhoda's friends, and what's going on, but now...

Rhoda used to have a house full of friends.







He'll find a job and his apartment.





- What, honey?







- Good evening, Mother K. - Hello, Ma.









Not for long, for his own health, darling.


I don't want anything more than you kids to see healthy and happy.



















I'll meet friends my age and... - But mother, I don't...
- Let me finish, darling.





And one more thing, darling.


Never thought a nursing home was a good place.












You've always been my favorite child.





























I think I've made a mistake somewhere, even though I've always tried to be a good wife and mother.


























We're having lunch with the kids.


















I hope the kids haven't lost us.






I had kids.
Yeah, and I went down to the barbershop guys every night, left you at home for sewing...



























- But the kids...











- Oh, good.








We thought you were really so proud of your car and kind of wanted to brag about it.






Oh, well, I'm better now.








Yes, darling.













- Really?

































The hotel friends are my friends.




Funny how women always confuse the days of the week and stuff?




































The kids are waiting, and Nellie was cooking dinner.





















- Did it go well?



- Yeah, we thought it'd be good.








- Are you okay, Lucy?

Wouldn't you look at her and think she's the mother of five kids?






- How many kids do you have?

Really? I bet they brought you a lot of nice moments.
- I bet you don't have kids.









I guess I seemed better for her, so she chose me.

- Really? I got his girlfriend, and he got my house.

























" Darling, " he asked with a gentle voice, "say, do you regret your choice?



" My dear, " she said, "a choice has been made, vows have been made, rice has been abandoned.





Good evening, everyone.






















That's not very good, George.



I don't know what happened to the kids.






I'm gonna get a job there, and I'm gonna send for you right away.

You'll find a job.



Goodbye, dear Lucy.















































































Well, is there anything suspicious, Doctor?









And Dr. Watson!


She's cute, isn't she?

- I just thought, if you check... or later, at the border, having tickets is always good.







Both are round orphans with love of truth and solitude, full of early ripeness, touchingly modest and careful.

















































Otherwise, it's only in the morning, by breakfast.


Doctor, nicer, okay?
























Hot food and beautiful women, Mackey.






Did one doubt you were Dr. Watson?









































































You better tell them the truth right now.
- Yes. It's always the best.























































You will treat the Dams with the utmost attention... and personally help them with their landing tomorrow morning. It's done.







In the morning after we arrive, we'll take care of the girls, as usual?












Have you ever read Sherlock Holmes dealing with women?













Oh, please pay the driver, okay?






























You don't know women.






































The real social man with the money... is the one who orders most of the best hotels with meatballs, double.









Doctor?









Doctor?

Doctor?



Okay.



- In that case, it's good!









That's how we live with you, my friend.






- Doctor!
















That's how we live with you, my friend.





















































































That's very unfortunate, isn't it?



- All right.




Mr. Doctor, notebook for transcripts and lupus.






































It would be best if we were to be quiet and modest, kind and friendly to people.




It's a hoax. It's the biggest naughty thing I've ever seen in my practice. How do we feel about work?
























- Doctor, you're coming with me right now.




























This morning at 10:30 this young man entered the World Exposition... from the rest park by pulling out the fence. He didn't have an entry ticket.

































- Goodbye, Dr. Watson.












- Clean work.






He's my friend. Professor Berry.






Doctor, have you recorded everything?





Doctor!







- To the case, Doctor.




































- Okay!







Write it down, Doctor!
Two of my acquaintances were supposed to come with the north express this morning.























And you're not Dr. Watson!
-...not Dr. Wat...









In the future, treat this with caution, Doctor!









Secret ward? Doctor!





























Tonight at 11:00.





See you tonight!














Thank you very much, Doctor.


- You know, Mr. Doctor,


- Not necessarily the most expensive.





You can go upstairs now, Doctor!







































Sleep well, my ladies!






We're gonna be giving a party.
Musical evenings. Homecoming balls.




- I don't know, Doctor.






























All right.

Come on, my friend!































- The professor was a collector, wasn't he?

- He wasn't into... expensive art? The rarithettes?




























Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. Which the stamps hidden here find. They're taking it out of their noses!



And then you ran away to get the doctor?




Burned down. - Doctor?






















- Doctor?















Bravo, my dear.














Really.














Dear Professor Berry, thank you very much for the timely delivery.
We don't know anything about stopping your further work.

































Okay.




- It's better than the originals from the state's typography.























But Mary Berry and Jane Berry would be better off staying in Middletown.




























He's been missing for a month!












The world's most famous detective with his friend, Dr. Watson.
















































But I'd rather not say anything about it.



"Kiss me, my train robber!" I really feel sorry for you, dear Jane.



































My friend was hoping... to spend a nice watch with you. But, alas, his expectations were deceived.



















Didn't you know your uncle? Nope.






So, kids, come with me. I'll show you everything.







At the age of 20, he won a competition for the best sketches of new 50-franco banknotes.

The State paid a young artist 1,000 francs for his work.



Even better than the originals.

















I wish I'd told you something nice. Then you could believe me.








Tomorrow morning they wouldn't be serving oatmeal soup, but a real breakfast. Nine o'clock.














































Kids, I can't explain anything to you right now. I'm sure if the police catch us, it's all over.








- Then that's good, Mr. Police Counselor!

















Everybody's gone! - Okay.

If they don't make it safely, you're not my friend anymore.




- We couldn't have wanted a better identity.









'Cause I'm going as a good friend. Hmm?

















Good idea.
- Not as good as I thought.























































































- The most expensive watch in the world, Mackey.


































































Drop your jokes! - It's a saintly truth.

You don't want to convince us that you were cheating and cheating to appear here as a fighter for truth and justice. I do.















Isn't that right, Mr. Defendant?











































For God's sake, really.


We thought, trust in trust, we got to work right away. Immediately and thoroughly.

















And who, Mr. criminal investigation counselor, has failed the work of a large gang of counterfeiters?















































On one rainy evening... my friend Mackey sat and I, both very depressed, upstairs, on the 7th floor of Shaftsberry Avenue, 311, in our little detective bureau Argus, with four pounds.



























































We wanted to do what's best.

























Good morning.



Good morning!








For the first time in three days, good weather, and you're a suicide.







Sorry, it's such a good day.



































































I've been singing this Golden Fish all morning.























It's better this way.




















Really.

























You're a good man, you bought us five bottles for the party.























Good morning.







































Yeah, okay.
You gonna go now, darling?

Good morning.


































Okay, thank you...









Really?
Sorry, I have a lot of work to do.


















Really?



































































All right, I'm gonna go tell them the truth!

































Talked to him on the way, really, a little bit.






I'll bring you some good news tomorrow, don't worry.





















You can come over tonight.














And my best wishes.





















































































































No, I gave everything this morning for a shipment of alcohol.








Good evening.








That's good.
































These tools aren't worth more than old wooden shoes.



























Truth be told, she needs a new stem.










Okay... stay with her for a few days.































































I'm busy tonight.




Mr. Mori, I'll be at your house at 8:00 a.m.
Okay?
Eight o'clock in the morning.




Give him my best wishes, sir.
Tomorrow morning at eight o'clock.


































































Here, with your best wishes.
















It's true that the girl was here last night.

We promised each other we'd get married once.





























Shinza, did you really bring a girl here?








Good morning.







Good morning, Master.

















































































Good morning!
It's a good day, isn't it?

























































You're a good man.







































Really?














































Okay, I'll give it back.





















It's gonna be okay.






















The railway works above all else!
























But, honey...





After all, why would he do this job?




Why not? Better than knocking on wheels.
- But darling...

Either Willy gets a decent job, or he lives with us.


Just take your time, darling.

That's better.












- The further, the better.














Who else did he work for, darling?














- Yes, darling.









We already offered him two jobs!









There's a job I can handle, but they won't let me try!













"Dear sir.


























I'm not gonna let a chicken or a baby in the dark.


















The next morning, his body was found on the way.













































































































































































- Good morning.











My wife gave birth to fives. Like that woman in Canada?











































































































































































































I'm waiting for a call from Belfast.



























All right, I'll connect you to Mr. Brock.























































Come on, take off your jackets and get to work!



























- Good morning!








- There's more wood in the tender. Okay.




























There can't be two Gladstones. Okay, you're gonna be the car.



















Good morning, gentlemen.
















































































































- That's right! - Do you know Connemara?





















Good evening, gentlemen.





































Balliganion is the best place in the world, and you're gonna have to put it on your nose!

Balliganion! I'd rather be in Connemara, the same hole!
















































- Win or lose. The train should be ready by 6:00 in the morning.








6:00 in the morning!

Okay.


















Good morning, gentlemen!

Good morning.

Good morning. Tickets.
Good morning, sir.

Ah, good morning, sir.










- Don't put it on the shelf, okay?




























Your schedule of work is subject to the rule.. act................................


























































Look, we better not argue with him.










































Did they leave this morning or not?















Was anyone here last night?











I don't know what he's doing, but he's the one who left this morning with the band on the train.













Yeah, and this morning, he took my train. And I need an explanation.















Yeah? It's funny, isn't it?






















































And if you don't get off the station by tonight...
By tonight? I have a lot of things.




I've been pulled out of the stations better than this one!
























































































After they tricked me, stole the train, lost my job?














- All right, I...

































While... good evening.................................... .. while..











































He can't take our weight. Better...













































































All right.




































































































- Really?















































































Look here, dear colleague.



They communicate with each other through secret crossings... and form a maze.














And women on all sides of the world and all sizes :


It's Arab women's property.







Pepe only has friends there, and we have only enemies.

The son of the devil always has a lot of friends.



And how friendly he is with his friends is the heart itself.
He smiles at his friends as easily as he kills his enemies, dear señor.









So, tonight we go to Kasbah and take Pepe alive or dead.











Dear Pepe, you can be proud of him.













It's not a job, it's sabotage.





Working with people, I respect and appreciate a good job.


I always know my place. Right, Jim?
Really, Max?
Isn't that right, Piero?
































- Why? You're like a child.
























- Tell them to stop. - Okay.















But wherever he is, he's always a woman.








Fast work is bad work.
Slow gets better results.


Excuse me, madam, the inspector and I are talking about work.

























































I lost my friends. - They must be home by now.



















































He's a bad man, but a good son.
And we're not gonna arrest a good son, we're gonna arrest a bad man.



Give me a piece of paper and you can count Piero as your prey by tonight.

I'm not laughing, I'm watching you sell friends with guts.























Ines in the morning, Ines in the afternoon, Inez in the evening. You're not a woman..... but a diet.









Good thing there's a police.











And you're just a woman, put your head down and shut up?
Women are always beaten.
I used to have a friend-- he sang lyrical songs. That's how he kicked me as soon as he got here.








Women will kill you, Pepe.
































20 if there's a good lawyer.

















































Look at your friend.













Honey, get out of here.


















It's just a kid.












- Friends.









My dear Carlos, you lose for the fifth time.























- Very good.

Okay.



















You're a real friend, Director.





It's because I don't often have to deal with delicacies in my job, but it's as God wills.



























Tell me, Monsieur Slyman, where was I last night?









- Yes, in the morning.

- Truth be told, yes.

You can love women and look at pearls at the same time.



It's simple. All you need is a good guide.
You can't have women in Kasbah without security.


- Tonight?


We'll go with Graver. Isn't that right, Graver?

So, tonight.








































































- I'm just his friend.






























































My friends would like to meet him.


Why am I explaining this to you, you know as well as you know how Pepe is a woman's freak.













Our friend's been gone a long time.
























Really?


































- What's wrong with your friend?


























If I knew better, I'd slap you.


















- Is that true?
- Really.



- We don't know each other well. Pepe.
































I'm a friend, Pepe, and I'm very sorry for you.










- Gabi, she came in last night.



Women like that don't like trouble.
































Okay. It's Sliman.
























A man like you deserves another, better life.













It's not a woman, it's a Countess.




Okay. But in case you need it, I know where he is.

With that woman, with the diamonds. Remember?






































































- You should be loved by women.










Especially women without escorts.






































































The city of Oran. Okay.













I understand you well, Pepe.




















Okay, Albert. I'll be back in two hours.


- Nine in the morning.






He'll be back, he's not a kid.















And to dream of Paris, to remember how you lived there, to miss your family and friends.




























- Really, Tanya.















- You're writing letters to this woman.

















But, Pepe... my friends will take care of you.

Okay, I'll wait.








Yeah, her friend.


- It's funny, isn't it?















So her friend isn't gonna be there?







- Let go of me, I'll tell you the truth.








Carlos is under arrest, it's true.

You read my letter, it's true, too.
















She leaves at 10:00 a.m.





Tanya, tell your friends to keep an eye on him, and take care of Ines, she needs support.






You're a woman, you know what to say.




Let me go, be a good girl.












The best thing about traveling is going home.
And I was happy here and a little sad to be back.














"It's been a day, and it's night."





Go on, Fanny, darling.









Go on, Fanny, darling.
















And so are you, my dear.





It's on you, Mary, darling.





Oh, my dear, you're shaking.




My dear, did he propose?


But I was sitting with a poor woman whose husband--













Oh, honey.






























Yeah, I mean, really?


Phoebe, darling, I wish you great happiness.







I sat with the poor woman whose husband was killed in the war, and when I left her house, he passed by.
















Doctor.





Really, smoking is a terrible habit.










Honey, honey.





The wedding dress, my dear.




















That night, a week ago, when he took me home from the concert.






Dr. Brown!



































































I made friends here - two very nice ladies.










Yes, darling.








It's like women, you know.

















































Come on, kids.
Kids, you'll all come back to your desks, please.














Kids, you're free to go.






Dr. Brown.
This is Dr. Brown.



















I'm letting the kids go.




Most of them are golden children, and this is the last day of the semester.































My dear.









If enough goose goes around, Susan, no smart woman gets a husband.




























No more than any hopeless woman in all the royal estates.



It must be in vain to pretend you're particularly good.





Oh, it's gonna be a beautiful year for women, ma'am.

Who can take their wooden feet off every night, Miss Susan?
































































I'll make sure your niece has a lovely evening.










Come to your senses, my dear, come to your senses.




















We thought maybe we'd spend the evening here with Miss Susan at the card table.




















































Were you really scared of them, Blade?
































Yeah, really.


Why didn't the doctor tell her?


































Captain Brown came to visit you, my dear.


I'm sorry to find that you're not better.















If what she's telling us is true, sir, she's always well cared for.





















There's been a confession in his eyes this week, and I intend to take him down tonight.












Dear Miss Livvy, Luna is so beautiful, will you take a walk and let me show it to you?





























They're going to see Miss Livvy, so she better go home immediately.



























Really?




















































Oh, forgive us, Phoebe, darling.




They're not paying attention to you, my dear?

















Have a nice day.




I so want to get to know Miss Livvy better.








Really, sir?



























Are you really talking about Phoebe?





































My love, darling,












It may include bypass roads, but it's still the best way.








Good morning, Phoebe, my dear.







When our friends come by today, I'll tell them she's back home.

Good morning, Susan.
















Stay still, Livvy, my dear.




Good morning, ladies.














Good morning, Patty.














A woman should never talk about it, sir.


A woman has the same floating sign as a man, Mr Brown.
And... the old girls have a floating sign just like the women's.





They say a woman can never completely forget the man who treated her badly.


Good morning, Patty.





















Oh, Phoebe, darling, I wish you happiness.










How are you feeling, dear Miss Livvy?



In this case, Patty, I think she should see a doctor.





Actually, I think you all should go.














- Good morning, Sergeant.























Miss Livvy is much better, sir, and she agreed to come out to see you.




































































































































Dear Phoebe Trossel...





































And there, my loyal friend... you will kill her!










































It's gonna be okay! But I need somewhere to sleep at night.














There must be kids in the house.
And the table? What a sloppy kid!
























We're diggers, and that's our job:









































































































She's a woman!
And all women are mean.










Where are those kids?






























Who are you, my dear?




My dear princess! We're... uh...












































































Hey, women!
























































Now start your work, sorcerers.






















































Well, what's up, darling?













Hey, women!




















And don't forget, my dear:



See you tonight!









Okay!











Are you here alone, my dear?








Yes. Taste it, bite it off, my dear!










































Take the apple, darling, and make your wish.


























And how did our dear Saxons take the news, Sir Guy?



- Is there a better moment than that, Sir Guy?
My dear brother had no idea that he could be captured and that power over England would be transferred to my caring hands.
















Didn't he refuse to send men to work in the fields of Guy of Gisborne?




















- You're not gonna kill a man for the truth, are you?

















- Really?






In all the woods, you won't find a hunter better than me.






Good food, good company, beautiful lady society that flatters us, huh, Lady Marianne?
You should have come with me from London to see what brave friends we have in Nottingham?










- Maybe if I get to know him better. - Sure.

Any further objections to the new duty for our Saxon friends?






















He's the best archer in England, and my brave county sheriff is afraid of him!










With the best wishes of your brother, King Richard, may God bless him!









Sit down, sit down, darling.





















Such recklessness must have a good appetite.
True truth, Your Highness.













Which means that you, my friends, should collect not two coins, but three.























































Find Krippen, who makes arrows, and his friends.





























- Only someone better than me.
























































The whipping, the beating, the piercing of the eyes, the burning of houses, the bullying of women.




And he can provide shelter and food to a group of good, determined men, good archers, swordsmen and fighters.






Protect all women, whether poor or rich, from Saxons or Normans."



























All the peasants and the woods are his friends!
















































I'm fine here.





















Come with me, and I promise you the best deer pie, and the biggest one, you've never eaten that!























































- Okay, Little John.












































































Friends!
Friends!















Friends!








Aren't you afraid of the truth?


- Okay.











- Friends, have you eaten well?






They came to me for protection from your Norman friends.




























Take six men and escort our comrade and his nervous friend to the Nottingham Road.





You better go before I change my mind.
We'd better go.









































He's the best shooter in the North.
And he's gonna want to be the best in England.







- Okay.



Even if he appeared as a priest, poor or beggar, what could hide the best shooter in England?










No, my dear, it's in case the Saxons make a mess.












Ever since our friend went crazy, I've had to keep an eye on him.































Very good!





The arrows are too close to each other. Can we take them out so we can shoot them?



























Good idea.























































































































































































Please, my dear, this is where you put yourself in danger every minute.




- Robin, darling!






No, listen, darling.



Then I realized that England wasn't just Normans and Saxons fighting each other.






- Goodbye, darling.








Luton had a nice sitting yard.













































Then I wish you a pleasant evening and may God keep you safe.



















It's in the spirit of my dear brother!

























Good for my friends.














- Let's be honest with each other.


































You're absolutely right, my dear.










Robin's gonna take care of her, it's okay.


















Are you a friend of our King Richard?
Best friend ever.



All Richard's friends can walk freely in this forest.






- I hope it's not good.
































- He's in the safest, best hands of England.



























All the fat will come out of you from the end of the day, my fat friend.

































- You know the prayers, my friend?









































If he taught poetry from the Bible for Sunday school, he would be a good boy.







But maybe it's better than that!





























And no gaps, right, Aunt Polly?
























Is that what you call a job?

Well, all I know is Tom Sawyer likes this job.




































Don't cry, Sydney, darling.





Honey, I got something for you.



















































Okay!
Very good.











Well, my young friend, what's your name?




















































































Well, just say the same thing to each other, and you're engaged.

Okay, not now.


















Really?


















Okay, that's my most precious treasure.






















Okay. I'm going fishing now.




















And this is Dr. Robinson.


Better the devil than him.



First the job, then the money, that's the deal.























The doctor wasn't home all night.
















































































Okay, be a hermit.











Looks like they're looking for Dr. Robinson.



































What's good about being a pirate is nobody makes you wash your feet.


And I'm sure she made you wear a tight collar or put you in bed every night.

Okay, well, we don't wake up from their screaming in the morning.
My mom didn't scream, but she sang beautifully this morning.










"And even though sometimes they prank, "boys are boys, "they will remain the most precious treasure for us."



Poor, poor kid.



Okay, Aunt Polly.



Aunt Polly, maybe you should lie down.



















Those boys were my friends.
You have one friend, me.
And you better hide.
Friends, we are here to honor the memory of the three beautiful boys who left us at the dawn of their youth.




I'm not gonna talk about his kindness to small and large... or his old age in domestic work.




And last of all, my friends, but who we won't forget, the one we were supposed to love is poor, but the persistent child of nature is Huckleberry Finn.

How noblely he strived for the better to become a useful member of society.


















































































They found the doctor's body, and they arrested Mef.














Your Honor, please postpone the meeting until tomorrow morning.








You're so kind to me, better than anyone else in this town.
I'm telling you how many boys have shown me where fish bites better, and they've been nice to everyone, and now they've forgotten me when I'm in trouble.


The first comfort to a man in such trouble is to see the faces of his friends.





... tell the truth, and nothing but the truth.





























He didn't kill the doctor!





All right, kids, let's go to the cave!

Kids, don't go too far from the entrance.


















All right.



Yes. We'd better get back.







Hurry up, kids!










































































































































































































































































Very good.












































I listened to the children sing, and I remembered how we sang 20 years ago.









Okay. Tell them I'm on my way.

Okay, Father.
















- It's good to have you home.






















- No, really.

























































































































































What are you doing with my baby?
- What are you doing with the baby? - Hold him.














































































































- Okay, okay.





















- But good.
Very good.











- Okay.









































































































Father, you taught me how to face the truth.



























Okay, Rocky.

























































Really?





















- Good evening.
















































- Okay.










































Tell Kiper I'll come in the morning.










Rocky's gonna be in El Toro in the morning.














Good morning.
































Okay.




I have a better idea.












































































The hard work has to be left to me.


- Nope. - Okay.







































































Do you understand? - Sure, okay, Rocky.
- Great. We're friends now.

Okay, Soapy.







- Okay.


















































Jerry, I've been answering questions all morning.




- Well, it's a good thing it's over.




















- I'll find you. - Okay.












And in the morning, everything was in the socks.






































































































Okay.









- Yes. - Okay.









Babe, why don't you give up your cheap job and get a job here?



It's good to have one friend here.




Okay, thanks.



If I knew about it this morning, I'd save some money.






















And you'd better get some of them instead of him.








Okay, Rocky.



Outside the center, the children will also see the vile corruption, the crimes, and the criminals.







































Okay, I'll do it.








Okay, Father Connolly, I'm with you.















And whatever they do to him, whatever he becomes, bad or good,..

























...remove those officials who, without knowing the truth, were chosen, and those who manipulate them from the shadows.

What's the truth about Rocky Sullivan's racket and raider?












































































I'm Connolly's father, old friend Rocky.




















































































































































































































If anyone says it's true...











It's true, guys.


Okay, friends, um...


Good morning, Miss Svalow.
Dr. Huxley's thinking.















The intercostal clavicle will be here tomorrow after four years of hard work!


















- And you keep doing your job. - Alice...
From now on and always, nothing should harm your job.




You mean kids and stuff?

This is gonna be our baby.
Yes, David. I see our marriage is all about your work.
































Dr. Huxley, you seem to be in error.





Dr. Huxley, when I play golf, I only talk about golf...








Okay.











Anyway, I forgive you because I took a good shot.



































































- Okay. - Are you okay?




























Good evening, sir.






- Good evening, Louis.
- Good evening, Mr Brown.





No, I'd rather...




I'd rather hold on to her.














- Okay!







I don't know how to apologize, really.































I'm Dr. Fritz Lehman.

































My dear young lady, I'm nothing at all... but what they call the last ball...







































- Let me, darling.


Okay.










































































And I hope you realize that you've made fun of yourself.
























I have to have dinner with him tonight.































I feel like I'm better off.





















Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.































No woman should interfere in my business.



- Dr. Huxley?




















I said, "Good morning, David." Don't you need a leopard?






























































"Dear Susan, I'm sending you Baby." Baby, it's him.






- No, really. Listen.

It's stupid, but it's true.
































You found a real friend.


















Good morning.
- Good morning, Professor.
- Good morning.






Okay.












































Yeah, very expensive feathers.








































I'd love to go to the circus... but you better leave your tickets, 'cause I'm busy tonight.




Oh, good.
























Last night, she tried to steal my wife's purse.










































































Okay.














































"It's gonna be okay."




























It's so lovely to see you and dear George here.




- He's a friend of Mark's.




He writes that David is an old friend of his.


























































































And it's important to me and my job.








You can tell her I'm Mark's friend, and I have cockroaches in my head... but don't tell her my name.













































































































































- He's a friend of Mark's.






































What, Alice, darling?



















































It was this morning, anyway.

















He's really got...





























- I'm sure they'll like each other.






























Susan, imagine how you're throwing a party, and your husband's whole dinner is wandering... like the spirit of Hamlet's father.















The doctor's chasing the dog!










































- Okay.





Well, that's better.










Okay. But you'll regret it.

Instead of sitting around a table and having dinner... they're screaming and screaming at each other like ghosts.






















































He's got two doctors.





























































































































No, I think it's a good idea to continue our walk.












Wouldn't it be better if I went first?




























They like each other.








- Okay.















- Really?











If you were planning this, you were able to destroy all my hopes in the best possible way.










He's not gonna remember that I spent four years of hard work... on brontosaurs.








The owner has a job for you.





You think three minutes alone with this cat could have ended up good?



































- Good evening, gentlemen.

















































- Really?




















































































Okay, I know enough to go where I don't want to go.













Everything I do with my best intentions... turns out bad.


Okay.






























- Okay.


You better get downstairs, Fritz.
- Sing if you want, darling.


































































- I'd know the truth.








I want you to tell me the truth.







Look, young man, I want you to tell me... exactly everything you've been doing tonight?







I expect you to tell me the truth.
If you wait until she tells you the truth, you'll grow a long gray beard.






























I have children myself.













You're a good officer.









We caught him in front of the butcher shop in Dr. Lehman's stolen car.









































































Well, like you said, Doctor, they're all lying.

















- Why did you break into Dr. Lehman's house?


Doctor, they're standing on their own.











You'd better keep talking.






























Okay, open up.















Okay, doc, another woman.











Susie, tell me the truth.






















If you just tell the truth, we'll try to do everything we can...































































I'm looking for a man named Dr. David Huxley.


























- Okay.




















The truth.
















































































































I was so happy when I found this bone this morning.








I just realized it was the best day of my life.



- That's why it was so good.
- Did you really like all this?




- Really?

































Isn't that right, Martin?




No, really.




























































































































- Good morning, Lemel. - Hey.


























Good morning, gentlemen.



- Good morning. - Hello.





And the kids are afraid of him.



True, he's a little private, but he's a great teacher.


Some of them are bad and some of them are good. Like everywhere.

Bad or good, we'll fight foreigners.















You can't yell at kids.

Children are very vulnerable.


Believe me, Mr. Lemel. Screaming is a bad way to raise children.
If I start yelling in your ears too to teach you good manners, just like that...

























































Are the kids afraid of me?




























It's not good to keep an eye on friends, Fermier.




























































































I saw five women. Or even six.




































Kids are so fragile.















Looks like our young friend was trying to escape.



Okay.
Plan, go get his friends.







All right, Mr. Director.






















































































Do you really think art is useless?












That's a good thing about a lotto.












In a decent boarding school, children who do not sleep at night are punished.
















We'd better get back to the dortoire.

























Every morning he asks.




















































Bohm and Macroy talked to each other a lot.







Go to bed.
All right, Mr. Director.






































Your friends have escaped, and you're preparing to escape, too.


































Don't deprive the children of lemonade.


Isn't that right, Mr. Walter?

















































Keep an eye on the kids.



Doctors............................................










Okay.










































































Okay.

























He wrote a novel. He didn't have anything more expensive.



















































Okay.


























































Good thing the kid's here.
































































































- Okay.

























- That's our friend.

Ah, your friend!



































































I would never hurt a child.

It's true.




- Good news.








Well, not really.





















My friends, thank you.






Mr. Strauss, it's only out of respect for your father that I hired you to work for our bank.




















What are you doing? Why don't you tell me what you're doing here when you're working?

































I'm women.


I love it, but a good goulash...















Look, Paulie, a woman should be able to distract a man from his cares.













Hans Puffelfinger, he's the best fagotist in Vienna and he's out of work right now.







You have a good son, Mrs Strauss. I warned him.














































My wife is a charming woman.












Schmidt, Rudolph Schmidt. Good day, Rudolph, good day.























Your friends may be shocked.
It's time they changed their minds. Did you find each other? Yes.











































Honey, you must be terribly tired.






Bohemian again, darling.




Very good, 50 guilders. Tony, I'm ashamed of you.
At least a hundred. Okay, honey, a hundred.
That's better.

























My dear wife...
My new mom and dad, dear colleagues.








You'll find no respect for a man, no honesty, no sincere feelings for everything I've found here, in my wife, in my music, and in my friends.




Good evening, Strauss, I was told I'd find you here.





























- A thousand? Okay.






Roses from the south of Wals Johanna Strauss Vino, women and songs





There's a woman here.








































































Let's get to work, Rosie.


It's only 6:00 in the morning.



























































Come on in, guys. Good morning, Mrs Strauss.
















Okay, I won't bother you again.
































All right, let's go. It's better for both of us. Forget about Vienna at all.

I mean, there's too much distraction here.

We have a lovely new house, friends.







































































I don't like to grunt, but don't you want to go to the theater?
I'm much better and quieter here with you.















They're attracted to each other.









She's a pissed-off and expansive woman. For her, it's... it's just a whim.
Mr. Strauss isn't meant for a woman like that.
































Really? People do stupid things like that sometimes.











Love is enjoyed by other women, by those who steal, by those who lie, by those who have no heart.




I'm supposed to be at the play. I'll play a better role than she does.
























His happiness with you means more to me than his love.


































You remind him and keep an eye on him, 'cause the Hungarians are dangerous women.








You are the happiest woman in Vienna.


Good night. Good day, Mrs Strauss.






















Oh, women, vanity is your name.


































Good morning, darling!













Good morning, goliath!
























Here, darling, as the doctor said.
Do you know my friend Mr. Andersen?

































- We've been cleaning up here all night.






- That's a great idea, isn't it?





Oh, you shouldn't... not at your age, darling.









"A reckless night" is very good and expensive.








Didn't Ken's secretary call last night?




















Only tomorrow morning.








I'm sorry, Jane, but I asked you to wait till morning.
Don't worry, darling.







It's better to get it back.










Things aren't good.




- Good morning, madam.
- Good morning, Melbourne.










Hey, Jane, honey!






Jane, darling, tell me what happened.
















- What good is that?

If a woman can't hold a man, it's her fault.


















You know the saying about apples and doctors?






































We need an experienced secretary to work here. I'm afraid that...











































He doesn't know anything about your work.





















- Hello, darling!


Yes. Drinked a cocktail with an old friend and client.


- I wanted to tell you, darling...




I can always settle in on the couch with a good book.








All women!

- Good perfume.


















- Oh, I'm sorry, darling.



When do we have to see each other?






I guess I better send a letter, don't you think?
























What I'm getting isn't gonna give me much. I want this whole job.


Okay, but I don't want to inspire you.





- Good morning, boys.
- Good morning, Miss Blake!




























Because there wasn't a word of truth there.
- But it's a good story.







Let's have lunch tonight and discuss the possibility of making contact?












Tomorrow night?




























He played her for 40 weeks every night.













- Hello, darling!












- The one you were talking about last night?
- Not very well.












- No, honey.


- Good morning, Joyce.
- Good morning, Jane.








That you're a good girl of normal appearance, but you know what you're doing... and so am I.













- Good morning, Jane.
- Good morning.









Mrs. Dexter is a beautiful woman, but...







- Good confession.


There's only work in the office...
And secretaries... and secretaries are much more attractive than work. Especially when they're attractive.

- Shouldn't we take the letter?











I was doing a job for Parkinson, and he sends me stuff like that every year.









- I mean my friends.











- But I really...













- You really think so?











Miss Briggs can't do all the work alone.



Well, okay.



- Hello, darling!








- Thank you, darling.















Yeah, very qualified, she just has a lot of work to do.

Thank you, darling.

- Okay.


Okay. Three o'clock, and not a minute later!









































Lombard must be throwing out receipts on the street so trusting women like you can get caught up in it.




Honey, it's not worth the trouble.


Honey, she's not that bad.




I was just hoping there'd be something beautiful out there that I could wear tonight when we went out.
Nothing, darling.
Yeah, we... we haven't gone out in a while, have we?
You're always alone in the evenings.






I'll tell you what we'll do. Let's go out Friday night!






Are you free Friday night?











- Okay.





































- Okay!











- Okay.

Yes, sir? - Order a four-way table for Pierre's tonight.






Therefore, I will not be able to submit to this archoline graviscopy because I invite Miss Blake to dinner tonight.








You know, secretaries sometimes have to work in the evenings.



















So, you figured out what you have as a secretary, out of what you didn't have as a wife, right?











My husband and I are going out tonight to have fun.









You'll go tomorrow night.




If you're happy, there's nothing better.






- You realize you're not working anymore?




Good evening, Mr. Dexter.



- Okay, if you can handle it.


















When we're not at work, I call him Kenny-Venny.







- It's a nice place, isn't it?


























Honey, what did you tell me the other day?

Isn't it graceful?
Very nice, isn't it, Barney?


















He asked me to come, and the good secretary always listens to the boss.


But it's true.























- Isn't it good?
















So soon? The evening's just begun.










This girl has more than one woman deserves.

You can always recognize a woman who didn't know a real man.



So that's what's bothering you all night.




Yeah, that's a good idea.
Barney has your first job?
- Yes. - Tell me, is he good?



Hello, darling.


















Okay.






- Okay!


What if we went to my penthouse and finished the evening?























I'm using this place for... creative work.
















But the view is much better from my... studio.
You never once called me a kitten all night.















You've been looking at her all night.












































Oh, honey!








Yes, it is, darling.



Does your husband always take a secretary for dinner tonight?

Isn't that right, darling?








I'm your friend.


You know, I'm always happy to help out a friend.
Well, Mr. Dexter, Kitty and I want to thank you for a pleasant evening.







Okay. I'll send them tomorrow morning.


















We've barely escaped danger and earned a good rest.























































































But you have to believe me, darling.











And you better go to bed before Kitty catches you.
I'll think about it and I'll tell you in the morning.




Ken, darling.

Honey, I thought about it... and I thought we shouldn't wait for breakfast.




Honey, I'm serious!





Honey, I only came here to apologize.



















Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,











There you go. Are you feeling better?











That's good.
The couple in this game are as good as the ace.












































































- Nice work, sweetheart!











































I think you'd better buy me a drink.
- I know what's best for me.








I'm making the best coffee in Bottleke.




















































































I'm not bragging, I'm really good.








Is your real name Destrie?































Okay, Callohan, what do you think?







Okay.



















Isn't that right, Frenchy?



















































He shouldn't have been impressed, should he?











































Guys, I think the deputy knows what's best for him.











































Okay, okay, I'm leaving.










































You go home and I'll be a local drunk again. - It's best for everyone.
- You're not gonna be a drunk again and I'm gonna stay here and do my job.







Okay.







- Okay, Mom.



- It's a good store, isn't it, Tom?











A friend of mine collected stamps.
He said, "Marks are good for sticking to something..."






























- Yes. - Okay.

Okay.











Look, son, I'm older than you, and I was your father's friend.







Okay, Wash, talk.






























- You're gonna be okay.


























But I told you about this woman.


















































- I came here to get a job, and I think I'd better follow my mind.











- Okay.





- It's my job.








You'd better get out of town.
















































































I had a friend, an opera singer.









I think I'd better stay here.
















I'm a real mole, I'm gonna be the best tracker.










Of course, two underdogs are better than one!





















- Why not? That's better, answer straight.






















Then it's better to sit here and wait for the corpse to find us.











- How did you know? I read somewhere that women always dream of quiet and quiet only after a hurricane of violence.

But you better think about it yourself.















Good evening, Mayor Slade.






































But if we knew where it was, that would be a good condition.




It's something to celebrate with wine, and it's the best.











Kent reminds me of a friend from Kansas who's a big wine fan.

I had this friend in Louisiana.
































It's about Hyp Watson's family and friends. He's being sent to prison on a murder charge. That's all.










Yeah, good job.




I guess I'd better call you judge now.





















































































































Yeah, you better take care of me, that's the law.

























Okay.



- Good evening.













I'm just tired of Bottlek and my work here.










I'd better get back to work.













Okay, talk.













- I hope it's a good story.













- Okay.










































The neighbors who shot each other over their lower skirt?








And one morning he met an Indian tribe and he had one knife on him.









No, it's better to spend a hundred years in the mines!












I had a friend in Texas...


- What else, a kid or a gunfight?
- The baby!
- Don't forget, tomorrow night is a grand discovery... "Bella Union."










Joe Triplett, an off-duty coroner at the test lab, reached the following verdict:















The pitcher gave the money back quickly. It's not a job, it's a pleasure.


























- Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry, but I have a wife and children.











- Maybe, but if it was my job, I'd pull that bastard out of the shit.






























General Miles says you're the best scout in the army.





















- Okay.
- Are these weapons an app to work?























Tonight in Bella Union!




- Okay, Pete.




But no one can be good enough for Bella Union.











Go on, my dear.






























- Your best three cards.

















































Okay, maybe it'll make you change your mind.
Are you gonna watch me process your friend?
- Doc, he's... he's not my friend.

- I don't like your style in this town.






























Pablo's a good boy.















Tonight at 9:00 P.M., he's gonna be performing at Bella Union.









- Nice gun.















He may be good for you, but not for me.

















Doc, listen, I'm gonna be out early tonight.


Not tonight.




And how do you feel about a cozy corner and a bottle of good cold wine?























- I thought it was the best way out.
- Perhaps the best for you.


























And this is John Holliday, the young doctor, all night long sitting with sick kids?

















- Doc, it's okay.


- Jerry, honey, thank you.

There's a dilijan who leaves in the morning.













































Um, okay, I'm gonna be funny.



Ladies and gentlemen, we have a big surprise for you tonight.

There's no need to tell you how good he is.










Sunday morning, nine o'clock,
Dan McGinty, when he woke up from sleep, washed himself in his best suit, dressed himself, went out for a walk and looked at the wall.
Then his friend, young Pat McGann, said, "I'm gonna bet five dollars, Dan, what I can do without dropping, you're gonna be raised upstairs on this very tall wall."


And then McGinty, an old crook and a fool, decided to cheat his best friend.





And in the best costume I've ever had to wear.











































We did our job.











- Keep drinking and you'll be dead by morning. - Yeah?
















































- Okay, I'll be right out.







- Okay, but it's not about me.


















- Okay, what am I gonna do?































































- Okay.
- Dilijans leaves at 6:00 in the morning.




- Yeah, it's a good investment.




- Okay.




















































































I thought we were friends.












































Somebody find the doctor.
- The doctor's in Bisby right now.












- Okay, Doc, just for you.




It's your job.





- Sorry, honey.










- Yeah, taking care of the sick is a very ungrateful job.













You'd better go.










If you and this woman...





















I like the city, I like your friend Marshal.






















































- He'll be back by morning.





















- The doctor's not in town.
- Can someone go get Dr. Holliday?


- Anybody bring Dr. Holliday?















Do you know where the doctor lives? - Yes.








- Okay, Doc.
- The doctor's gone.



Where does the doctor store the tools?






















Okay, Doc.




Wash your wrist well.



- Please, Doctor.







- Doctor?
- He's got a chance, a good chance.


When you get back, Dr. Dorsen will tell you what to do next.







- It's better to give life than to take it, isn't it? - Yes.


But I killed your friend Doc Holliday. And now you're in line!

















You and your friends should come out and give up peacefully.





You'll live if your friends stay out of it.































Isn't that great, Scarlett?
















































































































You're just a kid.


















It's okay, Pork.




She gave birth to a child from you.
My baby, ma'am?








He's the best manager in the county.











You look tired, darling.






































Ashley likes girls with good appetite.
















She's taking the manager's report, she's coming in tonight.









Good morning, girls.

Good morning, Scarlett.


Good morning, Miss Scarlett.



Scarlett, darling!


















No one better than Ashley can entertain a girl.







Really?




















You don't think I'm gonna find a better boyfriend than this kid?







- Okay, Scarlett.
- Of course, darling.












Honey, he's not welcome anywhere.




One night, he took her for a ride without a date and then refused to get married!















Is it better than at the table?























You're acting like white jackass kids!






































- I'm sorry, but it's true.













He's one of the best shooters in the country, and he's proved it on several occasions.




































We're the same blood and we understand each other well.






You'll marry a fool who can only say yes and no and have children like that!






























Melanie, you're too kind to see the truth.

































Excuse me, darling?
Honey!






- Really!

Don't cry, darling.































Is that really what you want?





Savannah would be better.





















It's no one but our friend from Charleston, Captain Rett Butler!









































































It's like breaking the blockade, isn't it?






































There aren't any women in Paris in these pants.


























Isn't that right, Rhett?























Don't, darling.
















- Your friends?











Ashley is alive and will soon return to the women he loves.




Oh, my dear, how long have I waited!
Melanie, my dear wife!

Scarlett, darling.





















Thank you, darling.












Good night, darling.










Okay.






















































































It's good money, even though it's mine.




But they're not good Christians like you.














Dr. Meade, they're coming.

































The doctor's waiting for you in the O.R.






























- And the doctor was?


























We're the same and we're made for each other.

I heard Mrs. Wilkes is expecting a baby.



































She shouldn't have had a baby.


It's not my baby.








Allow me, Doctor.
- I can do everything. - Okay.




Scarlett, we're in charge of his baby.













And your baby!




Is it true the Yankees are coming?



















Scarlett, darling.











Child.......................................























They say the doctor went to the barn where the wounded are lying--















We have a lot of work to do.



I'm not leaving soldiers for the baby.


Look for a woman.









Having a baby isn't that hard.



Is the doctor coming?








We have to find a doctor!
I don't know anything about taking kids!













































It's better than any doctor.




























Will you go with a sick woman, a child and a black girl?











Okay, okay.



Now blow your nose like a good girl.



Stop and take the baby!




It's gonna be okay, Mellie.




































It's better if you don't see it.








It's a good thing you're not in the army.







Maybe it's for the best.



It's not us, it's you, darling.








































I didn't love any woman more than you.






But you're the woman who sends a soldier to death.



The truth has been told about you.

It's too weak for a woman like that.



























We need milk for the baby, and we don't know what's waiting for us at home.







It's okay!












Honey!












Miss Scarlett, darling.















































What do we do? What's to feed the sick and the baby?







I can't watch the sick and the baby!

















Let's get to work.















































































































It's good to see the kids again.
You have a good baby.

































































































I saw my friends tear to pieces.

























Dr. Meade said she couldn't have children.







Do you think I can leave Melanie with the baby?














Please, darling.












- Okay, I'll tell you.
I love your courage and stubbornness so much that I almost forgot my wife, who's the best.






















Is that how you talk to your friends?
Friends?
When did we become friends?






















































Too good for me, Major.













My debt is growing, isn't it, Major?






My dear sister!
It's okay.




I'll wait for the best time.







- Is that true?









I'm fine.















You have the heart of a real woman.



I really should have.








I want to hear the truth.



























So, darling, you shouldn't have humiliated yourself.























- What are you doing tonight, Susie?






We're your friends.
And you're voters, and you have to vote for your friends!






















I hope for the best.











































































My dear.
Okay, Melanie.




The best thing in Georgia's prisons.




Okay, so you're a ten.




Start in the morning.


A woman shouldn't be doing business at all--



And to buy it, we had to demand debts from our friends.







Okay.
Okay.


It explodes faster than any woman I've ever known.
It's none of my business, but it would've been better to hire Negroes than jailers.





















Look at our friends.







Okay.












Dear Mrs. Kennedy.



The woman is unstable!






















What a woman!


























Honey.



Men are only talking about protecting women, there's been an accident, and Frank's going to a meeting.













We'd better stop or someone's gonna talk.






































Good evening, Mrs. Kennedy.











We'll wait outside until he and his friends get back.






























Look, Doctor, I--



































































You were there, weren't you?






Mr. Wilkes was already wounded, and the doctor was there.



She and I are old friends.
























Why can't I thank the woman who saved my husband?
Mrs. Wilkes, you are the kindest woman I know.












She's a very cold woman rolling around Atlanta alone.



































































I always wanted to be like her, good, good, she was so disappointed.






Since we first met, I've realized that you're the only woman I need.





I'm sorry if I scared you with my passion, dear Scarlett-- I mean, dear Mrs. Kennedy.






















You need an experienced man who knows women.

















Look at me and try to tell the truth.








- Yes, you're right, my dear.





And the most expensive honeymoon in New Orleans.


It's wonderful you won't tell anyone, will you?






































- What can I find, darling?



Honey...






































I have the right to see the baby.


































It's lucky when the kids are born.





The most beautiful child in the world.



I'll send her to Charleston's best school.
And you'll be accepted into the best families in the South.










Most babies are born with blue eyes.

He knows everything about the kids.









You gave birth to a child.
















I don't want to have kids anymore.
My kitty, I already told you I don't care if we have one kid or twenty.






Melanie can't have children, and he...























I knew most women were liars and hypocrites, but this...






Think of the baby.

You're a smart woman, Beauty.

Isn't that right, Rhett?

You're both practical women, you're both successful.








- Good morning, Mrs. Merriweather.
- Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.



- Good morning, Mrs. Whiteing.
- Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.





Good morning, Mrs. Mead.
Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.















Good morning.
Good morning, Dolly.

Good morning, Caroline.
I think there's a lot of good in a man who loves kids so much.










Okay, darling.












You're gonna be the best rider.


Isn't she wonderful?

Okay.





























I didn't mean to grieve you, my dear.














I don't kill those who tell the truth.























What a lovely dress, darling.



Mrs. Meade, here comes our dear Scarlett.
- Good evening.
- Good evening.

- Good evening.




















- Yeah, I'm very drunk and I'm gonna get more drunk by the end of the night.




How did you feel with the woman you tricked?


























I've always admired your self-control, darling.



















Back pain isn't good.











I thought, and I realized it would be better for both of us to admit that we made a mistake and get divorced.


There's no point in keeping each other.
















You're not taking my baby out of this house.
But it's my baby, too.





You pretend to be a good mom and the cat is the best mom.





I've been waiting for you all morning.








Only if you want to, darling.


It's okay, Bonnie.









Good evening, Mr Butler.
I didn't let you leave the baby in the dark.
Children are often afraid of the dark, but they must cope with their fear.


You're either a fool or a heartless woman.
















My dear girl!














A child needs a mother, even a bad one.









Because I'm expecting a baby.




What kind of woman would want to have a baby with such a bastard.



Is she better?











- Oh, no, she's much better.
Really.


She didn't want this baby.
You didn't want a baby?
Any woman wants to.

He doesn't want kids from me.
She said she didn't want kids.



I didn't know about the baby until I got here.














If it were true, I'd wait forever.








Scarlett's gonna be okay, and you're gonna have kids.
She won't be able to have children anymore.




The children are the sequel to life, Captain Butler.


I pray to God you'll be all right.
























You'd better think of me!










We're watching, darling.





























She said, "Give me the baby you killed."










- God knows it's true.
He won't let us bury the baby.













Captain Butler agreed to the funeral tomorrow morning.


Let's go get the doctor, Mommy.












It's morning.
It's not morning yet.






















































































I'm leaving you, my dear.




























Looks like we haven't been able to understand each other.

























And I don't care, darling.


































































































- The best hottie in the county.


- We'd better not get to know each other.






- There's a woman coming in.




















































































Yes, of course, darling.














































Women, carnal comfort.





















Really?



Joss is a good husband, and I don't regret what I did.
Work is hard and dangerous, and we all risk cutting the eyelids in shackles.
















































He knows how to treat women.











They cost a hundred times more than the lives of hundreds of drunken seafarers.
They're perfect, the best of their kind, and that's the most important thing.





I'll send her back in the morning.
























































Wait, I'll see if there are any women.








It's better to shoot.








I'll be there in a minute. - Okay.





You'll have a better place:










































































- And she was very good! In your absence, the butcher came in here, demanding payment of the debt.






You're just doing your job.




He's crazy, isn't he?






























That's what I'm saying. Women don't understand:













Now! - Dandy, bring the rope. - Okay.





Yeah, I'm not lucky with women.


























They must have picked up the boat. In case you need help, Mr. Tracrane, your good old friend Thomas is coming down to you!













I'm gonna be okay.














Funny, it's the first time I've seen a woman swim.











Good morning.







Ask Dr. McIntosh on my behalf to examine the wound.























































































- Aren't you gonna have a good brandy?






After you, my friend.

Get him a chicken with a claret in my office.




























There's been so much going on this morning. - What did the ships have in common?

Mr. Trackern, if it's true, it's awful.












































































- I couldn't tell her the whole truth.





- Okay.









































- You're fast, Mr. Trackern. - Of course, police time is expensive.



- Why didn't you tell the truth?


















Really, the door's locked now.







































Okay.






























- No, it's just a stupid joke from our friend.

I locked the women, the signal's on. There's only a leader missing.





Really, I'm gonna have to put his name in it.





































































Come on, let the women out of the bedroom.

I remember you were tried for poaching. I told you these friends weren't gonna make it.












You can do this, darling. Mind you, she's nervous.























I know your husband better than you do.




A woman must be loyal to a man, even if it's our friend Joss.





On the trigger. And it's gonna be okay.
















































There's only one harm to women here!

































Keep an eye on my merin, okay?



















Patience, darling.
Joss, it's gonna be okay.
I'll take care of you. You're good, Patience.













He's strong. He's gonna be okay soon. Really?











Okay, Joss.
Precise shot, isn't it?























I don't want anyone to see you like that.




















- Good question.












- I think there's gonna be a public execution. There's gonna be a lot of women.








































All right, sir.


Isn't this the best cabin?




Many of my friends have been impoverished, and I am as rich as a prince.
Really, drowned a hundred sailors.



















































And tell your children how the great century ended.



Okay.





How did he feel this morning?
Okay.


How is our dear Mr. Kidley?

That's good, that's good!



Good morning!






- Good afternoon. - How did Mr. Kidley feel this morning?


That's good.





















Oh, really?







- Okay...
Wait, when I see Dr. Schmidt this afternoon,

- Dr. Schmidt! Yes.


That's what he's gonna tell the truth.






































Ever since it became known that I have $20 million and bad health, every woman is willing to fall in love with me.








Okay, go open up. No! No!








There was a train... and there was a doctor, and he told me...















Oh, really, don't...?

That wonderful evening, when you danced with me, it all worked out.








Honey, of course it's me.























You're as innocent as a child... as a little child...














































- Well...




I don't think about anything else, Mrs. Marco.


- Okay.
















- I'll meet you at Dr. Schmidt's.
Okay.





































Okay.
Very good.
Yeah, but Doctor, I'm worried about these three white spots.











- What is it, Doctor?





























Doctor, how much time do I have left?








Doctor, leave your reasoning!
















Doctor, look, look, Doctor, this is starting!














I can bet you at 3:30, you and your friend.





They say cremation is a very good thing.







All right, sir!












- All right!
- All right!















Oh, Henry, darling!








Henry was good enough for me when we were poor farmers.


















































































You're a good girl, Mickey.

- Really?

























Which would be good if you were ready soon. - I don't like that tone. - Okay, Jeepers...


































I don't even know you... not very well.





Okay, I don't know.


























- Okay...


























Okay.







Do you promise to protect and love each other for the rest of your life?



Do you agree to marry this woman...








After the promises you made to each other...


























- All right, sit down!









































Isn't it wonderful?



- It's not good right now.

















Come on, darling.
I'd rather you didn't call her "darling," okay?

Isn't that nice, Mr. Kidley?

Whoa, darling!

























I can't get out of my head that an entire woman belongs to another woman.







- Okay.















Good night, Henry. I'll see you tomorrow morning.














Tomorrow morning doesn't suit me, Mr. Kidley.
- Well, okay.
















































- Sit down for a minute, okay? - Sure.







Women are romantic, sentimental.



- Yeah, really, I have some experience. Honestly, Henry.












- Okay.









- All right.





















- Okay.





Well, okay.


















































































It's true, but it's not my girlfriend, it's your wife!
















- Okay, close it!









Okay, I'll tell you the truth.








































Maybe I'm wrong, but after tonight, something has to be done... we're made for each other, and even if someone suffers...
Honey, talk to me, please.
















































- Okay.
- What do you mean? - Oh, John, my dear, there's something else:












Friends, let's get out of here, let's leave the young men alone.











Dear Henry, I want you to be happy with Mrs. Kidley.

Really?




Henry, can I recommend my lawyers to you? They're very good... they could follow Mr. Kidley's will.



























Okay...














































- Is that true?



























You're doing everything you can for me, you're one of the best people I've ever met.





























Well, after all, we barely knew each other, and it was all set up.













Yeah, and what happens is sometimes for the best, Mickey.
All right, see you later.







My friend, there's only one thing...

Yeah, it's very good, it's all... but what's gonna help me if I'm his... puff-f... if I'm gonna...



















It's true.







All right, Mr. Kidley!



























He's got a very good temper.



Okay, Mickey.















You have a good temper, too.






































Okay.




Oh, my dear John, it's our turn now.





































































Okay.






































Very good.





































































-...with a separate safe. - It's even better.















- Yeah, that's a good idea.













Yes, arrived this morning.











- Okay, Raconin.


- Okay, monsieur.

- Good morning, Swana.
Terrible morning! Terrible!












- Good morning, darling.
- Good morning.

Honey, it was in your best interest.





Honey, you're so kind to me!


















Okay, I'll take it.



- Hello, my friend.















Three Soviet representatives arrived this morning.







Thank you, dear friend, I'll be in touch.





















Okay.
Yeah, okay, I'll call you back.











































All right, we'll support Russia's prestige for another ten minutes.























































All right, talk to your lawyer.







Anyway, gentlemen, I represent a charming, elegant woman.






Have you ever seen what a French court turns into... when a beautiful woman sits in a witness chair and lifts her skirt a little?

































As a result of a long and serious examination of the matter... we have come to the conclusion that, in the interest of our beloved homeland... the best solution will be to share the values in half.


































































It's my job, madam.
It's not a job.








The Russians are getting smaller, but it's better than the Russians.



How does a civilization hope to survive... that allows its women to wear such a thing on their heads?















































- We had the best intentions.





Go immediately to our embassy... and get the address of the best lawyer in Paris.





































































































- It's beautiful, isn't it?

It's a good thing you were here before you disappeared from the face of the Earth.

















It's true, I'm not exaggerating.

























- Good evening, Gaston.
- Good evening, sir.


Good evening, comrade.











































































































Why are snails, the coldest things on the planet... endlessly reaching out to each other?















Perhaps one of your friends needs you.
You'd better answer that.





No, I met an old army friend.


















- No, I have a better offer.


Okay, you can fight me all you want, just wait till morning.


Tonight, let's only represent ourselves.





































Or better at the window?













Personally, at 5:00 a.m., I was fishing in Seine.

- Okay, monsieur.













































We're gonna win, even better.










Nothing is worth it, really.













If so, you'd better go back to your table.






























I wish this meeting hadn't happened.




"Is it true that people live on the moon?"

















Good joke?

























































Amazing, isn't it?














- Okay.










Yeah... yeah... and then he was in a good mood all day.
























You're made for each other."














"What are you doing tonight, madam?"







Honey, I...



















- But if you answer, it's the truth.



Last time I saw a picture of a woman on the table... in a wide silver frame.







That's the kind of woman you call social ladies, isn't it?



I don't think you get bored with a woman like that, 'cause she's smart, and...








Table for tonight?



Good evening, Your Highness.
Good evening, Louis.















- Fascinating, isn't it?













Good evening, Count d'Algu. Please.


















But the headache for the morning is worth the toast.



Hello, my dear!
- Hey, Swana. Good evening, General.





















































Don't you know how vain women are?
























Much better.





Good story?






I feel so good!



Of course, love. Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.

Honey, darling, please.









































- Okay, make it red.























Okay.








































"Honey, I took Gaston to the market this morning and...

Come on, darling, put it on.


Let them know what might look better.























- Good morning.

It's morning.





I know exactly how you feel right now, my dear.
It can't be a good morning if you wake up in an evening dress.




- Of course not, my dear!




















That's why you don't live in Russia anymore... and that's why you came here this morning.

My dear, you have no idea... what a powerful impression I can make.






You've taken our pebbles very lightly, my dear.
They're too expensive to be a toy for two kids.

Don't worry, luckily one of my very trusted friends took care of them yesterday.





















Okay, let's look at the facts.























Maybe it's better.









It's okay, thanks.





Truth be told, I'm a little tired, I'd like to rest.




Okay, let's go at 7:00.









Goodbye, darling.











Okay.
Leon, darling, I'm so glad!















Okay.



I could have picked up a hundred different epithets... but it would be better to say it directly.








































So when the ambassador goes back to Russia and his work isn't happy... they get rid of him?



















I want to see a friend...
A very dear friend...






















- No, but... I have a better idea.



















- Some friends... a modest dinner.




I saved two eggs on purpose... each of my friends will bring one more. We're not gonna stay naked.




















There's a bunch of women going by the laundry room today... and there's a bunch of women all around it.

























Yeah, it's a dress for tonight.
Then what do they wear in the morning?



It's true.







Nino, I wouldn't ask if we weren't good friends...

















As they say, the guests are good, but the houses are better.












A real meeting of old Parisian friends!
If you close your eyes and just listen to each other, we'll end up in Paris.






- There are two other women besides me.

























- And the swallows are back! - Really?













































Censorship will never touch our memories, will it?
Really.

- Good morning, comrade.
- Good morning, Comrade Commissioner.










Comrade, I'm afraid this job will have to be assigned to someone else.



Comrade, have you heard from your friends, Kopalya, Iranov and Bulianov?



















I really don't want to interrupt my basic work.





Let me finish the job...




Let me finish the job...







It's great, isn't it?

















- Friends, Nino, we're friends.















"Bread with water is better than a pie with trouble."

















We make friends.















In the beginning, there was "Dear Ninoche" and then "Your Leon."





Okay, if you don't stay, you're gonna have to keep fighting.





















































This flight I made for a woman.


















- That's right.

































- Good evening, madam.
- Good evening, Lisette.










- We're late, darling.





















Let me stay a minute, darling.





Then in the morning.






















Last night, I suddenly decided to be worthy of my wife.
I see a family picture: knitting, slippers, and lots of kids.
















My dear, I'm so sorry.

It's a good thing you're so uninvolved.




















- Okay, I'm crazy!





















































- Really?





Let me wish her a good morning.









Good morning, darling.

























Okay, tell me your secret.












Listen, darling.








Do I owe your friend an apology?







Or better yet, goodbye.








I don't want to be the woman who led to the despair of the great hero, the idol of millions.















Okay.





















You know you're a good person?





I know what happened between your friend and Christine.


That's very good!









The terrible truth of life is that everyone has their reasons.







They'd better see each other and explain themselves.














My dear, put this on the table.











- Yes, my friend, you wrote me about it.





Okay, Your Grace.








Very good.


















































































His Lordship wants to hire me?





































It was sunny this morning.


























- Hello, my dear.












- Did you really invite Jurier? - Really.










Even the child will understand.










Really?










My dear Andre.







My dear Journey, I'm proud to shake your hand.


















Dear friends,

































He must be in a good position.




























- Okay, but Countess...
















You know, or maybe, you don't know, to be good, you pour white wine on potatoes while it's hot.






- Yes, my friend?


What can you do, my dear?

- Are you cleaning your shoes, my dear?


Tomorrow morning, you will pick up your shoes at the door of the guest rooms.


- Yes, my dear.










I wish there was a good catch.















































- Have a good sleep.

Have a good sleep.














You want to have kids?










And Mr. Octava's friend's name is Andre Juriere.













Darling, I've never heard of this radio thing.


















- He was yours, my dear.

























































































Really?
- Really.













His Lordship is a better shooter.

















Okay.

























- That would be best.




























Good morning, Your Grace.





- It's better if I go.
Better?



Dear Genevieve, can we speak frankly?







But he's like a kid.

It's true.















Women should help each other at least once in a while.





What are you wearing tonight?


























Get used to your new job?




















Shoes, my dear!






























That's good.










































Ah, Your Grace... women are adorable.









Only Muslims have the logic of a man's and a woman's relationship.





I don't want to hurt anyone, especially a woman.




When it comes to a woman, I want to leave her or be with her, the first thing I do is make her laugh.






















I don't know, really.













My dear Christina, I apologize.
He'll have my seconds in the morning.
I sleep in the morning.





































I can't run away with the owner's wife, who calls me a friend and shakes my hand, without an explanation.
But if we love each other, what difference does it make?

Dear friends, may I present to you my latest acquisition.


















































I just told your friend that I love him.

Do you really love him?






















Tonight...









Now, darling, let's talk about us.



















































Yeah, honey, I'm going to bed.



Calm down, darling.
See you in the morning.
















- Really?








Have a good sleep.







Beautiful evening!


























Okay.

Darling, I'm asking you to leave, too.
























I wasn't better.
























Okay.





Stupid as kids.






















































Have a good day, Officer."














If I didn't have generous friends, I'd starve to death.



























































The train to Lamot-Bevron at 3:00 a.m. Let's take it.
















Okay.
































































































Tomorrow we will leave the château, mourning our lovely friend, a beautiful friend who made us forget how famous he is.
Dear friends, it's cool now.





Now that's rare, dear St. Aben.






















- Okay, Buck.







































Better stay away from this Luke Plumer, that's for sure.










It's good for business.


And remember, what's good for banks is good for the country.















Doctor, go, you're drunk.




Nobody in Kansas sets the table better than my wife Violet.

If words were money, Doc, you'd be my best customer.


Yes, my old friend. I thought maybe in memory of our many happy...













I never forget a friend's face.



Yes, darling, of course.










- Thank you, my friend.

- I'll take it, Doctor.








But you can't go without a doctor.
There's a doctor there, darling.

Doctor.


Lucy, honey, be careful.




































These women are worse than the Apaches.



You see, brother, I have a wife and five children...



































Good soldiers are escorting us.






- My friend sells whiskey.







That's a good name for a killer.




















Okay, Ringo.















Ringo's a good guy, isn't he?





My friends just call me Ringo.


























This is my old friend, Sergeant Billy Pickett.

- It's okay, Doctor.



































































You know, brother, given the circumstances, I think it's best to come back with the elephants, i.e. the soldiers.







































I was a good cowboy once. But everything happens in life.
















Okay, I'll say something with meaning.













His father and I were friends.























Why did you go this way?

















It's so good.
Please, Doctor.





We haven't seen any apaches, have we, Curly?





















There's a sick woman on our hands. That's all we need.
We're in a lot of trouble, folks.































This woman is from the Apache.








Screaming like a baby crying.
Child.......................................









Well, guys, hip-hip-ura to Dr. Boone.







He was a good friend.












Nope. I have friends there.
And maybe I'll find a job there.














Me too. Maybe I'm taking too much on myself, but... I looked at you and the baby with someone else's baby.


Nice place, very good place.



And a woman, too.
























I knew this woman was a thief.














- We need to think about a sick woman.







Good idea, Curly, just... the doctor probably needs to see the patient.

Well, let's have a drink, Doctor?

Good morning.


She didn't go to bed, doctor.


Okay, it was nice holding the baby.




- Doctor, do you think my husband...











Although the last child is always the most beautiful.


If a man and a woman love a friend, then it's okay, isn't it, doctor?















Why? Where were you yesterday when Ice came with the baby, Gatewood?



I don't want to interfere, but I have five kids.
Well, not me, but my wife. And I don't want to talk about it, especially now. But I'm afraid the doctor is in.










There's a young woman in the kitchen making coffee, she needs help.



Good morning, ma'am.
Good morning.




























But I can't leave Mrs. Melory and the baby.












My dear Buck. If I have an hour to live, I'm gonna enjoy it.
Doctor, of course, my samples are fine, but...


Curly... if we get to the ferry, everything's gonna be okay.
The only question is, what are we gonna do with the woman and the baby?
Dr. Boone has settled the matter, sir.




































Let us treat each other as Christians.












Then, march to the dilijans, to the women.










Look, I'm gonna take Mrs. Melory's baby half the ticket, huh?


Excuse me, Doctor.

I think it was a very interesting trip, wasn't it?





















Where's the baby, sweetheart?
I'll take the baby.












Here you go, Doctor. Sign, please.















































Write: "Ringo Kid was killed on Lorzburg Main Street tonight.













































Look, honey, I'm so busy right now.























What's with the gvalt when everyone has a job?
I know these three bums are gonna get out of work before she gets here!


Okay, Mrs. Gail.





You know, Dorothy fell straight-- not the best place to play.




































































































Now you better close your eyes, my child, for a minute to be closer to magical power.







Okay, there's a woman here.



















Do you think she's really sick? Ouch! Ouch!






Better hide, Sylvester!



















































It's okay, you can go out and thank her.








She didn't feel so good about it...













- Really, is she...
- It's true if she's-- in fact, that's how it is.
It's not fake, it's true, so...

No doubt she's dead.



























Well, my dear, I know how to do it, too!


















Okay, but I'll be back!
You know, my dear, it's true that I'm powerless here, but still, stay away.




She's gone. It's okay.


The sooner you leave Oz, the better it will be for you, my dear.














It's always good to start over.



















That's a good road.




















- Thank you, okay.















It's good to be free!


































You don't want to go.













Really, believe me.

























































































You're the best friends in the world.






Really, I don't think it matters anymore.
We know each other now, don't we?














































































It's gonna be okay.





















Now, my dears, here's some poison.





















































































That's better.














Really!











































Over here! It's okay! Stop!
It's okay.













































































Wait, guys, I just thought I didn't want to see this magician at all.
I'd rather wait outside.




Okay, we'll ask for you instead.




















































































And you're my darling, you're adorable.







Okay.



Good girl.































































Okay, I'm going there for Dorothy.















































Okay.






































Very good.











If you're really great and powerful, you have to keep your word!










I'm afraid it's true.







I'm a very good man.










So, by the power vested in me by the greatest of all the universities on Earth, I am happy to give you Dr. Dumania's diploma!
Dr. Dumania?
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Yes, (Dr. Dumania).
























Remember, my sentimental friend, heart matters not how much you love, but how much you love you.




Is that true?
Really?








Really?











And now it's in this ball, dear Dorothy, that you and I will return to the land of our ancestors!
It's the best demonstration I've ever had. Well, that's, uh, that's right there, so to speak...

















































God, it's too good to be true!


















There's no place better than home.








Better at home...

Dorothy, darling. This is Aunt Emmy, darling.







But I really wasn't there, Uncle Henry.




You remember Hank's old friend?







Nope. Aunt Em, it's true, it's true, it's true.









And Aunt Em, there's no place better than home!

























The best is always the last. Don't you think?











Really?


- Okay.










- Really?






- It's weird if a woman has a mustache.







































- A woman with a mustache?
























It's gonna be okay.



















If our kids find out...

It's better this way.







But if our kids start going to him, people, especially Rockay, aren't gonna like it.



























How could I know if she had kids or not?
And if I did find out by chance, I wouldn't want to see my daughter's children, who I gave up on.





































We don't have a grandmother, do we?
- Really.












- Honey! Honey!




































You're always weak and it's not good.















- Kin-chan is a humble child.






































































- But the best way is to write them off.

- Let's clear up the best way.














That's not true, is it?


























































































- Poor kids! Poor kids!

















The children are all at home.




- Aoyama fears me and uses her children to attract my attention.
















- Okay.











- That's a good idea.













































- He's much better, they said.







- Okay.






























































- Is she really gonna be beef?

- That's not true, is it?












- They sent it knowing that only women and children are in the house.






- It's gonna be okay.

























- Okay, I'll take Aoyama's debt.


















































But since you're a woman and you're Rockai's children, you can use it and take it away.



Okay?














He can make these children inheritors.




- That's good.























We're friends now.















Really?




























































That was good.

- Okay.









- You motivated it really well.

He's gonna make a good speech.
He's gonna make a good excuse before he's attacked by a chicken.



































































































































- Okay!


- You didn't do your homework and you got punished?

- You just went to bed last night.























































































Poor kids.











You two were very close when you were kids.


















His mom's good.














But maybe he thinks that if he can push the company against each other, he'll be in a good position.
- What if it's true?





He often said he didn't get what he wanted after years of work at "It."

So he wanted to improve the company and his position in it.




































- Kids should look straight ahead and walk proudly.









Honey!









































Hope, of course, okay, but that's what's gonna happen?





















This woman is interested in buying horses.

I'd rather kill all my horses than let this woman buy them.






























- Wonderful, isn't it?







Congratulations, sir, that was the best jump I've seen in a year.






















- Okay.










Evening


























































I flew over high mountains, melted down stormy rivers, I even loved other women, but I've never been as stunned, as helpless as I am now.






































































♪ If we fell in love ♪




















Congratulate me, darling.











Probably because it was my dance, darling.























- Good morning, Aunt Binnie.
- Good morning, Miss Crawford.





















The plane leaves tomorrow night.





































I'm Dr. Padilla, your father's friend from the embassy.




It's Dad's friend from the embassy.














On the envelope?





























It's a little unusual, isn't it?



Now, after we've met well, just call me Tito.
I have to say, there's nothing particularly formal about this, is there, Tito?














Sorry to leave you, darling.















I'm Dr. Padilla.





I've never been here all night.


Maybe it's better to start again.
I'm a friend of your brother's.

I, here he is, came here tonight to take your niece to the concert.






















Apparently, he's got four kids.

They always have five kids.


















I'm Tito Acuña, best guide in Buenos Aires.









This is really not where the tips come from in the wardrobe, which I made of myself.











































































- Oh, good.












It's like Westchester, isn't it?







































I'm Tito Acuña, best guide in Buenos Aires. And today was just a business that I wasn't paid for.




I've accompanied thousands of women, and no one's ever complained.
Really?







































This is Furioso, the best racer in Argentina.



















Okay, I'm gonna go.


















All right.








This is where our best horses are buried.



- That was my father's best horse.





























I'll be waiting for you. Have a nice day.
























































That's my father's best horse.

























Casiano, if my father finds out what you're doing to his best horse, he'll stick your ears to the stable door.






























Anyway, we're all gonna die sooner or later, aren't we?













Dreams winked at each other and disappeared.
They knew their work was done.



We didn't know each other at all.











If you fell in love with each other, do you remember?










He jumps with your dad in the morning, and he runs with you in the afternoon.
He couldn't jump over the bar this morning.

















He's gonna be okay.












A very good horse.











Okay.


- Glenda, darling, what a surprise.


















You may be Crawford, but you're a woman, and there's nothing I can do about it.


























The best thing we can do for him is not to interfere.
























- We've been trying to reach you all morning.

























































Tell me the truth before I rip your ears off.



































And this horse is even better.

































All for an old friend.































































































At first, I wanted Furioso off the race, but this guy said he was a good jockey.



Maybe this guy is a really good jockey.










































































And the truth is, he spent three weeks on Capri.





























Dreams winked at each other and disappeared.
They knew their work was done.






Dear friends.



And I think it's for the best.













One of Chaikovsky's works he didn't like was "Suit the Nutcracker." And she's probably his most popular essay.


























































It's okay.






































They will be followed by third-group dancers, and their smooth movements will inform us of the arrival of the evening.



The last issue of Fantasia is two combined works of art, so different in design and tone, that they perfectly balance each other.













I'm going to Cuba tonight and I'm not ready yet.






































Okay.





























































I've got a better story.

Really?

























It's better now.









I'm waiting for the morning when I come to wake up, and I'm gonna have to pull the blanket, not pull it back.







You get to the window at 6:00 a.m., you open up, you get in, and you get in bed.




Get up at 6:00 A.M., climb the windows...










I assume you're here as a witness to the transfer of property to our charming friend?




And this, my dear, is your ticket to Havana if you still need it.

Here's a good reason:






























Don't rush, darling, there's time to sail.

















Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. And good evening to my friends.






The true story of how an innocent child's hands softened the heart of a racketeer.


Well, gentlemen, Frenchy was fine outside the city a couple of weeks ago when his housewife was called out of the house, leaving Frenchy with her four-month-old.















Finish your work, finish your sobriety.



























There's nothing to be afraid of, he's an old friend of mine.





































































I know everything, really!

But I do know!





















































































Sorry to bother you, it's a job.


































































































That's too good, isn't it?






















That's good.
























It's a good thing he's in the suitcase.













Good evening, Miss Carter.















Nope. Just a friend wants a safe trip.

So, my dear lady, who called you?




Mr. Parada, you really have to go.


But, honey, I'm coming with you.















Why don't you sit down?


Yeah, that's better.

































Okay. Miss Carter saved my life.

















































I'd give you a lot for a good joke right now.




I hope you keep your sense of humor out of the castle, my friend.















We must be doomed to run into each other.










Okay.









Women are called Pilgrim. Dance with the new lady, I move forward.



















I know it's been a rough night, and I don't know what's going on, but don't lose your breath, darling.





















































Feed once a day, walk for a few minutes in the morning and in the evening.









Lock the door and don't open until morning.







































Good morning, Miss Carter.
Good morning.



























And here he is at the official luncheon to meet his friends.

































Tell your friends.































Yeah, before I forget, the Santana Hotel is good?

Best food at Las Palmas in Malecon.


And you? Yes. I've been thinking about tonight, and it's all set up here.











Good evening, Miss Carter.
Good evening.





I'm sorry, but my doctor warned me this morning of a nervous shock.






































Okay.


































































































































It's better than a knife.

















































































































































































































































Really?








But there aren't many bastards that make a good man stick on a car.




Looking for a job? - Nope.

































Hello, friend. - Same to you.










































Some people do good things, others don't. And that's all we can say.



































































































Our children are already malnourished.




















































I have two little kids at home, my wife, my mother-in-law.






































































It says that California is full of work.






















There's no choice, Tommy. But it's gonna be okay.
I've seen flyers, promise a lot of work and a high price.



























- Hello, Tommy, it's okay.















Well, she was just a kid when they took me away.
































Rosa Sarona, honey, wake up the kids.







This way, kids, get upstairs.



Connie, help Rose Saron sit next to the kids.






















































The kids were given when they didn't sleep.












































It's gonna be okay, Grandpa.




It's okay, Grandpa.

















I don't know if he was a good person or a bad person, but it doesn't matter.


But I won't pray for the old man. He's dead, and he's okay.






















Maybe when we get to the place, we'll find a job. Or maybe a piece of good land by the water, it's not gonna be that bad.


We'll all get a job.


No, we don't have any money. But there's a lot of us, all working good people.
Good money, hard work, and everything's gonna be okay.
Is it good to make money? At a collection of oranges and peaches?




Now I'm going back to starving. It's better to starve to death.

It says here in the flyer that they pay a good salary, and in the papers, I saw that fruit collectors were needed.









You laugh and say you don't have to. Where's the truth?










Two to three thousand people are going crazy trying to get a job for 800 employees.





I'm just trying to tell you the truth.

I buried two kids and my wife until I realized what was going on.



In the meantime, I was running for a job, not for money, not for pay, but to get a glass of flour and a spoon of pig fat.






What if this guy's telling the truth?
And he's telling the truth-- the way she was to him.





































































Okay. Don't stop.




Connie, maybe it's better on the other side.

























































It's gonna be okay.




Women always get tired.





That's the job.






























- Okay, thank you, Captain.












































Can you tell me where you can find a job here, no matter what?















Don't even try to stay in town tonight, go straight to camp.















There's no work here.

None of these kids had breakfast?




It's good that not all of you are hungry.






























A woman wants to feed us.






















I'm offering you a job.































Then he started shooting and hit that woman over there.










We should call a doctor.












I couldn't take it last night.















Get in the car, kids.


























We've heard rumors that there's a job in a place called Tovaris.


There's enough work already.















You're not looking for a job?



In that case, 60 km from here, on this side of Peaksley, the work for you is untraceable.







He said there was work to be done here. Peaches have to be collected.
So you need a job?























Do you need a job?





Women?

Kids?







Go ahead and get to work right away.












































Okay, mom.









Good evening.


























You can't feed yourself like that. Not to mention the kids...































You think the mother's gonna let the baby starve for some riot outside the gate?




























































They know you got a good face.



It's okay, Tommy.


















And Rosa Sarona? She's gonna have a baby, but he's not gonna have a family.








Okay, mom.

I know it's better to go, but I'll stay.




All right, mister.









I agree, okay, and if you don't, turn around and get out of here.




He was like a lamp to help me see the truth.



- Okay.








We were offered a job.








He left this morning when the salary was reduced.


Didn't he have any bruises on his face this morning?




The job was offered.


















Come on, kids. Sit down, John.

















The camp committee's gonna visit you in the morning, and that's where you're gonna figure it out.




They'll tell you about the kids, the school, the sanitary building... and who's doing them.





























Best dance in the county every Saturday.





Do you have any work to do here?






















- Good morning.



You're a good worker, and that's why I'm gonna tell you.












Everywhere you spit, everybody calls each other red.


I was gonna warn you they're gonna have a fight at camp on Saturday night. The cops will be outside, ready to break in at any moment.





Good evening.














- Go your way!












Okay.























Keep an eye on them, okay?



























Women are always prettier when they're expecting a baby.










































I'd like to see how happy you'll be when you and your father settle down in some nice place.




If you hide the killer, it's not gonna work.
Okay, Tommy.





He was a good man.

People who live like pigs, while good land disappears.

























You'll recognize me in the screams of madmen and in the laughter of children when they're hungry, but they know dinner's ready.















- I'm fine.


There's only 20 days of work there.








Careful, sweetheart. She's gonna be okay.











20 days of work!


That's what I understand-- being a assembler!
Maybe 20 days of work, maybe none.







It's like there's only enemies and no friends around us around the world.






You know, Father, it's easier for a woman to adjust.



Women are as smooth as a stream - small vortexes and waterfalls, but the stream continues to flow.
That's how women look at life.
































































Help! A friend, help!



Thanks, man.






You have to stay with me. All right, sir.





















































































"His Excellency recalls the beginning of his career, the participation of his faithful friends."










"His Excellency is honoured by the greetings of the committee of children and mothers of Tomenia."
"Now he's stopped in front of a woman with a baby."






Very good.






Good morning, Mr. Yakel.
















It's not such a good morning after all.



All right, Mr. Yakel.



She's such a hard worker, and she can't find a job.


























All you can do is bother women and rob defenseless people!






































































You'd better hide.






































What did my friend do?





Anyway, if you or your friends are in some kind of trouble, let me know and I'll help you.

One of my friends.





















Okay, I'm coming up.

















It's the best wood.



















Okay, we're gonna change that policy.
















You should requalify yourself as a woman.
Good business is a beauty salon.
































Too good to be true.














I wonder why women don't grow a mustache. What?






























Okay, then, then.



















The pace of work will be affected by this.
The pace of your work... okay, here's your pace.
Spare the strikes and let them get back to work.













































Things are getting better.





Okay.









I'd better not go.

























Okay, but you'll remember what I said.








Tonight I will not turn to the children of the double cross, but to the children of Israel.













Mother, take the women and children upstairs.























They're coming for you! - You better get up on the roof!







Okay, where are the grenades?










It would be nice to live in a village. Much better than in this old dug-up town.










Okay.

























Commander Schultz, I apologize for my friend and, on behalf of all of us, I wish to say that it is a great honour for us to die for our country.




















"A Jewish hairdresser, reportedly a friend of Schultz, is also wanted to testify."

































You'd better get up on the roof. Quick, both of you.















You stay here, then meet me. - I'll see you on the roof tonight.
- Okay.



















Well, good morning. How's it going?

Commander Schultz, here's your friend.

























Okay, you'll sign? Yes!





















Very good.



Okay. We're gonna give him a shot!





Our dear chief enters the train station, preparing to meet an honorary guest.






















- My friend!







It's a pleasure to meet you, dear Ginkel.


It's okay. It's okay, Mom. Where's my ambassador?









































Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh And my friend Garbitch! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.






















That's a good combination. No Mishura for you.

Big ball tonight. - Big ball?











- Okay.




And now it's a good barbershop.

- Really? You know, when you shave, you want to look at something nice.


And there's a good view through the ceiling.


Really?









"Our dear Chief and his high-ranking guest have taken their seats, and they are anxious to follow this historic event."



























It's really yours.







That's what we're gonna solve tonight.











Excellent. Very good.
Okay.
My dear Adenoid!

I've been looking for you all night. Maybe we can grab a sandwich and go to a quiet place where we can talk.
















Very good. Cream.


























































No one should enter the palace tonight. Okay? Yes, sir!























No, it's better to go to the open place. The border is on the other side.





































- Okay. - Okay. I'm in constant contact with Marshal Hering in Osterlich.

- Okay. - Okay.






























We all want to help each other.

We don't want to hate or despise each other.











The very nature of these inventions calls for the best in man, calls for universal brotherhood and cohesion.
Even now my voice reaches millions of people. Up to millions of desperate men, women and children. Before the victims of a system of torture and imprisonment of innocents.



























We come out of darkness to light. We enter a new world, a better world, where people overcome their hatred, greed, and rudeness.














- Okay, Jim.


































- Okay.










































































































































- You got a better one? - A lot.







You've become a great reporter, but you can't find better conditions.
- We're a team that needs each other.

- Okay, I won't say anything.

























Okay, okay, I get it.


















































- But I just want to be a woman.











And I so want to know what it's like to just lead a respectable married woman's life.













Why not? I feel good with him.
He doesn't think about work with me.

- I'm a woman with him.




And he needs a home and kids.



















Truth be told, you stabbed me without a knife.





Forgetting my job, she's waiting for me outside.










- Okay. - I'm sorry, Hildy!














































- It was pasturous this morning.



































I've never met a woman like that.
You know, I could always have guessed what a woman would say or do at the next moment.






She's the best.

Really, Hildy.



























How touching, really, to live with my mom, and in Albany.




Remember that night you brought the mayor to your room?




- Albany's good for him.




























We'll be in Albany by morning.
























Isn't he cute?

I wasn't a good husband, but I'll always be willing to help.







- Yes. Can make a woman happy.



































































































































Well, okay.




















A doctor from New York, Dr. Egelhoffer.








- We're having the night before the exec.

















































































- That's good.















If the doctor's right, I'm gonna last a long time.











































































Okay.




Okay. Okay.




- Okay.












































So, after losing your job, what did you do?















































Beautiful, isn't she? - Yes.

























- I've been offered a quieter job.




































He told me he was fired from his job after 14 years of service.







And this morning, he left, and I never saw him again until the trial, where I appeared as a witness.




- You better go see your fiancé.

But it won't be long, he's on a date at 7:00 in the morning.











There's no truth in their articles!


































- Do you want to reschedule the execution time from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.?













... at 7:00 a.m. and not a minute earlier.






















- Okay, then read "The Gazette" in the morning.










He's a good man, Hildy.














"And at 7:00 a.m., if there is no miracle, the gallows will help the rebellious soul..."
































The truth is, there was no deal to break her up, but I did that, too.

From now on, I'm a woman, not a car.
I want to have kids, watch, watch.


























Doctor, I'm terribly tired.










































































































Okay, so...






Dr. Egelhoffer, this mountain psychiatrist from New York, examined Williams in the sheriff's office.
















Nice work! What?
































Mrs. Phoebe de Wolf from South Street gave birth to a baby in a patrol car. The baby was delivered by the sheriff's deputies.



They were told to look anywhere. And here's the ending: the baby was named...


























- What can I do for you, darling?



























Are you really in correspondence with Stalin?















He called the mayor and the sheriff small children who fought to match. Yes.































































































- She lives out of town with the kids.



- My kids are studying.





























- Is it hard work?






























Okay, but I could have tried.
























I'm your friend, remember?





Maybe you're a friend, maybe you're not. Don't come any closer.
































































Okay.

















































- Okay.

















- There's a woman here who says...












































































Okay, look what I'm gonna do. I'll give you some good stuff.













- It's good to be alive!
















































Let's hide Williams till morning, and when the room comes out,..












- Stop talking!
A lot of work.





































They sent $100 out of work as bail.

















- I'd rather have them.










- Very good.











- Hildy, please tell me the truth.
- Wait a minute. - Tell you what, my friend...






































Duffy, did he tell Butch to take a cab and drive right away? Okay.






- Is that better?


- Okay. Where's Bruce?

























- It's a good thing we met.










- Especially the finale.































I'm so glad, Mr. Burns, really, really happy!



























































































You're not gonna let a woman stand between us, are you?



- Okay, give it to me, I'll talk to you.
Good evening, madam.












And why do I hire sick people to work?










- Archiving, my friend.








































































Honey, Morning Gazette doesn't interfere with justice or cover for murderers.









































I don't know this woman.











Madame, you're a pathologically lying woman!

















































- Good job, Pete.


























































He's baking like a kid.














It's a good thing that we've been cleared of... the painful debt of execution.


- Pete, get the cuffs off my friends.




















- He's an old friend of mine, we'll make a deal.





















I think you'd better get out of the game.






























- I can finish and leave in the morning.



























































Okay, Duffy.





Oh, what a night...





























Good evening.
He hasn't been home in two years, and all he can say is good evening.
It's night, isn't it?









Scandal, isn't it?









These two gentlemen shouldn't be left alone for long.



- Good evening, Father.
- Good evening, my son.














































































I had to tell the whole truth.




























There's music, Gefsiba, there's laughter, there's struggle, there's work!





















It's all our grandmother's fairy tales, she made them up in the rainy evenings to entertain us.








Good morning, Mr Fuller!
Good morning, Miss Hefsiba!

















If that's what Mr Fuller said, Abigail, it's true!




















- You know, Clifford, he won't be here until tonight.









He really believes in all these tales of hidden treasures and the curse of Moula...
























Beautiful day, isn't it?
































We need to send for a doctor!


























We've heard Dr. Willett watch the deceased for many years.
Dr. Willett testified that the deceased never showed any symptoms of the disease attributed to him by the defense.



































It's a good thing you wore it today.





















It's gonna be expensive, Mr. Pinchen, and it's gonna take a long time.

- Sure, if this job isn't for you...
- No, no, I'll start tomorrow morning!

Dear cousin, the Pinchens don't have to leave the house like that.



- Good morning, Mr. Barton.
- Good morning. - Oh, hello, my child.











































































- Good evening, Hefsiba!









Everyone needs a close friend...


















































- Good evening!



















Isn't that right?




















- Okay! - Good night, Deacon!









People will go from everywhere. - Really?


























Best news ever.
































Good morning, Clifford.

Good morning, sweetheart.




























































Let fate punish him for a crime.









Jeremiah, friend: You're not small, you know what they say!









Good evening, Phineas! How's the honored Judge Pinchen?

















Don't worry, my dear deacon, and leave everything to me.





Good evening, Holgrave.



























But honestly, everyone would be better off if they did, wouldn't they?
He's good as it is!







Good morning, ladies!













He can handle Clifford much better than I could.
























Good morning, Mr Fuller!












When he leaves, you'll feel better, Phoebe, won't you?





























He's my friend, sweet Hefsiba.


Deacon Foster came to you this morning when you weren't awake...







































You'd better kill yourself!











Good morning, Mrs Foster. Is the Deacon home?




















You really are crazy.

















Spare me, Jeffrey, think of my family, my children!














































- Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.
























Gentlemen, you can go in there any Thursday afternoon and meet a lot of good guys you've ever met in your life.
















So, you're too good to have a drink with me, aren't you?









































































- You saved my life last night!





Last night on the train, someone grabbed 10 grand from me and...











- I'm gonna go get the doctor.


- I'll get the doctor in a minute.




The doctor's right in the hallway.













- No, buddy, it's true.

- I'm gonna go get the doctor.

I don't need a doctor.




























































































- Okay.

























I'll send a radio telegram to the Habersville National Bank and ask them to send me 5,000 by tomorrow morning to the Whitney Hotel.




I think we'd better go straight to the hotel and see if the bank sent...





























- I'm much better now, thanks to him.
















I leave you to the Doctor's care.





Thank you, Doctor, but do you know who I am?

- If you're a friend of Larry's...






















Are you staying anywhere, darling?








Nothing's good enough.














She wasn't baptized "darling" or "darling," you know.
Okay!
Okay!









Yes, of course, darling.






































Yeah, or if I, say, dated another woman...

With a woman?



















Couldn't be better, thank you.












- Couldn't be better, thank you.









- Couldn't be better, thank you.













































- I wish you all the best.
































I'm gonna run to Schorhaven and talk to a little woman.
























She was here, it's true.




























































- Okay, but I'll go with you!











They were ordered this morning.
























Yes, dear, but see, the doctor says I have to drink every 15 minutes.














But the doctor advised me to exercise.













- Something wrong, darling?

- Is that better?

You know, honey, if we could just slip away for a few minutes,






































- Yeah, I think it's better that way.





























(OXESTRE IS HIS GOOD BREAST)


Honey.






- Kay, darling.












You seem to be in good shape.






Yes, Mayor, this is my good friend Dr. Ryan.

- Dr. Ryan.



















Do you think this is serious, Doctor?







Doctor, what can we do for you?





- Shouldn't we call another doctor?





It's gonna be okay.




- Yeah, okay.










- Okay!






Look, Doctor, this is my private matter.





You better call the Palace Hotel outside and find out if Duke's here or not?




Doctor, how is he?







That's because you're not used to it, darling.
The doctor said you might have to force yourself.




Feeling better?



















Okay.










- Okay, darling.





Okay.



How can you sit here while your husband, a sick man, does your job?

Okay, okay, I'll make him something to eat.










Kay, darling, you know I want you to forget about the past.















- Very, very good.
- That's good, darling.
Okay.



Kay, darling, you know, I know a wonderful game for two, consisting of gentle words and kisses.
I think I'd better drink my coffee.




Well, that's useful, darling.


I think we'd better get this straight.





























He'll meet you at the post office at 9:30 in the morning.
That's good.





- We'd better get to work.


I need to know the way when I go there tomorrow morning.



























































Doctor, get out of bed and do something.














I'm here, here, darling.


Doctor, I don't see anything funny.







Okay.






- It was fine until I saw you.



You'd better tell me you're still too weak to work.





Wilson! It's good to have you back.

- Okay, it can't be better.

This is my friend Dr. Ryan.












This is Dr. Ryan, Chief.




Not as good as before you left.





There's no place better than home.
You've got a lot of work to do.





















Yeah, very good.


- Hey, Doctor.














Goodbye, friend.












- I have good news for you, Mr. Wilson.

That's very good news.





- Okay, Mr. Wilson.



































It creates character and produces better results.




- Good morning, Doctor.
- Good morning, Mrs. Wilson.




































































I want something expensive.



Mr. Wilson said he wanted to buy something expensive.


I just want to buy something good.











Maybe I should call the manager.
























- Okay.



After a busy day shopping, there's nothing like a good cup of tea...















Don't confuse me, Doctor.
Now the question is how to get the punks to this deserted place so they can admire your work, Duke.















Nice work, Duke.
































































You never took me to town with you, and you didn't buy me expensive clothes.



You were just good, sweet and kind, as far as possible, and you know it.













































































Okay.

































Do you remember we were talking about the water test, Doctor?















- That's good for the leg muscles.
- That's good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.










Okay.



















My friends?
My friends, I...










































































I'd give my best tie just to know the secret.













Okay, I'm gonna go.





































No, it's true.















Not a word of truth.
















It's gonna be easy work.






- My friend.











But it'll bring you a good income, Larry.

















































No, not yet, darling, but I think it'll be soon.

Yes, darling.













Thank you, darling.





One moment, my dear sir.





My friends and I will discuss this proposal.



Well, let me let you know that I have options for four sections adjacent to your land, and all the necessary equipment will be there by tomorrow night.





Okay.





Very good.



Okay.











Good evening, Doctor.
- Good evening, gentlemen.
- Good evening, Doctor.
Nice work, buddy.
















These crooks pretend to be your friends.
And Herbert is no better.




- You're too good for this town.
























You said, "Kay, honey,
"Marriage is the best investment two people can make."





















I guess I'd better get back.












So, from now on, I'm gonna be following you, and, believe me, honey, you're gonna know you're being followed.


















You're gonna meet some pretty chubby lady who thinks you're the most amazing guy in the world, you're gonna get married, and you're gonna have kids, and you're gonna teach them how to ride a bike and play baseball if they're boys.

































You know, a small house with a few kids and a porch.



You better go get some sleep.













Amnesia came first, Doctor?


Come here, Doctor.



















Look again in your crystal ball, my friend.











































Honey.



- Larry, darling.




















































































Yes, darling.










That's awful! - It's from your father's friends.












I know, darling.



- Hey, it's for the best, really.






- Isn't he handsome?


Really? Why don't you ruin my wedding?










- Did he really hit her?

- No, really?







Well, you know, she's a little tough herself, right? Not at all.



Yeah, honey, between you and me, it's awful shit.




























- That's better.









"The congressman kisses her, wishing for a good morning."










Sorry, darling, of course, very much in ours.


















































End of job, end of bank account.






- Looks like we understand each other.






He's a friend of this gentleman.
He will introduce you to the Lords as friends of Junius.

























- Shouldn't we come in from the back entrance?

- Good morning, Edward.







Take Mr. Junioros' friends to the south lounge.




















- Macoley Connor isn't much better.

















































- Really?



Junioros is fine.





By the way, Junioros' friends are here.

- Oh, my God! - Are Junios' friends here?








I'll start from the beginning. Sit down, darling.
You see, they're Junios' friends.








- Since they're his friends...
- You got a job when you divorced, didn't you?





And these friends, by any chance, aren't photographers?























Even if it's true.
















- And aren't Junius' friends?











- Really?




Don't you want to make a good impression?





Kids, get changed.





I know, darling.







They're so excited to see Junius' friends.
- They don't know the truth?



























- Are you friends of my brother Junios?

















- He's doing okay.

- Really, sweetheart?




























My friends call me Mike.























It was a long time ago, in Delute, I was just a kid.















-...other interests than work.





















You're pretty, my dear.


- Isn't that nice?














Junioros sent two friends as a wedding gift.



Junior's friends are my friends.








- How are you, darling?













Dear Dad!

- Isn't that right, Mom?







Dear Dinah.






- Hey, friends and enemies.












- Are you okay?



- But you're gonna pay, Red, aren't you?














I don't think anyone had a better family than me.




























Hobson. Okay.
































Really?





- I'll meet you at the pool. - Okay.














































- Good thing I remembered the house, huh?





























































Starting to realize that I don't have the role of loving husband and friend at all, but...
















































Red, you can be the best woman.



And you won't be a real woman unless you learn to respect human weaknesses.

















































And that's the best thing about you.











Okay, honey?

























Okay, I'll tell them about it.
Maybe I'd rather do that as the nominal head of the family.









- Which, by the way, is true.






I think the best support for an aging man is a daughter.
Good daughter.


A loyal young woman gives a man the illusion of youth.


Because she's as important to him as she is to women.



You have a sharp mind, a beautiful face, a disciplined body. Anything to become a wonderful woman, except the main one who understands the heart.


But it's true.


Nope. But it's better than being a prude or an old maid, even being married.








And then, you sound like a jealous woman.





And you come, you're the host of the evening, Uncle Willie.







































































You can't do that to old Junior's friend.
- I mean, with his old friend.





- I feel good.
































- Well, okay.













Come on, darling.














































Liz thinks you do. But women, of course...









Tracy's not your normal woman. And you told her that I didn't like it.







































The truth about this story can get Kidd out.























































Okay, Miss Goddess.











Maybe I should come over.



- Let's get into this.






The best sight in the world is to see a privileged class enjoying its privileges.









- I don't know. You and him just don't fit together.








































































Has the mind won again, dear Professor?













































Nope. Mike can only become a real writer if he loses his job.

I'm just a good photographer.





Really?















- I'm a friend of the family. I came by to talk.






















































- You don't know women.




















No, a little good.






















Since last night, actually, since this morning.


















It's a lovely morning, isn't it?

Very good.






- Uncle Willie, good morning.






























I'm gonna miss you, darling, all of you.

- Really? Do you like my dress?
















Isn't that funny?










































Good morning.

































Well, anyway, I had a lovely evening.


Really?





- Tracy, honey.

- What can I say, darling?
Don't say anything, especially "darling."


































And, of course, you're a friend of Junioros.































- I doubt that very much, darling.




Why are you asking me, darling?







- What, honey?







All right, come quickly.

Okay. I said he'd come to his senses.





- No, you better say it.











Yeah, "True Love" was a great boat, wasn't it?































Get up, honey, turn around.






Here, he sent you this morning.

Dr. Parsons!











Listen to me." "Dear Tracy, you will remain my friend, "but I have a different sense of morality."






They're my friends, too.


Or else I'm sorry and I'm sending my best wishes. Yours sincerely..."






- So we better say goodbye.

































It was another woman, a widow of Kliko, a harvest of 26.





There are qualities in this woman, the widow of Cliko, that I like.








- You didn't think very well of yourself.








I wish you all the best!






















Okay.
- Maybe it's for the best.






























We saw George, it's okay.









Good morning.



I mean, my ex-fiancé thinks we should stop in time. And I agree with him.






























































I guess a lot of you don't believe that dreams come true. Really?



























Nice piece of wood.


I think it worked out pretty well. Isn't that right, Figaro?


Very good.















































How good it would be if he were a real boy.








Really, that would be good.

That's a good idea, but... that's impossible.


After all, a little bit of good.




















Do you need to learn to choose between good and bad, good and bad?

























And remember, Pinocchio, be a good boy.








- That's good. Sit down, son.




And although good things sometimes don't seem very good, or bad things can be good at a bad time. Or vice versa.

I want to do the right thing. That's good, Pink.










When you get confused, what's good and what's bad.



Always go, dear faithful, don't slip.

Always go, dear faithful, don't slip.




































That's my water baby. Isn't she cute?



































































































One of the best days.
It's so good to be an actor, 'cause you're famous.










































Very well...



























































- Really?









I'll be back in the morning.






























Pinocchio, it's me, your friend Jamie.





























At least it wasn't raining.




Tell the truth.























- No, just the truth.



She's right, tell the truth.





I'll be good. Very good.












He still thinks we're his friends.

That's how low Honest John can fall, isn't it?





















I'll be good.
- You're gonna be good.













That was a good lesson for me.


Nervous breakdown! Doctor, write it down.














Quick, Doctor.







































Okay, Lempic.











Isn't it great here?
























Okay, Lempic.










He's my conscience and he tells me what's good and what's bad.







- Jemini, don't hit him, he's my friend.
Best friend?






















Okay, you're good for us. Sold to salt cops.

















































































Tie it up better.







Okay, I'll just get myself a rock so I don't get thrown on the surface.









































My poor Pinocchio... he was such a good boy.




































































Okay, if there's a lot of smoke, the fish taste better.








That's a good idea.



































































































- No, thank you. You know, I recognized you as soon as you came in. Although I haven't seen you since that night in Cosino at Palm Beach.














I hope you've been given a nice room, 'cause there's a lot of room available right now.








Anyone who wants to go fast has to go alone. Have a nice evening.































- What happened to your friend?




Tell me, is Mrs. Van Hopper your friend or just a friend?





But she's really very kind.


So I took this job.



Yeah, he was a good man.



























Well, he's not gonna get any better.







Really?










We're lucky to have good weather here.


























You should pay attention to Coach. He's pretty damn good. And you can practice it.







Good evening, Mrs. Van Hopper.







You'd better go to it.
















I'd like to be a 36-year-old woman in a black dress with pearls on her neck.




You're clouding my past better than all the lights of Monte Carlo.










- Okay, Maxime.
































- What are you talking about? - It's true.



















I'm not the best match for you.









I've been crying all morning, thinking I'd never see you again.





























But this morning, I got word that my daughter was getting married.



























- No, no, no. Honey, I'm gonna go downstairs and follow your luggage.











Do you really think so? I can't imagine it.




You'd better go, Mrs. Van Hopper.


Goodbye, darling. And good luck!









- Are you cold, darling?











Thank you, okay, sir.











All right, sir.

Good evening, Mrs. Danvers.














Of course, you can't see the sea from here. A good view of the sea opens from the west wing.







Mrs. Denvers, I really hope that we'll be friends... you have to be patient with me.

Okay. I hope I won't disappoint you, madam.






- Good morning.
- Good morning.



Got a lot of work to do while Maxim was away.















Don't worry, darling, I'll be there in time to save you.
Bye, darling!
- Good morning, madam.


I'm really not very hungry.































- Good morning, Mrs. Leslie.





















You shouldn't be afraid of her, darling. And there's nothing I can do about it without your help,






- Very good. Thank you, madam.









































Goodbye, darling. I'm sorry if we were insensitive.






















Don't act like a child.









All right. Let's go downstairs and look at him.



















She drowned in the sea, didn't she?























Really?
Do you really love me?






















He's not dangerous at all. We're giving him some work.





































Good evening, Maxime.












Very good.






How happy our grown children will be when they see how cute you were!


















All right, sir.

It's your concern, darling. Maxim, I wanted to tell you, but...







I'll go upstairs. Don't be a kid, darling!







































It's a good one, isn't it? And we're happy, aren't we?

If you don't think we're unhappy, it's much better if you don't pretend.


























Very good.















He doesn't approve of me at all. Okay.










You've always wanted to see this room, haven't you, madam?


It's a great room, isn't it?







He always gave her expensive gifts all year round.









That's better.




























Okay.









Honey, why don't we make a masquerade like it used to be?



Oh, please, darling.











- Okay, my dear.
Thank you, darling!







- Were you really gonna throw them away?






































Open up, darling.









Do you really think so?



Good evening, Mr. De Winter.























No one will ever be better than her, ever! She was defeated, not by a man, not by a woman, but by the sea!












































Okay, Frank, I'll look for Maxime.




Tonight.







I'll be your friend! Your companion!


But it's too late, darling.







Her shadow has always stood between us, keeping us from each other.
















The woman found in Regicam, the woman in our family tomb, is not Rebecca.
It was the body of some unknown woman, unknown, unwanted.















We can't lose each other right now.






























I scared you then, didn't I?















Of course I do, darling.



Then she started bringing her friends right here.




















"If I had a child, neither you nor anyone else could prove that it wasn't yours.
You'd like to have an heir for your dear Mandel, wouldn't you?"




































If I I.D. her, everyone's gonna remember that other woman buried in the tomb.







Now I know what I was gonna say, I love you, darling. I'll always love you.


















We'd better avoid publicity, but I'm afraid it's impossible.







You know I'm very good to you, Maxim.




No, thank you, Fritz. And I'd rather they didn't get caught in Mr. De Winter's eyes.










- Hello, darling.


You're not gonna freak out, are you?

Okay, honey, I promise.

Don't worry, darling.




I wouldn't want to, honey.



Okay, darling. I don't care about anything but you.


















We want you to tell us if you were on the beach the night she went to sea and didn't come back?
Were you on the beach the night she went to sea and didn't come back?







Did you see Mrs. De Winter get on the boat that night?


Okay, you can go.



Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?






















































Okay.




Honey, please be careful.


Sure, don't worry, honey, I'm gonna be okay.






I think you'd better go before Maxim comes back.
Jealous? Really?








Things are so much better for you, aren't they?













Aren't you gonna pour some good gas into my car?









I got it the night she died. But I was at the party and I wasn't able to read it until the next day.

I'm not going to introduce you to her content right now, but I can assure you that the woman who was going to drown herself the same night wouldn't have written it.


You know, Max, I'm really tired of my job as a car salesman.



I'd like to live somewhere in the country, find a good place to hunt.





I think we should discuss it inside.















- Okay.



Well, Colonel Julian and I are old friends.
Since you know each other, you know he's representing the police.








"Jack, darling!

I'll be in the cottage all night and I'll leave the door open for you.


Well, does that sound like a note from a woman who decided to commit suicide?










And because he's so popular and you've known each other for a long time.







We caught him and Rebecca peeping one night.
































Danny, who was Dr. Rebecca?
Mrs. De Winter used to call Dr. McClane from the village.

I told Dr. Rebecca in London.












See? That's impossible. She knows it as well as I do.










There was a doctor.



Dr. Baker.



Come on, interview Dr. Baker.

To make sure she has a baby.

That's not true!
That's not true!


Max knew it wasn't his baby, and like any old gentleman, he killed her.
I'm afraid we're gonna have to visit this Dr. Baker.
But just so there's no doubt, I think I should go with you. Okay.





Are you sure you don't want me to come with you? No, darling.

I'll be there early in the morning.




Dr. Baker, you may have read about Mr. De Winter in the papers.






I'll tell the doctor myself.




















She was a very beautiful woman.











Tell me, what else could a woman in her class be doing here?




The woman who called herself Mrs. Danvers was very ill.






"I want to know the truth," she said.


She asked for the truth, I told her.









Your wife is an extraordinary woman, Mr. De Winter.










Thank God we found out the truth.

Terrible! Why is a beautiful woman like her?









Let me tell you, blackmail isn't the best way to make money.









Maxim is lucky to have such a friend.





But now I know that when she told me about the baby, she wanted me to kill her.

























It's gonna be 3:00, 4:00 or 5:00 a.m.










Are you okay?














We're gonna raise each other's salary?








- Good morning.
- Good morning, Miss Krakek.


We called Dr. Hegedush.
- This doctor asks a lot.


- Good morning.
- Good morning. - Good morning.



- Must be very expensive.

She said, "No, it's expensive," but she couldn't take her eyes off.




- Good morning. - Good morning.




- Good morning! Good, good!
- Good morning.





Friends, Romans, fellow citizens, to be honest, I had fun tonight.








- It was a nice night, I liked it.

































- Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.

Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.



















-...my dear friend."












Dear friend, 15th Post Office, subscriber box 237."











- Really?



"Don't waste a moment of communication trusting each other..."





















































- Good morning.
- Good morning.
























It's a good thing you came early.




I'm looking for a job.



















With the best customers.





















Good morning, madam.

- Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.






- You'll find a better product.

- I'm looking for a job.






- But I need a job.


































It was a good night last night, wasn't it?











You made a good impression on her.

























- That's the woman's point of view.









Good morning, madam.
Isn't that a beautiful box?





































- Good morning.
- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
















Nothing's better than that!



How much do you spend your life with Mrs. Pirovich, except for the children?
















Look, real friends come after dinner.

- Good morning.



- I forgot about Dr. Hegedush.


- Why do you need a doctor?














I'll call you in the morning, tell you what I'm wearing.










- Good morning.


- Is my tie good for work?






- She's the best girl in the world.
















You see, she thinks I'm the best person in the world.


























Good morning, everyone.







Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.












I'll wear it tonight.






























I'm doing my job.











- Good reason.







Is it true, Pirovich?






-...sitting out of work.









Good letters, right?


Mr. Kralik, should I stay tonight?
I'm just a kid.

- Really?






- Yes. Okay. Tell me if I do something wrong.




Whatever I think of you personally, I think someone who doesn't care about working with you is a fool.









When you say, "Miss Novak, come on, let's unpack the bags,"..you really want to unpack the bags.





































If I give you advice, even good advice, you don't listen.










Could you let me go tonight?





















Do you need to leave tonight, Mr. Kralik?
Okay, I think we can do this without you.






Good morning, madam.









Six men and women who poison anecdotes and discuss movies all day while I spend on gas, rent, light, taxes and their wages!
Good morning." Matuschek and Company."






Isn't that great?

See you tonight, Mommy.










It'll be better to put a stop to it.




No, I won't be home tonight.
Okay.
Yeah, okay, I'll text you right away.




















I think you'll be better off somewhere else, too.








Here's a letter that won't be too much of a job seeker.









"He's been the best employee for the last five years."


"He carries with him our best wishes for success in his future career."









I had a position this morning, I had a future.




My dear Kralik, from all of us, we are all shocked and surprised.


If you have nothing to do tonight, you know where our house is.


















- We used to fight a lot. But you don't want to lose your job right now...


















This is Mr. Pirovich, Mr. Kralik's friend.

Please tell him when he gets here that we've been released from work and that I'll be there.





What you do after work is your business.




He was your best worker.









Two kids.


















- Good evening.



-...is it true? - I'm afraid so.























Good evening. Who?








Good day, Mrs. Matuschek.








Okay.



- Okay.








- Really?




















Really?














But she did write those letters, my friend.









- Okay, okay.














- Good evening, Mr. Kralik.








Looks like your friend's late.

















Apparently, there's a lot we don't know about each other.




















You're gonna ruin my night?









































Doctor, I think it's a nervous breakdown.


- It's more expensive than a nervous breakdown?




Doctor, did I call you a pill dealer?




































Okay.



















- When I get better...







My dear Kralik, I would like to congratulate you warmly from all of us!








That's what good boys get-- diamonds!













I'm a good soldier.






We need an educated, healthy young man from a good family and no bad habits.



Okay.



Friends, I can't tell you everything, I'm bound by an oath.
But if it weren't for me, the store would have been shut down because of the suicide, and you would have lost your job.














































Okay, I'm glad to hear it.




Okay. - Kralik, that's noble.








She's a hard-working girl and a good salesman, and you shut up!







Friends!
Friends!
Friends!














Okay.
Okay. Assault and beating.











In two years at Mr. Matuschek's store, Mr. Vadash has proved to be a provocative, confused and snitch.


- Good morning.
- Good morning.






















Yeah, it all happened this morning.







- Good evening, Miss Novak.
- Good evening.


It's gonna be okay, Mr. Kralik.


Christmas is coming up. We're gonna miss a good worker like you.






















- This is Mr. Kralik from work.

- Is the news good?


I don't want to ruin your evening.



- Good news?
- Very good!











- He thinks we're friends?




"Women fall in love with those."



Your friend doesn't look like a man.















I'll give it to my friend for Christmas.




























- No, I'm not! Okay.

I called the hospital, Mr. Matuschek is better.


- Let's buy him a good gift.

Not bad. But the best gift from us is empty shelves and a lot of money in the cash register.
Let it be the best Christmas Eve ever!






- Okay.







I bought it for my friend.















































- Okay. Not bad, huh?















Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, What good prices!








But you, Kralik, and you, Pirovich, are the best doctors.




This morning, having received the lovely little tree you sent me, I was deeply touched.





















- Good guy.

























































































































































































- "Man..." - "And a woman united like angels."
























Nice friend.
Are you a dear friend?



Tell me, when you came to the cafe that night, did I behave very rudely?



































And two chairs so that two people can sit around and look at each other, not dislodge their neck, trying to look in the mirror behind the counter.
Oh, Michael! That's what you did this morning!




















- He looks like a kid.

You really think he killed Nick? Sure.


- I don't know, but I wish you weren't there that night.






































































































Dr. Evans.
Dr. Charles Evans!




Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and may God help you? - Is he gonna get sentenced?














Yes, sir, it's true.












I have a job, I get $5.



























But I was a kid!




















Calm down, darling.










- Okay, I will.

























- That's a good boy.









































Imagine for a minute that he's telling the truth.




















The day I leave here will be the best day of my life.





































































How's your paper job?
- Great, great, thanks. - Very good.







- Good evening, Mr. Meng.
Good evening.

One of my best clients.
- A bottle of milk, my friend.



























Sure. I wasn't told that I shouldn't bring friends.

























Honey!








- You have a woman here.





You surprise me, Mr. Ward. I told you, you can't bring women.




















Sorry, honey.

I don't care, really.



Forget it, darling.































She smiled at me tonight.










































- but I need to know the truth.
























Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?






I have to tell the truth.




























































































Okay.





















When I came home last night, I saw the man who was spinning around.





































It's true.



As you have noticed, these crimes are similar to each other.

















































Sorry, honey. Thank you.













Okay.





























Well, they wouldn't send a woman, would they?
No, they wouldn't send a woman.
The only person who treated me well was a woman. She died.





























I'm your friend.



They sent you because they knew I would believe a woman.









- Is that true?







Is that true?








I served them every morning.





















Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning!












Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning!








Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - You, of course, Agda, darling.








You came up with a font color-- #e1e1e1-- hire this singing teacher.







Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay!








Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning.














Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Think of a good name for font color - " # e1e1e1e" for me, of course?







Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, but I'm not very good at tango... font color - " #e1e1e1"






















Font color - #e1e1e" - Thank you, Abba, darling.



















- Okay... danelle.











































































Font color - " #e1e1e" - That's better!





- And he makes a good impression... font color - # e1e1e1e


Font color - #e1e1e - Why are you so upset, Agda, darling?















My dear sister, font color - #e1e1e1 - tried to parade the girl Dunell. Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - But it looks like a man, font color - " #e1e1e1" whose son was in America font color - " #e1e1e1e" and heard the Great Caruso.










Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - It's a good one, worth 15 er.






















































































Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Oh, good of you to come, sir...
























- Okay. It's strictly confidential.
































































Font color - " #e1e1e" - Think better about my words, font color - " #e1e1e1" because I don't throw them in the wind.



She sings great, doesn't she? font color - " #e1e1e1"








Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Really?




































Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - "We invite you to come, we invite you to leave." Children... font color - #e1e1e - I'm glad they sent us away.




Font color - " #e1e1e" - "Good morning, Franken Larson... "Font color -" #e1e1e1"


- Kids get together so easily, font color - " #e1e1e1e" and we just stare at each other... font color - " #e1e1e1e" font color - " #e1e1e1e1e" - What do we do to do that?

































































- I answered the ad, and I got a job.






Okay, you and I, font color-- # e1e1e1 to some degree, in the same boat.
























Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Although they're not as good as my guys...









I spent the whole evening thinking about you font color--" # e1e1e1e1" I played all the time.









- I had to, I'm sorry. But I promise font color - " #e1e1e" to tell you the truth if... font color - " #e1e1e1e" - No, don't go under the stairs.

















- Oh, I'm so sorry. Have a good day!
Font color - #e1e1e - Have a good day.




Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - And that's why you put on your best dress?

Font color - #e1e1e" Thank you, mommy, darling.

















- Dear Ake! How beautiful to me is the font color - #e1e1e1e and Inga that we have a man in the family.







- I understand... font color - " #e1e1e1" okay, there are three crowns here.






Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay!

Font color - #e1e1e" Let's see... it tastes really good. Font color - " #e1e1e1" Imagine it's mom's tasty food.




















Font color - " #e1e1e1" - He's a good defender. font color - " #e1e1e1"








- Okay, yes... font color - " #e1e1e1e"




























Font color - #e1e1e" I'd better tell you the truth now!


















- No, I'm not! I have to sing the Psalms font color - #e1e1e1 with little children.




Goodbye, font color - #e1e1e" my dear... colleague.









Font color - " #e1e1e" - Educated guys say, "Good evening"!



















Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Is that very expensive?

















Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Sorry, darling, there's too little here.











- It's beautiful here, isn't it, Ake?
















































































































Tonight - font color - #e1e1e - he played the piano at the jazz club!








- Listen, Ake. I sing font color-- #e1e1e1e in the evenings.
















Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning. Is there a director?
















- Sorry, I have to finish the job...


Font color - " # e1e1e1e" - No, I want a quiet evening! font color - " #e1e1e1"












































































- Ladies and gentlemen: little, darling, font color - " #e1e1e1" "Shanhai Miss Linda Loy... font color - " #e1e1e1e" font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Don't stare at him!
Font color - #e1e1e1" - He's so good! font color - " #e1e1e1"












Font color - " #e1e1e1e1" "In time we will have a cozy nest fon color - " #e1e1e1" with several children, two, and better than three font color - " #e1e1e1" His manners are not so good.










Charming, isn't it? font color - " #e1e1e1"


















- He's gonna be okay. What's up with the party?









Font color - " #e1e1e1" I'm saving money for missionary work, font color - " #e1e1e1e" while you're turning my cute students - font color - " #e1e1e1e" - into black savages!











Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, Director...




















- We certainly didn't understand each other. font color - " #e1e1e1"
On the contrary, you and I understood each other well.
























- I have a plan. Risked... but good!








































































- I welcome you to our holiday, font color - #e1e1e1e and first of all the director and his wife, font color - #e1e1e1e - the whole room, font color - #e1e1e1" Mom, dad, aunt and children... font color - " #e1e1e1e1"





Font color - " #e1e1e1" - We ask for the applause of all numbers, font color - " #e1e1e1" "Dear Moms, Fathers and aunts!






















Font color - #e1e1e - Come here, sweetheart!
- Be a good bird... font color - # e1e1e1e

Font color - #e1e1e - Count the scoundrel for good secrecy! font color - " #e1e1e1"
































































- Is that gonna be okay?







Font color - " #e1e1e1" - They're always together after work.





















- Oh, honey. But you're only 16.













- It's great when a man loves children.

I had to talk to my best student!
Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, don't mind me!
























Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, take them.

























































- He understands children, font color - #e1e1e - you have to learn from him!
























- Really?

- Really. Sing loud and clear!








Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Ladies and gentlemen, I've come back, font color - " #e1e1e1e" to ask a little school bird - font color - " #e1e1e1" - to perform a very popular song, font color - " # e1e1e1e" which I also loved... finally... font color - " #e1e1e1" Inga, my dear, come out. I think the teacher knows the song.






























































































Coffee's good, but you can't make money out of it.














And I tell them, "I can't, pussy, I'm at work."








Are they burning up good rides?












































































Look, Fabrini, these apples are supposed to be delivered to the market tonight.




















































































































I have a wife and a baby. And the other one's coming.




























































































- I'll get a room, find a job.












It's better at home.



Work isn't a wolf?


































I'll be home tomorrow night.













They almost got me out of work.






































































It's not my rule to let guests in at 5:30 in the morning.
At this time, the best of the best are settled.


Yeah, I'm gonna try to get a job in the meantime.






Oh, women, we're in trouble.




She wants to have a baby, and her brother doesn't.











I'm gonna take care of my stuff.

































You need a normal job.













- I'll have a job by then.
































































































































- I'm always nice to your friends.








Okay, I was in town.









And as it happens, he's a good friend of mine.





























































Why don't we have a baby?






Yeah, but your friends married guys who have jobs.


We have a right to a better life.









- It's gonna be okay.









































































- How's the good stuff?


- We take fruit all the way and we know what's good and what's not.
- I hate lemons, good ones, bad ones, one hell.















































There's gonna be a good guy, remember, I didn't hurt you.
































































We know, we know. We love you, man.







And even better, believe me.

































































































There's always a job for him in the garage.





Only you don't appreciate it, darling.





























I'm sorry, but this is about my brother. I had plans tomorrow night.


Tomorrow night, you're at my house.
Okay, I'll come. I'll just leave early.




Excuse me. Waiting for work.









She rarely picked him up in the evenings until you showed up in the garage.







I haven't had the steaks since this morning.














We've got the same road for the old men - to the watchman. And with one hand, you don't have to dream of anything else.





















Three hands are better than two, right?
- Two are better than one.

















Personally, I'm in for it, but you've got a lot on your mind right now. Hospital bills, Paul's out of work.








Okay.













Meet my friends.




- His friends are my friends.








Brilliant........................................... They're more expensive.
























I'm sorry, honey, but this is the first and last eighth anniversary of our alliance.

- Good evening, Mrs. Carlsen.






























































- Good night, Ed. Thank you for a lovely evening.


Good day, friends.




- Have a nice day.






Maybe you should go back to the house.




















A friend to the coffin.

















We've been married for eight years, but Lana is the best in the world.




































































































All right, let's do it your way, I'll do it.




















Is he a good driver? - I'm not gonna say bad things about him. But if the road turns where it is, it's a coincidence.



































- Don't you think it'll be better...










































Of course. But you can postpone it for the morning.
I've got a lot of other things to do in the morning. It's very important.


Seems like I'm a bad companion if I'm pulling you out of work.




Before, because my husband was your friend.















































I didn't mean to kill anyone. But you made me kill him. Your friend.


























In other words, Mrs. Carlsen, when we spoke to you this morning about your husband's death, your statement was a total lie.



And the truth is, you killed your husband under the influence of Mr. Fabrini.




























I want you to tell the truth.
What do you think the truth is?


What do you think he did in the evenings when he was late in the garage?








































So, during the party all night, did you see Mr. Fabrini and Mrs. Carlsen at a private conversation?














- It's true.


- How often did Mr. Fabrini work in the evenings?

- Can you confirm that Mr. Fabrini worked at his office on such evenings?




Was it true that Mr. Fabrini carefully avoided direct contact between you and Mrs. Carlsen until one day, in the company garage, you both met face-to-face?


Is it true that Mrs. Carlsen was so shocked by what she saw that she fainted?


She was shocked to find that the one she loved, for whom and by whose will she killed her own husband belonged to another woman.














Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?


















































You'd be surprised, but I feel sorry for this woman.































I mean, you know, these guys don't have office work to do.



- It's decided to have a baby.




Friends, I'm glad to hear it, but I...



But there's so much work here.












- Okay.






"And although my beloved and mournful friend and partner Bill Cardew,

































Hello, darling.











Okay, let's forget it.



All right, let them come into my office.









What a mess, isn't it?






Yes, darling.
Okay.







Although he's good, and I'm not getting younger, I still don't like him.






Every woman has...































































Let me do this.
































































Henry's at work.















You think I'm crazy too, don't you, darling?








You can't send a woman to meet her dead husband.
























Vicky, tell Peter to have dinner at 6:00 so I can get back to work.



Are you mad that I'm gonna have to spend the night at work?












God, he was my best friend.
































Honey, it won't be hard.





What's it gonna be, I'm a defenseless woman, I'm gonna have to tell him myself?




Okay.





Honey!
It's good to hug you.





- I knew my friend would be here.


- Yes, darling?

- You're even better.

























Because that's what best friends are for.












Why don't you come over for dinner tomorrow?





Sure, how could I not offer my best friend a drink?





- That's good. - You look great.
Really, I'm a little old.


It's so good here.



















- Bill, darling...

- Bill, darling...










Very good.




















My best friend.



Why is there no law in this state protecting women from vultures like you?





- That's not true.










Honey, don't you understand?



Honey, no.























- No, honey.

- Really, Henry?
















































- Okay.
- Yeah, okay.



































My ex-friend said I wouldn't even have a chance if I stayed.


- Come on, darling.
















Henry, darling, where's your robe you wore before we bought you a new one?




- Honey, did you find him?


















We should all go to bed.

My thoughts will sleep with yours, darling.



Come on, darling.
Good night, darlings.



- Really?























































































- Really, darling?















- Good night, darling.

- Good night, darling.
Sleep well.
Sleep well!












- Okay, our wife.














- Will you tell me, darling?




- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Good morning, darling.



Tell me, who let you wear my best suit?
- Best suit?









You're gonna go downtown with him while I'm humping at work?















































- Yeah, I guess that's better.

































I'm trying to make the most important decision of my life, and two men are acting like kids.






























- Can you suggest a better way?









































You're gonna come visit us, aren't you?












































































Really, Henry?





































Go upstairs, get dressed and go to work.







Okay.





























'Cause it's you, darling, I'm not giving you to anyone!





- We're made for each other, aren't we, Vicky?
















Honey, don't say that.





Please, darling.






Hello, darling.






Yes, darling.














Honey, maybe you overdid it.

Vicky, I want you to be the happiest woman in the world.

Don't get me wrong, darling.




How can a woman like me?





And Bill has everything that attracts women.























Fight for the woman you love!











- Don't worry, honey, don't worry.



Honey, this is the beginning of a new life for the two of us.






Dinner at Frank's with the most beautiful woman in the world.













Really?















































- Because we're both good!



















How could the woman we trusted do this to us?
After we gave her the best years of our lives.





You can't understand how a woman could be so cruel to two men she loves and doesn't want to hurt.












I've read about them, about women breaking your heart and laughing right in your face.

And there are two men in love with such a woman.































Any woman wouldn't stand when her husband fell in love with her again.


















If they do something desperate, we better go to bed.
- And call the morgue in the morning.










- Okay, sir.
You better get some rest.





































I said Mr. Cardew was a friend of my husband's.
Anyway, don't worry, I'll take care of it myself.




- Hey, honey.


















Yeah, what were we talking about with every woman who sat with us?




























And this is his friend Mr. Cardew.


Mr. Lownds and his friend were at the party.







- It's a nice house.




















































































- Yes, darling.




Honey!



















Goodbye, darling.


- Better here than on the island?







- Thank you, darling.








- You look beautiful, darling.






Bill, Henry is our best friend.


Yeah, you should thank heaven for a friend like me.
Honey, think of me as a good friend, always ready to comfort your wife while her husband went out looking for adventures.











Do you really think so, darling?
Of course it is, but you know Bill.






Let's roll while we're dancing, okay?




A day we'll remember. At 11: 15 a.m., the Prime Minister delivered a speech to the nation announcing that Britain had entered the war with Germany.


It is forbidden to walk dogs and cats after 10 p.m., and animals are not allowed to be taken to places of refuge during bombings.

It is also remade to prepare warm drinks in advance for young children who will have to wake up at night.
Pay attention to children who may be lost in the city as a result of an evacuation that lasts until midnight.


Tonight! - On the front, sir?




Okay, thanks.




- Okay, sir.

I'll walk. Okay.







































That's a lot of pressure. We're gonna pass on each other.





It's okay.



Maybe it's a better wall.




Better, huh?





























Are you at the theater tonight?



















































You better have it.
























Show the girls, okay? How do you make an apes?



















As you can see, I can't spend the last night without seeing you.

Your friend from the subway. R.S. I'm sure you'll come because I have a charm that has already brought me happiness.




























- Okay. I'll be there in an hour, okay?




























Okay.















I'm not letting you go now. Life is good, just because it's life.



- I am. Do people have to kill each other to taste life?








Okay, if we met in the usual way, we'd just talk about the schools we went to.

















Ladies and gentlemen, the last dance of the evening.








Beautiful night, huh?


- Okay.

We'll always be there to remember tonight.








Really?


















Okay.





Good morning, madam.
Good morning.


I'll remind you that you went to bed at 4:00 in the morning, by the way.







Not if it affects work.













It's a terrible morning for Roy Cronin.























Okay.
But it's better if you, though, wear a dress.























- It's good to be here.































It's gonna be okay, you'll see.
Don't be afraid. It's true, believe me.







First of all, my dear, I am the captain of the Royal Military Unit.





































































Right. Okay.
















- Okay, sir.































- Really. - But in due course, okay?

















Never while he's alive. Okay. Bring her in before you leave.
Okay.






- It's too good, I'm scared.









Saint Matthew? Really?

They have a very good marriage tradition.
That's where strangers come in, and friends come out forever.



So, darling...
























































Tomorrow morning at St Matthew's.


































































Good evening, Myra.




She was supposed to be married this morning.






















You and I are out of work. So we have to look for something.







I came back, but I couldn't find a job. You scared me.

















- That there's no job?







We can't get a job on a show, not anywhere.


















































You know, things are gonna change for the better now. I'm just sure of it.






If she asks, take her here, okay?








Are you better, Miss?

You're better, aren't you?




Better?
































And I want to text him and tell him that we met and liked each other.






















Myra, don't forget I want to be your friend.































Kitty, we still don't have a job, we don't work anywhere.









There's no work. No fiancées.








We're young and we're better alive!



You know... I wish I hadn't been born a woman.



It's the weather now, isn't it?
But it stopped raining, and good!





















































You were looking for friends, weren't you?

I'm the friend you're looking for.






Good strong tea.





What's with the job?















The thing is, Lady Margaret, we're arriving tonight.










Okay.


I really can't go.




How about the best-looking woman in London?
Honey.










It's true, Roy.



Good girl.










He's here, we spent the whole morning together.


It's true. Kitty, this is gonna be great.






















































Okay.




I waited all morning, but I went looking for a dog and I was late.










He wasn't a obedient kid, and he couldn't be held back.





I'm afraid we're having trouble tonight.

Neighbors, though I tried my best, they're gonna come all the way over tonight to see you and your fiancée.






Roy's gonna lose his head by 3:00 in the morning.






It's her job.














































Of course I came to see a young woman.












Honey...












My dear, would you do me a favor?




Okay.



You're a great dancer, my dear.
Very good, really!


















They're good, they're solid, they're good people.













You're bright, you're good.





Okay. You better get her out of here early before she realizes what's really going on here.




























I thought you couldn't be like... a good wife to Roy.










I'm very happy about this wedding, Myra. And I know we're gonna be great friends.

























Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Yeah, it's true. You all understand, but you don't want to believe it.
But it's true!











If I..... leave early in the morning.....and I never see Roy again...


Let's wait till morning.































Why isn't it just till morning?















She left me this morning.












Last night we were together, and she told me she was happy.










I think you'd better know, Roy.











All right, let's go look.





Okay, thanks.





Okay, sweetheart.




Okay, thanks.









































It's true, Roy.

























































Maybe he's in a good mood.




















There are millions of Chinese children living there, as annoying as you, asking questions all the time.































































What's gonna make her go back to the ground is a crying child who needs her attention.
You want to give her a baby?



Since my intentions are good,


























I want to give you clothes, good food, a modern house with heating...






I want two kids.




































































































So you'd better come.
















He's all right, isn't he?





Look, it's a good opportunity to play the teacher who always pretends to know everything.





Good evening, Monsieur Willa.
Good evening, friends.





























I didn't say it was good news...























It's so good for you...










































And finally, I get it, the guests are good, and the houses are better.




And now that I've achieved this, the best thing is privacy.




















And better yet, the maid will bring it.



Good day, Your Highness.






Don't let your children near him under any circumstances.





































Have a good day.




I came to ask you to find me a new job.





It's not safe for your children.










It's not good to leave someone who's sick.
You'd clean his shoes every morning knowing you risked finding your toe?
It's not good to leave someone who's desperate.












Dear Santa Claus,




































In the evenings, I sat under the table and dreamed.






























Yes, that's good.













I'll see you at the church tonight.


See you tonight.


















- Good evening, Santa.
- Good evening!

- Thank you, okay.

- Good evening, madam.
- Good evening, Santa.





Is that all you brought the kids?



















































I apologize, so many children, so many diseases...
























































When I was a kid, you came every year at that time.


I've come to visit Marie Kothillo's children.














Which could be better than a glass of champagne to cheer you up.











Did you meet my old friend Fu Chu?












A good story never lies.















































Good evening, Robert.























































I hope he doesn't give it to the other kids...


























Very good.




The children will show us the way.
Kids, let's go.


























































































The ring was stolen when Willa and the kids marched.















Okay.

























No, no, I'm just worried about the truth.
I tracked Cornuss' route this morning.



















A foreigner couldn't play Cornuss so well!











Like Monsieur Will, all I care about is the truth.





























Maybe a search of this woman's house will help bring the ring back.







































- Release this crazy woman.









- Okay, we're going to the castle.




And yet, this morning, we found all these toys...



























I told the truth.


































































Very good.
























































































I should have listened to you, but the medicine is so expensive...






You like kids...



































- Okay.

- Very good.

































And he took it back the day the kids broke the globe.












Santa Claus is visiting the baby on December 26th.










You were willing to die for what you wanted. Like a child who doesn't deserve to live, and yet you live.







Do Chinese kids have Santa Claus too?



France... and French children...














My friend Tommy Rogers, he'll be here any minute.


























Did you hear that, children?












I want children like these to have the same opportunities I had.
































































- You'd better see your aunt right now.





- It's an irresponsible employee's job.












Tommy's best friend.
Your best friends are the police.
















Now, friends, stand on your back against the wall.


























































Besides, you're a woman.
You're a woman, aren't you?



























Okay.


I could have sworn I shaved in the morning.









Oh, honey.
















Yeah, your work on these reports is good for a punk like Tommy, but it's not gonna be hard for the Hastings to know they've been screwed up.





Yeah, I wish it hadn't happened, that's all.
I wish the boss hadn't caught you here.




















With your best wishes.



Just think, one of the most difficult children in our district has become the great Tommy Rogers.



















Okay, if you want to.




















A woman faints.



A woman's life is in danger and he asks, "What's the difference?"


If Miss Phelps weren't my fiancée, I'd have quit and gone for a good one.


- You mean the cultural woman is beautiful, money and wealth will marry this impostor?






- Okay, how are you?










All right, keep $5.











He has a wife and children.













You're a friend whose presence in my frozen heart























- You think I'm that good?











































































Very good, Mr. Flywell, you have blanche cards.
Okay, I'll take him.



























It's a light red dress, but it's very expensive.



I have to meet Tommy and take him to the gym tonight.


























It's just a woman.
















































We were here until 5:00 a.m. We've been looking at the reports.


































































Giuseppe, the best grape-pressor in all of Italy.





























Okay.
Okay.





Okay, okay, okay.





It's a safe place to keep the kids.








Hey, mister, where are my kids?
- What kids?
- My kids.



Look, I'm not worried about my wife, but I came here with 12 kids and now it's only six.
- What happened to my six kids?

Look, there's only six kids here, and I know I have 12.
12 kids, huh?


- You can't afford 12 kids.

What I know for sure is that I have 12 kids, and now it's only six.
My dear, statistics show that we need at least $5 a week for a baby.


It's economically impossible for you to have 12 children!


We've got 12 kids!


Look, mister, I came here with six kids...
Not six, with 12 kids.


Where are my 18 children?
Mr., if you don't get my kids back, I'm calling the police.










- Not grapes. Six kids!
- You just said you had 12 kids.


How many grapes did your children get?




- My children!



- My children, please!




You come with 12 kids, you go with 12.
Who took my kids?


You owe me 12 kids!








Here's your kids!


- They're not my kids!







Hey, your kids are here.
They're not my kids!




















- Okay.

- Good morning, Mr. Grover.
- Good morning.









- It's gonna be done in the best way possible.







Find your own children.











































































You'd better come with us.






Okay, we'll forget about it this time.






























We can have an evening, just like we did in Hollywood.


- And women.

- And women.

- And women.
And more women.

I have a good idea.
Why don't you and I play tonight?

































Martha, darling, there are many commitments that will bind us forever.





Maybe there'll be a little baby.

Tell me, Wolf dear, will we have a wonderful house?









Friends, I hope you like Tommy Roger's soft symphony.


















You've acquired a powerful friend.




















































- I think it's best to give him this picture.
























































- Okay!
Okay!




- Okay.









Okay.





That wasn't my best picture.













Tommy, whatever you do, it's okay.











I think you'll get a check in the morning, old man.























































































































































Dear death, I came to you.
































Goodbye, friends.


















































































































Ain't there no knights in Pospolitan talk that you're forcing a woman to fight?





































































































































































That land of Ukraine no longer accepts blood, tears of tortured children, fathers, children and great-grandfathers!



































Tell the Getman where the woman is, they're not happy.

















































































































Well, Clap, will you tell the truth?




Tell the truth!




I'm dying, I'm telling the truth.


- I think the clap's telling the truth.











































































































- Okay, monsieur, okay.


- They'll be out by tonight.
















































How can you prove that you're telling the truth?













































The pop told the truth.





























































































































































































































Ah, friend!


















Nice kazak!
Nice kazak!






































































































































































- Good evening, Mr. Keenan.
















It gives you girls the opportunity to make me the best offer in the next 72 hours.

I have a better idea.













Tell me, darling.



If anything, it's good.










- I've already announced the number, darling.










Well, good. Very straightforward.







Chicago's fine.




Come on, darling.



























- But, darling, I can't at all.


















But, darling, Father for Chicago.






- If you think it's better this way, darling.
"With you, darling, out of time..."









All right, Mr. Keenan.


























- You have a wife and two kids.






I guess I shouldn't date you anymore, should I?








Tell me, when are you gonna get new pictures of your kids?


Look, Steve, I don't like you using pictures of my wife and kids.


- But why are you using my kids?
- Why don't you just make a couple of kids?









You'd better change your tactics.





















...the young fell in love at first sight.






































































- Now, darling, let me talk to him.
































I'll deliver your daughter to you tomorrow morning in Amarillo at 8:00, single.



















Better do it... in Amarillo.

Okay, $10 a pound, no matter how much it weighs on delivery.


Okay.






- Exactly. - Okay.














- Okay.

















- Okay.










You'd better fasten your seatbelts...



















































It's my first job.








































You'll find out in the morning anyway.
I made a deal with your father to take you to Amarillo in the morning.















Tell me, Mr Collins, could you do something big and beautiful for your children and wife?

It's time to do something for Clara and the kids.


Sounds like a good offer.













Okay, I'll give you 3,000... 4,000.






You'd better get some sleep.
We'll only be in Amarillo in the morning.













































One of the best...























Mr Collins, under such circumstances, I think it would be better if you slept where I can see you.

























Oh, women.






Beautiful, well-fed woman.



Better sleep on your side.




Two would be better.





All right, whatever you want.






























































































































Bye, darling.









































































But I still have a lot of work to do with the plane.






Look, Pop, I spent all morning fixing your drandulette, and now you want to waste my gas too.

























- Okay.

























They have a job to do.




































































I'm fine here, thank you.




Okay.
Never leave a woman the right to choose.















































You'd better stay here and dry yourself while I check the next tunnel.
































- Okay, eggs.








































Okay.









- You have as good an imagination as I do, Sheriff.







Really, Cook?



Okay, we're gonna take care of this plane so it can't fly.




Now you better get some food for Joan.















I'm not a kid.





You keep the truth from me, but it's not necessary.
























Yeah, better.




































You have a wife and two children.












This is my first wife, the mother of my children.

Do you have kids from your second wife?


You know, you don't look like a man with two wives and four kids.








We shouldn't hold a grudge against each other, or a bad thought.


And at this moment, I suppose we shouldn't hide the truth?
















I don't have a wife or children.











































Joan, my dear!
Honey!

- Don't worry, darling.









Joan, darling. We brought the Justice of the Peace from Las Vegas.







Yes, darling, until your father showed up.






But, darling, a wedding is very fast.


























- Okay.


























- Really?









But, darling. Didn't you hear what he said about my voice?




















If you're really going to fight, keep an eye on the distance and the next steps.


















































- I really do.







There, in the mine, I was wrong, but now it's clear that you two deserve each other.





























































Okay.












No, I think it's better here.

No, I'd rather go back to the old place.















With your two wives and four kids.






And I'm gonna be fine in marriage.


























Do you, Allen Bryce, take this woman to be your lawful wife?





































- Okay, Riley.










And my luggage, okay?





Come on, darling.




































- Come on, darling.
- Okay, honey.
Honey?

















Okay, I'll tell you!











Allen, darling!





























































This morning, Joan married Steve Collins, the pilot who kidnapped her.








Okay, son.













Since the pyramid, this is the most expensive monument a man has built for himself.











- And the truth is... That on this occasion, this Kane attacked you and punched you in the stomach with sleds?





















He was followed by the country's best men, who ran for governor in 1916. The White House was the next step in his political career. But suddenly, a week before the election, a shameful deafening failure.




Is that true?























- That's a good one. - You just have to find the angle of vision.




















































Okay.


























































- I hope it's all for the best.












































He's got to get a good kick out of it.







































Dear Wheeler, provide the poem, I'll secure the war.






























































































He's a close friend of his.

























Gentlemen, you can continue your work.


























































Read the details of what she wrote "The Chronicle" this morning.
Read all about the mystery of the woman who disappeared in Brooklyn.

















- Let them know who's to blame. People will learn the truth quickly, just.











- Okay.







"Cronicle" is a good idea for the paper.



































Good evening.












It's a great party, isn't it?






They go to work and they work.
These are the best people in journalism.











The good news is, he promised not to send any more statues.



























































I was his old friend, and he was acting like a pig.




You don't have a good cigar? The doctor wants me to quit smoking.


































I haven't been to six parties in the evening.















Emily, darling, your only opponent is my Inquirer.
It's better to have a competition of flesh and blood.




























































Two years of college for boys.



























































I'm talking about C.F. Kane, fighting liberals, friend of the worker, next governor of this state.






A worker and slum children can be sure that I will do everything I can.






















































If I owned a newspaper, I'd fight by affordable means without giving cartoons to my wife and kids to see it.





































I'd say it's a good lesson.
























































- All right, go. Thank you.












































































































- Okay.





































It's okay, honey.





Friend!
Friends don't write reviews like that.



- Friend. I don't have friends like that.





























Dr. Corey.




I think the job bored her, and she confused the bubbles.























11 - 30 in the middle of the night.




























And who wants it when you have your own apartment with a good bathtub?



































































































Pretty expensive for a headless woman.























































Turn off the sun, darling.










- Are you ready, darling?


Oh, you can't publish it, darling.










Every woman looking in this mirror sees a 16-year-old girl looking at her.



That's how I feel all night.
Women are really weird creatures, Yvonne.
Yes, Mr. Kendrick, all women.






You like calm, don't you? Really.











Bye, darling.
Have a nice evening.
Thank you, darling.










Goodbye, darling.














When I hear a woman bragging about her modern marriage, I say to myself, "Yeah!"

Oh, don't report me today, okay?





I thought you'd like each other.







Really, Johnny?





















Okay.







Okay, then Miss Jones, if she likes it better.


But I told you, there's no... okay.










Honey, you've done a lot already.















Okay, I'll call you that.








Anyway, they want to see you at the department in the morning. I'll come.





It won't do you any good.

Okay.













































































All right, Johnny.
I'll call you in the morning.















































You'll feel better.








Do you draw pictures of great women?



















How is he better than me?













It's wet, isn't it?




















































It's just a night of coincidence. I see.
























Okay, if you insist.





Oh, that's even better.









Pine fields, dancing fire, faithful dog, bear skin, woman giving you home shoes...












































After all, it's my job. What do you do?




















Okay.






I'm a man and you're a woman.





Okay!



Okay.





Okay.













Okay. Laundry.











Okay, four and a half.












Okay.


Okay, I'll keep the tapes.
As soon as I'm successful, I'll give you back every cent, okay?
Okay.



You know what you have to do tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning?





It doesn't matter, does it?





Two people who have never seen each other before must marry... and promise to love, honor and obey.







































I feel it all day while we're away from each other.


It's true, every word.



































Really?















Okay.



















But if those words are good, I have the right to say them.



























One night we met, and you said, "Hello.










All right, Johnny. I'll give you a divorce any time you want.





Okay, goodbye.





















I've been married to one woman for 22 years, and we have eight children.


It's better this way.






I'm serious, Bart. He's damn good.






Yes, darling.































That's very good news for me.







Yeah, really.


















Oh, I'm sorry, darling.





































In fact, he only reached the best years of his life.










He has no money of his own, and he takes money from a woman!









- Sorry, honey.















Wrong line, darling.






That should be a good incentive for you to continue.












You're in love with her, aren't you?




- And now you're not sure, are you?

















No, darling.


Goodbye, darling.





Much better than where I got it.




- That's a good idea.






















You better start packing.














It's great that a couple of strangers got married, but they need to get to know each other before they get divorced.















Okay, I'll do it for you.






That's better.











Here. Much better.















Crickets sing you a lullaby, and birds wake you... at 6:00 in the morning.

I thought you said we'd be back tonight.




And if you still want to come back tonight, well, you will.





Okay, I'm coming.















- Your best.

































It won't hurt even the baby.




It's great, isn't it?

Oh, buddy, okay.














- It's so good here.


Wait here a minute, okay?
























In short, Johnny. That's better.



You're cute, aren't you?









































There is no woman in the world who has no reason... sometimes to doubt.
A child born dead, a young husband killed by a fallen tree, a flood that devastated the fields... and made you starve for years.


A woman can't do anything if she can't.
It takes a long time to realize it's true.





That's good, we're hungry.








Charlie's the best employee in the state.









Don't worry about it. Johnny's good now.





Start the meal with a good prayer, Johnny.
And finish her up with a good brandy. And then it's gonna be good.



And she's working with women.



























One simple thing is important, Johnny -- some seeds on good soil, rain and sun to grow them, wood for fire, when snow comes, night, like this, of course, a few good neighbors -- all will fill people's hearts with courtesy, loyalty, honesty.































It's great that a couple of strangers got married. But they should really get to know each other before... before breaking it.


















It's a little hot in here, isn't it?


















You know, they're giving each other that light.









































































































I've dedicated the best years of my life to this girl.
She can get whatever she wants in the world! Okay.

Answer the truth, or God knows I'll kill you!













What a woman! Okay.














Therefore, this Sunday morning in the great year, the thousand eight hundred and eighty-seventh, we think about life, as exemplified by our beloved Queen Victoria.

























Constable, take him to the hospital and give this to Dr. Heath.
Maybe we should go down to the station, sir.

Dr. Jekyll.



Dr. Jekyll!
Come on, let's get some air. Go, Doctor, put old Venzivul in a bottomless well.

















My dear, I'm a modern man, but I don't think Harry should show his feelings for you in public, even if you should get married.




Dr. Jekyll, am I allowed in there?


Look, I didn't have the best chance.

Dear Jekyll, we admire your work. And perhaps this case illustrates your research.























Dear Harry, there are rumors...



Is it that bad? John, my friend, I get it, Dr. Heath is right.
















Doctor... can I rely on you?
When the owner of the best London salon chews you, it doesn't hurt.
Dr. Jekyll, sit down.









Yeah, Jekyll, Dr. Heath told me you're continuing your research.
Dr. Heath doesn't like them.


Harry's work affects areas deeper than the brain, even less tangible.



Well, well, Dr. Jekyll, that's my diocese.

The church never rejects the help, Doctor.





Yeah, yeah, you really helped us out, Doctor.







Before that, he was a model family man. Sweet and kind with children who love their wife.

- Oh, my God! - Yes. Okay, Harry, we understand the shock he's had.








Okay. Let's just say that.















Dr. Cortlain, the latest theories are always against medical advice and royal doctors.






Unless, of course, we're bored.



Of course, Dr. Jekyll.





But what... what we're testing for each other,





- We love each other.
























































No, no, it's a good thing you stopped.


My friend went for a cab.










If you're on the street tonight, it's better if you don't come back alone.







- Really?







You'd better take your blouse off.










Doctors............................................
Doctor?





Wounded, Doctor.

Really? Would you like to go to the hospital?







Doctor, how beautiful.



It'll all go away in the morning.











You're my doctor now.





























Then let's just say we were both unreasonable. And by raising the glass next time, we'll drink to each other's health.















Maybe it's for the best, Doctor.





Thank you, Doctor.

Good night. Goodbye, Doctor, goodbye.
Dr. Jekyll, welcome.









It won't cost you more than a week ago. Then no one ever heard of a comet. And those guys know what they're doing.












Dr. Jekyll!
Dr. Jekyll!



What do you want? Doctor, is that you?


Dr. Jekyll. Who? Who is it?
Dr. Jekyll, sir, come in.




No, no, it's okay, Poole.

Old friend, Mr Hyde.

I see, sir. All right, sir.





All right, sir.























It's a good thing I worried about you.











I'm afraid you don't understand, sir, we love each other, we want to be together, and we don't want to wait.




Come on, darling. Dad, I've never disobeyed you.


- Dad, it's true.






















One job.




































Did he say? So it's not my job.





Maybe it's better than champagne.









Sure thing, darling.












We've got all night ahead of us. Sure.










I don't say goodbye, darling.






You just deserve better.

















- Really? - Yes.


















































































A woman should read between the lines.










































My friend Mr Hyde.








My friends are waiting for me.

















































It's fun. - Really?


































































Good morning, sir.











































She should see a doctor.







































In a good mood, sir?
Poole, my friend, I'm getting married very soon.







So it's you, famous Dr. Jekyll.
It was you and your friend who took me home.



















Marsha, my friend, and Freddy, her friend, they say it's all nerves. They say you know that.















Right, you're such a good and kind gentleman.





























Good evening, Doctor.







Dr. Jekyll, my best wishes to the future Mrs. Jekyll.




And let Dr. Jekyll think of his Ivy as he wishes.












We should see a doctor.



You need Dr. Jekyll.
Dr. Henry Jekyll.











You don't know Dr. Jekyll!








Dr. Jekyll wouldn't tell you.



What? Did Dr. Jekyll seem to be in love with you and your cheap dreams?
















Open up! I know the doctor's friends.











Good evening, sir.


Do you know what Dr. Jekyll is using it for?




I'm waiting for you, Dr. Lanon.
Dr. Jekyll sent me this.




As a friend of Jekyll's, I have a right to know.


I don't like you, my friend.





I'm a friend, an old friend.

Where's Dr. Jekyll? Calm down, he's alive.
















































































Beatrice, darling.



















Doctor, the murder weapon.



Doctor, the creepy guy broke into the house.













This is Dr. Jekyll.

I know Dr. Jekyll, sir.













I'm Dr. Jekyll.
Dr. Henry Jekyll.

I'm Dr. Jekyll.
Dr. Henry Jekyll, I'm telling you.



I'm Dr. Henry Jekyll.
I'm Dr. Jekyll, I'm telling you.
I'm telling you, I'm Dr. Jekyll!
Dr. Henry Jekyll!
















































































- Isn't it amazing?






- Isn't he cute?




Isn't he cute?





They're funny, aren't they?































We get paid when the kids come to the circus.






















It's unique, it's the best program in the world.









The best horn in the world! - Hey!
















You're right, darling.



It's true, darling...































No friends at all, one single man.













Dumbo, look, I'm your friend.









That's better.





































































Focus on your work, girls.





It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.


Okay.






























Okay, well, they made him...





































































From the top to the heels, my baby, you're the best in the world, my baby.
No one's worth more than that.





































































































































































































Really, guys?
Really, really.

































Better than a plane.

















Magic feather with you? Okay.






















































































It's hot, isn't it?















They better shut down the company.

























Okay.























If we did that, things would be better.






Okay.











- Okay.




































Okay.




But describing the surrounding area is hard work.


















Okay.





















He's good.

















But talking about sightseeings is a good idea.

I like this job.






























The best Japanese teacher is radio.

But a light accent is even better.



And that's good because it adds color.








































Yeah, that's better.
























































The boss is in a good mood today.








Ah, that's good.






























Much better.




























































Put this woman on the phone.
Is this passenger a woman?




























There's gonna be another job.













Do you really think so?













































Okay, that makes me feel better.








That's good.

I'm going to work tomorrow.






















































This bus is too good.










































I'll do it best to fasten your jacket. Correct your butterfly.

















































- Okay.





If they say, "It's too expensive," say, "Talk to the manager."






If I want to be a good waiter, I have to remember that.








































Good evening, Elderman.











Good evening, guys.






The soup is very good.
I don't care how good he is!










All right, get her some soup.












- Okay.

















But Moses is my friend, I'll take half.


Meet my best man, Mr. Bennyster.











- Okay, darling.



















- Okay, then I'll find another partner!





















































Okay, Chuck, I'm gonna work hard... but I don't intend to be a refueler for the rest of my life.



- Put them away. Let's get to work.
- Okay.




- Does that mean it's more expensive with ethylene?
























Okay.

























































"And since I can't call my friends snitchers or crooks...





























Meet me tomorrow at 8:00 a.m.

























































































- Oin sip, okay.


- This morning.






She'd be better off with a few eggs and a glass of juice.


I'm a doctor.




























































If it's okay... I suggest we stay here for the night and leave early in the morning.



What do you think, Doctor?



It's a good thing we got food.































You better get inside before you get wet.































- Oh, no, that's very good.

















- Okay.


- Okay.





















Okay, I'll be up soon.























































- Doctor, do you like to dance?

- Okay. - But I can't.
















- Doctor, be careful.







- Okay!
















I was too young. Just a kid.











































- Okay.


It's okay.
































- All right, come here!


All right, all right, let's go!






































- Okay.
















- Okay.





































Okay, ham and eggs.

























- Okay, wait a minute.














- All right, let's go, Ferd.











































































It's best to get back to bed.






Camille, the doctor's right. We'd better get some sleep.
















- Okay.
Oh, good!



















Did I fall asleep or did I wake up this morning?















Okay, the room is full of roulette tables!








- Okay.














- Okay.




























Okay.


- Apparently you're very busy, Doctor.

























Okay, they're... kind and clear... like two water bodies with water.






























































Is the doctor still there, or isn't it him?






I don't feel good.














































Doctor, I think we'd better split up.


Me and the doctor are gonna take a look at the basement and the garden.





- That's a good idea.













- Okay.











































































Okay.



















I left the doctor alone.

























You're a good guy.






















































I didn't find any detectives, but we should go.









Doctor, when I can turn to you for protection...

































It's true!







































































All right, let go of your hands.























































Wow, did you hear what the doctor said?






























- Come on, darling.






- Oh, good.




















Very good, very good. $23.
















































What kind of business are we doing tonight?

Lots of good girls.


- Maybe it's better to wait for everyone to go home.













Is it possible to understand with reason that all my friends are dead? But my ears still hear their voices.






























I've never met a man whose conversation would be better than food.





















You're so good.

I guess it's stupid to think that a kid might fall in love, but I fell in love, and I was the only one who didn't know the strength of my feelings.
















Good evening, Mr. Morgan.




Let's get to work.










We should have dinner, okay, woman?











A good worker costs good money.

























It's not more important than good manners.
































But if manners keep us from telling the truth, then we don't need them.














Anyone who wasn't a friend became an enemy.

Hugh, is there a meeting on the hills tonight?



It's not for women.
It's for this woman today. For my soul's sake.


































Did you hear what the doctor said?






And if you believe me, you're gonna go, no matter what the doctors say.








- Okay.












Now you better get back to the house or you'll catch a cold to death.

Yeah, later when you're done with the doctors.

- Okay.
Squire Treloni, Dr. Livsey and the others asked me to write the whole treasure island story.
















Well, last time you found a lot to say, it's gonna be easier among your friends.











Alliances are the work of the devil.








Okay.


And, really, sheep.





Very good.












































Back to work to erase the memory of inaction and deprivation.
That morning, people were happy to climb the mountain.


But not all of them, because there were now too many willing to work, and many realized that there would be no more work for them in their own valley.



























Hugh, my boy, if you leave me, I'll regret having children.

Of course, for good, my boy.











My children, you will have beautiful wires worthy of the Morgans.
















Good morning, Mr. Griffith.














Okay?

Okay?









Good guy.










Prayer is another name for good, pure, honest thinking.














Now you have to pay the price of women like you.


































Good morning, Morgan.
- Good morning, Mr. Ivans.






























Good Welsh blood and all.



































It's better this way.




When I went to this job, I knew what I was doing.




Our kids are gonna grow up in clothes with someone else's shoulder, and we're gonna thank God for being a parent in a house full of small things?
Nope. I can take this life for my job, but I'd rather put my hands on myself than see the gray hair touch your hair 20 years ahead of schedule.

















That's the addition, woman.













All right, Mr. Griffith, what else do you have?






Tomorrow night we'll continue with decimals.



















































Good evening, Mrs. Morgan.






Woman, go get some men's tea.




































Good morning, Mr....



















All right, well, get him in position.
Look, to be a good boxer, you have to have a good right hand.



























Okay.













I woke the kid up.





To a school in Cardiff, then to university, become a lawyer or a doctor?
Dr. Hugh Morgan.

Really. Nice horse and black suit and a shirt with a flipped collar.
My baby's gonna be good. Here's a glass of smell for all your knowledge.









Every day I make his shoes and clothes, and in the morning they stay where they are.








Why don't you try a respectable job?



I want what's best.
If he remains a good man like you and his brothers, I'll be happy.


Then there was good money and fair pay for everything.






















If you're making clothes tonight, let it be my clothes in the morning.



- Okay.
Okay, I'll get my bed.

















It happened to Yanto and Davy, the best workers' mines, but too expensive to compete with poorer and desperate workers.




He reinforces my soul, directs me into the paths of righteousness for the sake of his name.


































Moldwin Hughes became a doctor.





























































And the kids, too.









Tonight, after the Deacon service, Anharad reports.































































We'll live in each other's memory.
















Women! Who's got relatives here?































- Okay, Professor.


Tell Dr. Marzditz that I named her after him, Columbrin Marzizizia.












Goodbye, Magsie, my friend.
































Why is the dirty job on me?



























































Women are bothering you, aren't they?

























































- It's better than Charlie.






We'd better get back upstairs.














All the women in our family are like that.















Nice! Okay, I know you, or I wouldn't be playing with you.















It's gonna be so much better.














Good thing it wasn't for money, or you'd be broke.













































- Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's worse.












Shouldn't we go to bed?

It's a good thing you haven't been there in two years.




















































Okay, thanks.






















- What? A girl should have good teeth, it'll cost less.




























You better go to bed, Hopsie.



Good morning, Mr. Margotroy.








- Good morning, sir.























































- Yes, darling?

Good morning.











- And that wouldn't be true.
































I hope you're okay and your friend hasn't drowned?
























































Children have lost respect for their parents.








Well, you finally gave me some good cards.



















































- My dear boy...















Dear sir, it's a drop in the sea.






















It would be better not to tell her anything about the whole story.










You didn't think I could rip off my daughter's friend, did you?









Really?












It's like people walking in the woods behind each other.












They say the deck under the moon is a woman's job.





- Shouldn't you ask a doctor?





- Passenger's a passenger, my friend.



















- Good morning.
- Good morning, Harry.






















Good morning.















If you didn't lose yesterday, Mr. Pike, you'd better not see it.

True, there's still the possibility that they're playing a higher bet.






- Good morning.
- Good morning, darling.





The best of them aren't as good as you think, and the worst aren't as bad.



- Like all women.






- Yes, darling?



- Good morning.

- Just coffee. Okay.





































- I told you, don't mess with work and fun.


















- My dear Harry, wow!


















- But in general, my darling, it's a dream.


































































































- Yes, sir? Good morning, sir.









- Good evening.


- Come on, darling.




- Good evening, Burrows. Sir Alfred.





- Good evening.




































I said, "Why don't I get on a tram?"










































































































I remember a night in Bombay.



I remember one night in Egypt.
I was at a party with a group of friends after the hunt...



















































Don't get upset, even in the best families, it happens.
































































You see, on the boat, we were really drawn to each other. That's where I thought he was tall, handsome.

















- Okay, m'lady.






















































- Looks like it. Women change their names a lot.














Cozy, isn't it?







Nothing, darling.









But it doesn't matter at all, darling.




- Well, it's all forgotten, isn't it?





















It was such a small thing, darling.


- That's good.









Yes, darling?





















Vernon was Herman's friend.
Oh, my God, man.


- What, honey?



































Hello, darling.






































































- But so am I, darling. Me too.

Yes, darling?





Effy, darling, let it go!
























Sometimes it's hard to figure out what's best.























Miss Vanderley has an appointment with Fersby tonight.




I just need him to come to the hotel tonight, and then follow him when he leads us to your sister.











He already has a wife and three children in England.




This morning, when I saw him, he was wearing a gray suit and a gray hat.




Okay, Miss Vanderly.































Listen, darling.







Good girl.











































Miles had his flaws, like many of us, but there was a lot of good in him.














- I don't understand these women.














It's our job.



























































Honey.









You don't have to come here today, darling.




Okay. How did you get the widow out so quickly?

















You're just a detective, honey, but she didn't kill him.

Really?












Okay, I'll be right there.














You paid more than if you were telling the truth, and enough for us to accept it.








We risk every day of our work.

Yes. He's insured for $10,000, no kids and his wife didn't like him.














































- Nope. That's good.







You've got yourself a good friend.

































I'll be back with the good news as soon as I can.





You're priceless, darling.
Get in touch with my lawyer, okay?






Okay, go ahead, then.

Come on, darling, let him come in?







































No, I don't think that's the best thing to do.























Okay.


- Turn right and drive up, chauffeur. - Okay.

Any good news?










I didn't have a very good life.




Okay.
I saw Joel Cairoo tonight.

















Haven't you tried offering me some honesty and truth?




You're gonna have to tell me what you're talking about, 'cause you're not gonna ask me if you're hiding here, hoping everything's gonna be okay.














But, nevertheless, it's true.
















He's been following me all night.














It's probably true.

I think I'm gonna have money on my hands, say, tomorrow morning at 10:30.































































Okay, Spade, we're leaving.

But think about it better.












That's not true!




















You and I are not gonna step forward unless we stop interrupting each other.






Try telling the truth.

The truth?






Okay, girls and boys, we got this!




































































But it didn't make me feel any better.











Was there any part of the truth in the story?






I don't know what's true and what's not true anymore.



































Good morning.
Good morning.


I'm sorry to speak so harshly, but it's true.















History and, really, a little weird.






That's her third call this morning.








Thank you, darling.
Honey!









- Did you see Joel this morning?


Because, my dear, I need to keep in touch with everyone who's involved in a case that I can't figure out.

























Do it better when you get back.










Okay.









- No, Sam, honey.


You better hurry home and think about what you're gonna say to the police.












The faster the better.











That's even better.







Okay.






















Okay.
























All right, sir. Where is she?











All right, sir. I have to say, you have a very violent temper.

You have until 5:00 P.M.




My version may be excellent, or inappropriate, but my mother raised children in the wrong spirit to share their ideas with the D.A.'s office in front of witnesses and a stenographer.









- Good worker.































All right, sir, let's go.


I'm saying this because I know that a man of your rank and profession should know a lot of amazing stories over the years.


- Very good.












All right, sir. What do you think? - I don't know.













Okay, sir, in order to preserve the falcon, at least for the duration of his history, Carilaos again covered the bird with emal.














Okay, sir, they got her, but she didn't get me, but I hope I get her.






















































Now you know as much as I do, darling.













Okay, Sam.




















Okay, I'm gonna go!








Okay.



You're a real friend, sister!








Okay, then 26, and the faster the better.







What's the good news?








Okay, darling.
You'd better get something to eat and get some sleep.





















































That's our best bet.

But, do you see, my dear man, that if I ever imagined it for a moment, it's ridiculous.









A little better, darling?
A little better.












You better tell him that killing me before you get the falcon isn't part of your plan.







Okay.

Maybe it's not as good as the first, but better than nothing at all.





































It'll be better for all of us if we wait for this time together until the operation is complete.











And we assumed that if we put him away like this, we'd make Miss O'Shaughnessy stop and think that it would be better to share with us everything she knows about the falcon.



I talked to him every night, but I couldn't help it.






Cairo, as you may have understood, contacted me after returning from the police last night or this morning.




































Would you put the kettle on, please, darling?


One moment, darling.
Wouldn't you rather leave the envelope here?













I really do.




















- What about the coffee, my dear?





Hello, darling.






Good girl.


































What do you suggest? Are we staying here calling each other dirty words, or are we going to Istanbul?
















You're a man with good thinking and a lot of connections.


All right, sir. I prefer short goodbyes.























Okay.






























At first, I didn't think about it. Really.








Yes, darling.



Okay, let's check our feelings, I think you're gonna be gone for about 20 years, and then you're gonna come back to me.
I hope they don't hang you, darling, for that cute neck.

- Yes, darling. I'll send you to jail.

If you're a good girl, you'll get 20 years.





I really thought you were being wild and unpredictable.







































It's a reputation I need for more successful businesses, high-paid jobs, and easy proximity to enemies. Although, I don't have the money from it anymore, but there's the notion of honor.





Okay!






















































He played with a corkscrew this morning.

He reads a fairy tale to a child.






















Hello, darling!
























A beautiful woman, a cocktail, seven winners in a day.

















Very touching, darling, but I wish you wouldn't drive so fast.
















Honey, if you went to the dentist when you should, he wouldn't have to chase you on a motorcycle.








- Best detective job in 50 years.
















When you drive 80 miles an hour on this job, I'm sure you don't even feel it.








I'll make a copy for the kids.





































Let's get to work before I start handing out suspensions!



What's good for you?



























It's a good thing you're here, Lieutenant.
The D.A. thinks you'd better be here.

























- Of course I have good connections.































Get out of here and kill each other!



- We're old friends.




Interesting, isn't it?











Honey, sit tight.

- Honey, don't ask questions.



The reference to father's offences may undermine... the child's respect for his parents.
Maybe you're right, darling.



Thanks, man.
Mommy, he's a beautiful kid.




















Drunk, darling?












- Really?














- But it's better than Goldez's fate.








- Good evening, Major.



Not so good, Nora.



I'd feel ignorant if I left you to miss me all night.

















Well, that was a good idea.



They wear tights this season, darling.





































Honey, of course not.


























Best offer ever!















You know, I get soft when it comes to women.





















Honey, this is Spider Webb.




Spider's friends are my friends.









Enjoying wrestling, darling?


























































Well, it's not expensive at all for everything I've done.


















- Molly, darling!

















I want to search this office tonight.


































- Doctor, hurry up!



Have a nice evening.



















You may not, but your friend will.






















- Good job.

















Paul's telling the truth.





















- They clapped each other hard.
















Clark is a good athlete.





Okay, let's just say that.







I'm sorry he's your friend, but I'm taking him.








Good evening, Nick.





































































This could help the work of the commission.
- What job?




He and Whitey had an argument here tonight.







Okay, you can go.






















































Oh, what a good dog you have.
























Even it's better than sitting at home alone.




Really?


















It's true, Captain.













































































































Okay, wait.


Hey, Nicky, honey!









Okay.

Last night I was in the register...


































Would you like some oysters, darling? Or a plate of salad?

Thank you, darling.















Really?








He was fighting with someone in the corner... the sports arena last night.




I thought it'd be better... to check it out without the police.









It's about mutual friends.






I use this as an excuse to run away from home in the evening.
I don't think you liked this fight last night.











Why would Whitey Barrow take you to a private place to talk about mutual friends?















"A time of murder" with greetings from Dr. Fang, your dentist.
Friends, do you have bad teeth?









But it's evening, and I have my own eye on Barrow.


Yeah, it's always such trouble, isn't it?


Moms, your kids knocked each other's teeth out?




I'm gonna bet six against two that there's a woman involved.


















We have some work to do.













































I'm telling you the truth.








Good evening, Mr. Charles.



Good evening, Mr. Charles.
If you found oil, don't forget old friends.









Yeah, it's Levsha Rogan's baby's birthday.
























But Sibas is very good.






- You're Nick's friend.
There's nothing too good for Nick's friends.


































- Really? That's not what the gatekeeper said.



















































































Whitey forced Stevens' woman to pay for it.



It's plausible, you found a compelling motive for her, but we also have good motives for Stevens, Macy, Rainbow Benny and...






































































































































There's no time to eat with this job.

















Mr. Fenster, you're in time to hear your client say why he visited Rainbow Benny last night.










































Mommy, let me give you that present I gave you tonight.
- I want to give it to another woman.








































It's true.































- Is that true?




















Okay.




- He saw him last night.














Mr. Fenster, where were you last night at 10:00?












He moved in yesterday at 7:00 p.m.




















To protect yourself and your bastard colleagues, you approached him and killed him, accusing your friend Paul Clarke.






















Major, last night you said you'd already been to Benny's.






It wasn't until after 7:00 last night.

Rainbow Benny moved from apartment 32A to apartment 25C... yesterday at 7:00 p.m. The gatekeeper told me that.



























Really?






You're the bravest woman in the world.








Capital and labor destroy each other.


















































It's a great way to bless a man at a job worth a million dollars.





It's true. And not with paintings like "Goodbye, Sarong"...






No more work.



















I sold newspapers when I was 20. Then I worked in a shoe store and forced myself to attend law school in the evenings.





















































- We'd better get him a million.




















You don't remember what day it is, do you, darling?











Good morning, sir.
Good morning, Burrows.














I once worked for a gentleman who, like you, dressed up to go out with two friends for fun.













- Very good, sir.




Do you think I'm a kid or what?














































Stolen by the vagrant, the poor and the cop...



- He left Hollywood at 4:00 in the morning.

- Can I get you another drink, Doctor?
- Bring me a meal of soda. - And don't call me "Doctor."


- You say you don't need food soda anymore, Doctor?
- Don't call me "Doctor"!


































Well, anyway, I think I'd better go to school now.
























That's it, Doctor.













- Don't be so selfish, darling.


Even as a little girl, you were very nasty, darling. While I'm at it, if you remember...




- Yes, dear, but no one ever asked you.

Now that there's no more trouble for you today, let's do our best to bring back our good sense of humor and to remember our upbringing.









- You think, darling, Joseph would be against it if we gave him some clothes he needed right now?











It's a woman's job.
Men have to work and women have to cry.






































- Good morning.
- Good morning.



















No job.








































You're not trying to kill me, are you?

















I just wanted to say that I have a friend who's out of town right now, and you can stay with him for a couple of weeks. Maybe if you take a break, things will work out a little for you.




- This guy's really out of town right now.














This friend of mine... this guy I said he wasn't in town...



































You better drop me off at the next corner and get that wagon back where you stole it.


















































The film creates the best educational environment the world has ever known.























Good morning, sir. - I'm so sorry.
- Good morning, sir.



















- Okay, but you can't drive your car without a license.

































- Pretty, isn't it?


























- Really?










I found a friend who stole a car to drive me home.









Don't be a kid.





It's gonna be a nice ending, and we're gonna finish what we started this morning.



















































Do you have any freight trains this afternoon, or this evening?



















Have a good day.






































You better tell the butler to close the window.






















































I like being with you, and that makes me feel good.
You can take a bunch of girls and make them sleep in the shit all night, just don't tell them they'll bring their breakfast the next morning. They can't stop thinking about it if they're not lying on the ground.



























































































Aren't you better?





























I'm gonna find out what it's like to live with problems like that. No friends, no money, no checkbook, no name.





- Good morning, Joseph.

- He knows everything. - Good morning.

- Good morning. He did everything he wanted, except he was gonna do a little tour.









I'm gonna go out tonight and give them some money, and it's gonna be over.






Well, what do you want us to be together a little longer? 'Cause we're kind of used to each other.





















- Okay.


- Okay.

- Okay.













I think it's better than nothing.








- They're lovely, aren't they?























































Why did you send him to this job?












I'd like you to come with us, my dear.










































































































Good news.











Who let you quit your job and read the paper?












Get back to work!




















































































He'd fly out of here every night, but he'd come back every morning.

















There was a great picture of my friend once.













































































It's not much, but it's better than nothing in this stupid human path.






You'll be back to work on Monday,




























Doesn't Jay look wonderful?









































He'll be there this afternoon. He'll be back tomorrow night.






Okay, fine.























Are you a friend of Mr. Garvey's? - Garvey? - Yeah.
I danced with Mr. Garvey yesterday, and he promised to introduce me to his friend.




















Last night, I walked the deck with a gentleman. When we got to the ground, there was a commotion, the passengers started running out of their cabins.








Then back to work, back to the store.


































- Okay. Okay.















This is the best hotel room and the best hotel in town.

You can't find the best view in the whole country!











But the best part is, of course, Casino Madrileno.
Really, I've never been there myself.













- Nice, isn't it?
























Okay.













There's a good club called Midi. Midi"?










If I love you, I love you so much, otherwise, my friend, there's no way.



















I showed you the city. Right now, we're at the best nightclub.

































I've seen hundreds of women here and they didn't bother me.










All right, Monte. Let's go.





- What time do I call tomorrow night?















She lives in the most expensive room.
She's got a closet full of luxurious outfits, very expensive.




- Good evening.














Good evening, Flores.















It's a good thing I didn't have to send for you.









She loses thousands every night.









- I just wanted to make the best deal. - I already did.












But a good player always feels a roulette.

















































That's enough to lose in one night.































- "She loses thousands every night"? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Boris, please.





Okay, fine.





Your reputation leaves much to be desired. It's all rumors.




























- When you left, it fell out five times. - Really?





















If you're with a woman, you can bet 35 to one that she's blonde.
















Yeah, it's true.

























My friend,


My friend.
































































You're a proud woman, aren't you? Yes.










That would be a good lesson for him, wouldn't it?








Come to the casino tonight, then we'll have a chat.




- I'll meet you there at 10:00, okay?
- Okay.







I've been driving around all day and singing fun, so buy my caramel, my friends.

























- Good evening, señorita.




- You call it expensive?














I think it's good.








I hate to praise myself, but I'm a good businessman.






























I think we should go.






And champagne is so good.





- It's so warm here, isn't it? - Hmm.















































































Is this liar telling the truth?




Okay, come on.
































































































The last woman who broke my glasses was practically beheaded.







































When you came in, you only looked at each other.



Besides, it was half past six in the morning.


















J, darling.



- What, honey?









- Really? - Never.

- Jay, honey.





I said I'd sign it if my vacation was good but I never dreamed of it.








Good morning.

































We'd better get back to New York and get married as soon as possible.








- What do you think my friends are gonna say?











Okay.









All right, give it to me.







I think you should go now.












































































My dear, how can I play if I don't have the money?
























































Why would I wiggle my hips every night... and piss in front of the guests if you could make a living like that?
























Honey, please.







Okay, but I still don't like it.


























































This film was made to raise children's hearts and minds.













































































Wasn't my son's life destroyed by you, Red Child?




Really?





















Maybe it's better if you go again.







































Very well, let the noble student go to the Fire Mountain first.

All right, let's go!









Okay, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go!

It's a good decision.


Do you think I'm good today?






Go ahead and I'll follow you, okay?




















Hey, that's my woman!











Well, since we're old friends, I won't fight you.

Baby, that monk with a pig's face is my friend.






























You love another woman.
















The golden king of dragons asked me to have a drink with him tonight.




You should drink less tonight.






Maybe I should go to the Palm Leaf Cave.


Do you still want to go back to that shameless woman?











Woman, look who's in front of you.












The old boar is really the best.
The old boar is really the best.







































Okay!








Honey, honey.



Okay, okay!











As you know, our friends just got married.













Monsieur Lucien loves a quiet and peaceful life with his wife and children.



My wife went to the hospital this morning, I'm waiting for a phone call.












Very good.









- Good idea for a scientist.








Now, dear friends, I invite you to toast to the success of our venture and to the happiness of our newlyweds.














Do you remember Françoise, our wonderful evenings in the lab, our months of work?



And if it's love, it's even better.







- Really?

And we're gonna be so good together, aren't we?






















- Good sign for our flight.










Dear friends, I hate the ceremony.











Friends, as you know, we leave tomorrow morning.



































- How's the baby?


- It's gonna be okay.
See, he says it's gonna be okay, and he's finished polytechnic.
He's already got eight kids, he gets them like telegrams, but I'm... I'm sick.
This day is gonna kill me. We're gonna have a party, we're gonna set up a strottostat, we're gonna set up some equipment, we're gonna plant a tree, and I'm about to have a baby.



























Really, Françoise... it's over now.






























But, Françoise, darling, I'm gonna be scared.








Dear Monier!

















But I'm doing this for you, so you explain it to her tomorrow morning so she can understand.






































































Tell me, Antoine, what do you think of our friend Lucien?
- Only good, Mr. Director. - Absolutely.







Isn't it very cozy here?































- Really?
















































































Dear listeners, it's been eight days since brave aeronausts made themselves known, and given their silence, as bitterly as it may be, there seems to be no hope.





















No, really, why is that?




























The elevator would have been better.

























Okay.























































































But I know it's true.























Is it true that these are the two researchers who disappeared 25 years ago?

Is it true that Françoise Monier and Lucien Marshan, who disappeared 25 years ago on a flight to the stratosphere, are now back?






































































- But is it true, Robert, is it possible?
- Impossible, but it's true.

































You know what upsets me, darling?












You're a hero now, darling.




























My job.


I know, I know. Turns out I let you both down, you and the baby.







Isn't that right, Andre?
Yeah, it's my job now.


Andre was always a good son.
- Really, baby?



It's true, you could try working together.




If you were to judge, it's completely out of the question... 25 years ago I, a poor woman, have been pissed off...





You're lucky you haven't taken your seat yet, and there's seven more kids in the house.








































- Okay, okay, we get it.











One of my friends was there when he took off!










I love you anyway, but it's true.



He said, "A woman is a sensitive, tender, charming creature... who always asks for money."


- My friend Lucien.






My friend Lucien.

Is it true, monsieur, that you have 25 more years now?











































- Okay.


Okay.































































And if that's the case, I'd rather arrange family trips or Sunday tours in the countryside.








I want the staff to be made up of women, and only beautiful ones!
Antoine, my friend, I thought... if it wasn't too loud.







Okay?
- Okay?
- Okay.













































































Okay, I'll fly.



















- Really?






















































Isn't she adorable?





Suitcases are always a problem for a woman.





















- And it's for the best.










- Good for you.

































































































- Very good.




















You see, my friend, I flew for a sense of danger, an adventure.


- Really?

- Good idea.



















- Very good.






- Okay, come on.





She had a terrible scandal this morning when she saw her own green face in the mirror.









But know that here I want to be an ordinary woman like everyone else.











- Really?




















You're not feeling better?


If you want, we can go to the table so we don't have to talk to each other.





















You should see me in my best years.

















- Better and better.













The first night I told you this cruise was gonna be deadly boring.










- Okay, okay.





















It's a good thing we have TV.


































What you're not going to do to entertain a woman!






























































Okay, I closed the chains.














You know that this evening we started our journey back to Earth.



- You want the truth?












The truth is, our course has changed, and we're falling on Venus.

































You're leaving without your friends?





- There's women!











































We have doctors, scientists, labs, everything we need.







- It's your job, isn't it?













- They really made a good life for themselves.



Isn't that right, Uncle?




- Yeah, our world is bad, it's true.
My poor friends, I understand exactly why you left.


Tomorrow we'll find you a good place to live.







To escape from something, my dear venearian.





You can't imagine, young man, what ingratitude means to a woman!

































- Your friends decided to stay.














I've been hanging out with our friends.













- I have two good reasons.



- There's a woman waiting for me.




































































































No, my friend, a few more days.


- It's true.








It's really you.





No, really, why?






































































































































- You better get those bets back.

























































Go see Dr. Laschel.










You guys did a good job.










- Okay.
Okay.




Well, who better than him?





- Oh, it's good to have you back.





























I've been watching you all morning.





I have a job.
Tell me, Dad Miller, did you go down to the pier this morning?
You know, I go to the pier every morning.










You see, work tonight is very important.































































- Well, okay...































You're a good cat.




He was a good man.












































Miller was my friend.





















































Okay, okay.









They'd like to have a nice evening at the dice game.













































- I'm sorry, honey.






















Okay, Marty. Okay.


































Okay, Mom, I'll talk to her.








- I'll tell you in the morning.


Okay, I'll go to bed early.









































Okay.

























- The Miller family was our good friends.





















- Okay.












But we're good here, aren't we?





























All right, Reginald.







- And you better not come back.
























































All right, send her flowers.

Joe Denning, night club manager and partner Marty Callahan of the Duchess Club, was found dead tonight with a bullet in his back.









Yeah, that's good.










Did you take a flight from the Duchess Club around 8:30 p.m.?












My friend here, he had his skull opened last week.
















That's your friend.

Okay.





- Good evening, Officer.



Better get him out of here before they steal him.















It wasn't my idea to have such a nice evening.












































































- I think it's best to take a look around.







































































You've got it all planned out.

































Two of his friends.



- This man, Leda, is he your friend?




- He offered me a job.





















I have to keep my job.


They're supposed to be here tonight.

Pepi, you better take care of Donahue.




































I'm waiting for my friend.















I'm sorry, I'm not leaving without my friend.





























If you think your friend Mr. Donahue can help you, that's not what I would hope for.















It makes the evening perfect.
























































If anything goes wrong tonight, it's your fault.

























I've really been expelled.



















































Hey, boss, I don't want to ruin your novel, but your dearest Miss Leda Hamilton is also one of the children of this gathering.


















Right now, we must divide them into vicious little groups of people who attack each other unconsciously doing our work.














It's a shame, Mr. Donahue, that you and I have to confront each other.





















All right, go ahead, take the hat.






















































































- Okay.

























I wanted to start the evening with a good poker party, and I was taken to Central Park to play cowboys and Indians.










































Good evening.
















Here's my picture, one of the best.






Better now?










It's better now.
It's better for him, I guess.














But by tonight, I wasn't so sure anymore.





































Good evening.




Okay.














Now I want you to meet my friends.


Good evening, Officer.















I'm telling the truth.






































- Okay.




My kids love it.






















Did you get anything out of this room tonight?

























We'll have the D.A. figure it out in the morning.


He's telling the truth.










I give up, darling.







































The best thing for Gloves is to get on a plane and fly as far away as possible.

















It's true.

































Well, okay, take them.











- Isn't that right, Staci?
















Here's a good chair.

- Good evening, Mama.



































































So far, it's been a minor, but tonight they're in charge.




- Okay.































All right, sister, take your things.



Your friend bailed you out.







- Your friends are waiting outside.


























It's better now.























I have to tell you about the importance of tonight's task.













- Yes, Doctor?



Thank you, Doctor.













Very good.
















- I'm sorry, I talked to my friend...





- Okay.



Well, all I can say is that it's nice to be here tonight to find out that you...














Well, if you think it's best.





I was told you examined the mines tonight.










































































- Your friend Donahue is downstairs.

















































































































































Okay, darling, get out.
























- Are you okay?






He didn't come home last night.

























The whole daddy's a bunch? It's better to be their father than a half-wit like you.




































































A gang of kids!

























She must be very expensive.











It's a little expensive, kid, 30 escudos.
















I wish we were really rich! A millionaires!
































Very good fabric. Foreign manufacturing.......................................




Oh, the water is so good! I really dived!



























Tomorrow morning, I have some work to do.














































































































- Poor kid!









































You've been rewriting this sentence all morning so that you can't get in your head like that.



If the master was alone, he'd better think about what he did wrong and not do it again.





































































You're a good man.
You're good for babies, too.


































































Good evening!





- Good morning, Mr. Minister!














































Do you need a job?





They said I was too good.








































































Haven't found a better class than pushing me, poor thing.






















My friends are gonna make me laugh.
Please call my friend!
- Fuck your friend!




My friend Inspector Sparrow.



In the meantime, I'm knitting shoes for the baby...


























She must be in good shape to sleep with such a boar!

























- Screw me, huh?

Women!











Good address... Monsieur Durana.





































You both love your job.






Tell me and I'll be good all week.
















You have another woman!










I've got a bad streak, but I'm actually good.













Goodbye, darling.






























Dr. Linz wants to go in there.




Good morning, how are you?
















But Doctor, I'm a virgin.






9:00 a.m.

















































We're waiting for our 8th baby.























- Dr. Linz...



















You can have children, but you can't drink whiskey?

























- Okay.




You're exaggerating, but I was a beautiful kid.








Women were crazy when he took off his robe.

It's true.
























Miss Cook is harmless, but Dr. Linz...






















































Dr. Linz...




Few people can risk their careers for a poor woman.

























You have good lungs!






Doctor, I've never criticized your cello game!

Unfortunately, Dr. Linz and I don't have musical tastes the same.


My friend never lets me sing.











Really?










Or better yet, why not a little hotel?





- He could be an elderly doctor.












- Good idea.


























Dr. Linz, you know so much about Duran.
- Are you a friend of his?
- Friend?











I'm sorry, my friend, but I'm laughing.





































Vincent, darling!









- My dear Vincent!























Doctor, this newspaper with Duran's name cut out was found in your room.































But Duran and the doctor are the same person.





Dr. Linz, would you go up the stairs?











Someone faked the doctor's limp, and like all the simulators, he overdid it.










Really?





- I've been in bed all night.












Okay.


- Very well, take off your robe!







It was a brilliant evening.

















































It was too expensive.









Do you walk in the evenings?










That's when my friends dragged me in.









- No, it was this morning.









I'll see you tonight.


















- I speak as a friend.
I can recommend a good eyeist.














But you know, when you wear your uniform all day... with your head on... it's nice to feel like a woman, feel silk on your skin.


























- Good evening!















I could send you to a better world.

- Do you think Dr. Linz is the killer?
























































Dr. Linz is innocent.
That's a good one.















- Duran strangled a woman.






































































The scoop of the evening.






Okay, thanks.








- Just between you and me, women.






























- It's good to be alive.



















































It's all for our three friends, recently cleared of suspicion.














Colin, Lala Pour, and Doctor, they're three Duranas!






It's true.























No, really.









To tell you the truth, you're not criminals.







































I'm sorry, Doctor, I'm waiting for your blade.










That's a good one!














- Wake up, Philin's friend.









- Honey, isn't it?













It's a mess, isn't it?














- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mrs. Overwhelming.

- Good morning, Bambi.


Good morning, young prince.
Good morning, young prince.










What did Dad tell you this morning?
If you can't say anything good,
If you don't say anything, don't say it.













































































































Good morning, young prince.

























































It's good here!




















































Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
































































I call you after me, darling...
































































Davis leaves with a good pilot.
- What do you mean, "Leave with a good pilot"?
- McLean's a good pilot.

McLean's a good pilot.

Well, it's the best job I didn't get.


























































Mr. McLean seems like a good man.


My best client, and he took him away.
That two-shoeser stole my best passenger from under my nose.







It's mean to mess up our business, but women are too much. What?





- I saw him this morning.












I have to wait for work.

































All right.






















That's better.











I just got a job.











Really?
























Really?


























Your friends?


































































- You steal jobs and you lose prices.



































- Dr. Neville.







































Your friend will only be saved by immediate help.
Okay.
Just know he's not my friend.









Four good planes, two in reserve, all we need for the airline.

Don't you think the doctor should stay?


The doctor needs to go back.




The bankers said one good winter and we could open up our airline.
- That'd be good.



























Well, he's fine. Okay.







The doctor's talking.








Okay. I'm going back and forth.


- Goodbye, darling.







Goodbye, darling.



It's a lot to do. You mean a lot of work?


















































I'll let you find a job, stay away.





We've got work to do for the whole winter.










Where did you say you found this job?







- Really?



I took your job honestly.




Okay, let's go straight.
I offered you this job because you're a good pilot and you owe us.
I'd prefer anyone else than a speculator who steals a job...
























Just brought me a doctor.







I'll take a job at Port Wilson.

That's good. You're gonna need my push when you land.













You'll always find a job.

You can't have secrets from your friends.










































- That's good. - We need to light the lights.

















































He brought money for a winter job.




















So, I'll be free in the morning.
























































She left this morning.
With your friend, McLean.




















































































































































My plane is too small for this job. So, if we get a couple hundred, I'm gonna trade my plane for a used two-engine and...



























And to tell you the truth, I think it might be useful for us to change it.



Storing here all night?

Okay, I'll take them.
















Let's get to work.





























Okay.






























































































































































You may be a good circus man, but I'll teach you how to fly.








- Yeah, he's good.















Maybe he'll be a good pilot for Jarvis.




You act according to the rules, it's good in peacetime.






Okay, let's start with 250 meters.


Really, sir?
I've seen a lot of machine guns these months, and you've been the best.





















The only way to teach these kids how to fly...

It's your job.






Do your job according to the rules. I'll do mine.



































The chief instructor told me that the prescribed training course... you had the best pilot in the department until you knew the rules.















It wasn't the best manoeuvring.




















































































































Your training is equal to or better than that received by the enemy.







































































Really?










































We understood each other.

































































































































































































































































We're not gonna let ourselves be shot, are we, Hapouga?




































- I don't know, honey.














- What, honey?













- What about it, darling Major?



- Okay.











Okay.



















































You despise me, don't you?





At a good price, Ugarte.

















You know, Rick, I have a lot of friends in Casablanca, but because you despise me, you're the only one I trust.




































I'm fine here.





Okay.



Where were you last night?


















Take her home! - Okay, boss.

Okay, boss.


You're so wasteful, you throw away women.



When it comes to women, you become a true democrat.




What's so good about Lisbon?









































































- Okay!












Because I, dear Rick, suspect that under that cynical face in the shower, you're sentimental.











Dear Rick, you're overestimating the influence of Gestapo.






Carl, put the Major in a nice table, close to the ladies!
I've already put him down for the best, knowing he's German and he's still gonna take it!




- Good evening, gentlemen!
- Good evening, Captain!




Can I recommend Vew Kliko? Good French wine.
All right, sir!















Sorry to bother you, friends.






































Do I really have brown eyes?

































Yeah, that's interesting! Okay.
















I was told you were the most beautiful woman in Casablanca.




No, Emile, a bottle of the best champagne.











Mademoiselle, he's the kind of man... if I was a woman and I wasn't around, I'd fall in love with Rick.
But I'm such an idiot, I'm talking to a beautiful woman about another man!




















Very good.



We've had a hard time before, haven't we?


- Okay. Don't worry!





As you can see, it's all true.










There'll be a meeting tomorrow night at Du Rua Cafe.


All right, Mademoiselle.

- Not very well.


We had fun here, didn't we, Berger?




All right, sir!






- Okay, madam.


I haven't seen him all night.







































With your job.

























What an interesting evening.



- Wish Sam well! - Okay.


















































Okay, boss.

























There's one plus on the occupation, isn't there, Mr. Richard?












Looking for a job!





















Okay. No quarter-five.































Trust me, Rick, it's true.


Richard, darling, I'll go anywhere with you.















At her friends' house, she met the man she'd heard about all her life.







Mr., when I was a kid, I met a man.



















Okay, Laszlo, I'm gonna say no offense. You're the escaped prisoner of the third Reich.





















If you give me their names and whereabouts, you'll get a visa in the morning.


















By the way, last night you showed interest in Mr. Ugarte.














- It's a job for Mrs. Ferrari.








- Good morning, Rick.




- I don't drink in the morning.

























- Good morning!





Ah, lady friend Rick! For Rick's friends, we'll make a discount.




We have a special discount for Rick's close friends. 100 francs.
















We didn't know much about each other those days in Paris.







It's true, over the cafe, but... come see me. I'll be waiting for you.






You see, my dear, the rumor has already spread!


































































Monsieur Rick, you will be your best visitor.





























Dear Major, we're trying to cooperate with your government, but we can't manage people's feelings.

















I thought you'd invite me, so I brought you a good brandy and a glass.



Good idea!

































That's why Ian and I, we don't want our kids growing up there.



























Good evening.



















































- Okay.



Do you know how important this is for the lives of thousands of people to be free, to go to America and keep working?



My underground friends told me about your past.




Yeah, I think it's an expensive hobby, too.
















- It's a good place to rest!
- Too good.












It was not safe for him to leave Casablanca this morning.












Is our loyal friend still there?



















Our friend on the street is gonna think we're in bed.








I love you very much, darling.





Yes, darling?











- You shut it down, okay?
- Okay.






















Richard. We used to love each other.








One woman hurt you, and you're taking revenge on the world!






This is a good place to do it!

Okay, I tried to convince you, I tried everything.







Okay, I'll make it easier for you.
























Even our closest friends didn't know about it.

I knew about his work.



Our friend came and said he was alive.













Then he'll have a job.









Okay.











- Okay, now! We need to turn off the lights in the yard.





Okay.






















Like, I know you're in love with a woman.
It's probably a strange fact that we both love the same woman.
The first night I came to this cafe, I realized there was something between you and Ilza.



































I'm taking a friend with me, you'll approve of the choice!
- What friend?




















Miss Land, she's very beautiful, yes. But you're not usually interested in women.
She's not a normal woman.











































Okay!


































Okay.























Last night...
A lot was said last night.







- I say that because it's true.

You're part of his job, the one that supports him.





We got him back last night!


But I have a job, too.











She came for the letters. Isn't that right, Ilsa?





















I know a little bit of women.

















































"Dear Miss Dubrovna..." "I'd like to write, "Would you like a cup of tea with me?"











You're the first friend I've ever had in America.


- But maybe you're my first real friend.























She screams like a woman.












He was a good king.


























- I'm afraid the ship will be good, Ellis.




















































She's a good woman.






Isn't that right, angel?






















When people in America are in love with each other or think they're in love, they usually kiss.





















You're so right that you're gonna marry me and these fairy tales, you're gonna tell them to our kids.

















Look at this woman.







What did this woman say to you, darling?











Irena, you're a crazy kid.






I'd like to ask... Mrs. Reid. What is it, darling?










































I envy every woman I see on the street.









All right. The bird was scared of you and what?
I had a rabbit who hated me... but I grew up to be a good guy.





















The best.
The best.














I must seem like a child to you.

Women who, in jealousy or anger or their own depraved passions, turn into giant cats, like a panther...
And if one of these women falls in love and the lover kisses her or cuddles her own evil to kill him.






And that's why the kids teased you and called your mother a witch, a cat woman.








Hello, darling.


Dr. Judd.
Ellis knows, darling.

I'm the one who recommended Dr. Judd.




I knew she'd advise a good doctor.







- Honey, really, you don't have any reason...





Or maybe there are things I don't want another woman to understand.


- What happened, darling?









I'm ready to get the moon out of the sky, darling.








This is your third mistake this morning.







But she's visiting Dr. Judd.

But I met him this morning.


































































Goodbye, Doctor.









I met Dr. Judd today.












I have a lot of work to do.

I think I'm gonna go grab a cup of coffee at Sweet Bun before I get to work.


































I'm a new type of woman.






























































- Just a minute, darling.






Oh, no. I can't tonight.



















Thank you for coming so late, Dr. Judd.





I believe, my dear Miss More, exactly as I said Miss Reed:

What do you think, Dr. Judd, if I tell you that I believe in this Irene story?





My dear, Miss Mor, this story is getting more and more charming.




Dr. Judd, the danger that threatened me was quite real.






Doctor, Judd, I know you don't believe me, but be careful.




Of course it's true, it's not silver.













Dear Mrs. Reid, sometimes my profession turns into a competition between a doctor and a patient.






Dr. Judd, believe me.






















I went to see Dr. Judd today.










- Trust me, it's better this way.

- Better for who?






















Both will not be easy for Oliver, Doctor.

And as your friend, however, I will offer much more sensible advice.


















Today was such a busy day, and there was a lot of work going on.









































It's gonna be okay.







- Dr. Judd.


We tried to find you, Dr. Judd, called the hotel.


Then you'd better go.

But she's dangerous, Dr. Judd.


Hello, Dr. Judd.
Dr. Judd.









































Is it true that you turned your back on Governor Hartman?














I just met a great woman.



















You better wash your mouth, young man.


































Yeah, old Henry and I are making a deal tonight at dinner.

























Well, you'd better insist on a wedding before the election.




























Okay.




















Okay.





Okay, Dad, at the end of the day, he made me laugh a few times.




















I'll find you a job on Monday.


























































- See you in the morning, Ed.



I think you've had enough stories from the lower form of life in one night.




I'm getting along very well with Paul because he's on the right track.






















































































































- He was my friend and a nice guy.



I suppose you understand that for you as a politician it doesn't look the best.













Good evening, Miss Henry.
































- Do you like this job?





























































Okay, I see you don't want to.

















You know, Paul is your best friend, and you're the one who found the body.










You think Paul would misunderstand you because you're his friend.

If I wanted to help you, and if I wanted to, I wouldn't be interested in who my friend is.





You think you're too good for me.
So, sister, to be honest, I think I'm too good for you.




























Okay.







I suppose you don't think much of me as a political leader, do you?







































- Okay.








- Good dog.




I'm offering you the best gaming place in town.












Okay.




















You don't think the Observer prints complete nonsense, do you?









That's good.



















































Okay, I'll work on it until you let me.




Okay.
That's not good.


We'll be back tomorrow morning.


Okay, huh?




Really?












































They wouldn't risk printing it if it wasn't true.



What you read this morning is just the beginning. There's gonna be a follow-up.












- I can't. She knows you're better off.





Paul says you're much better, Mr. Beaumont.










Is your nurse treating you well?








































You better go.




- Okay.


















- Okay.
It happened because he's my friend, and he's honest, remember?













Okay.










Dr. Raymond is never gonna let...
Give this to Dr. Raymond.
It's on the street, isn't it, Ed?













- That's good.














Baby, you look like you're ready for another beating, aren't you?

















Clyde, is that true?





I'm afraid so, darling.



















He can't do anything, the Observer will be out tomorrow morning.

Are you going to bed, darling?







I'm fine here.


































Look, the Observer is preparing a bomb this morning.



























Okay.





























































He's lucky for women, isn't he?




What good would that do?







You still think you're five times better than Paul and four times better than me.


Now that we understand each other, let's get out of here.







They really got you, didn't they?



Any judge will put you away if you don't tell the truth.































































I brought my best friend in the world here for a drink, and we're sitting here waiting half an hour until that lousy waiter comes.




















































I'm not getting out of this pub, am I?

































And the doctors, maybe Varna's still alive.




















- Just good advice.





Okay.




























































































Okay, get upstairs and stay there until she gets dressed.

I think you'd better make another warrant, Mr. Farr.


















































































Yeah, I've been watching all morning.



So, my friends, it's appropriate and proper that we celebrate the anniversary of the birth of a great American.












My friends. He was a great man, a real American, Senator Ethan Hoyt.



























Very well, you can go.












Did you have kids with him?

Is it true that he was a bigamy?











I wish you a good day.































Good job.
Do you like your job?













Some good, some bad.

































Or I'm not a woman.























"I'm very sorry to lose sight of the fact that you grew up without a mother, and there was no one to teach you how to be a good wife."








































































Well, the truth is, Mr. Sampler, I need your help.

Well, the truth is, Mr. Sampler, and I came to see you because... well...







































Do you have any women in the West?















Oh, I thought we were talking about women.
Women?
If we had women like this, we'd treat them like queens.





















Yes, darling?













Don't make a fool out of Delilah, darling.






You're just a kid.


Come on, honey.



In the morning.





























I think we'd better get back.
































Really!
























Do you agree to marry this woman?



















This looks like a good place to camp for the night.




Well, I mean, you get up in the morning.





























Do you really think so?














My dear Mr. Hoyt, the railways are worth money.






























It's a nice house in Philadelphia.


She deserves better.



You don't want to make her a Prairie woman.



Well, Mr. Frisbee wants you to sign this document, darling.
Rabbits can wait, darling.



Please, darling.

















Did you really want me to sign this?
















































This way, friends.























Watch your ace, man.





I told you you couldn't win, man.



Watch your ace, man.












You'd better be careful.






















































































You see, Ethan and I, we're going to have a baby.









I never carried a gun, man.





In the morning.







Let's wait till morning with this.



Okay.


















































You know, if a woman feels the same as you... and her name is Hannah...



















































Okay, I'm gonna go.






















Here, take the kids.



































My children, 76.
Oh, my God, I must be the oldest woman in the world.































































It's better this way.




















One of our best shows, sir.





You say the woman who calls herself Hannah Hoyt works here?







My friends, Steely.
































Good woman. I mean Bettin.



















Two kids?






























My friend Ethan Hoyt says if he's not elected, Western Railway will change its plans and cross the river 10 miles south of here.











I'd use it to tell the truth.



Friends, please forgive me for just a few final words in response to my old friend and congressman, Hank Allen, who reminds me of the dog I had when I was a boy.

















It's true, I have a lot of land here.




My friends, I accept the views of the West Railway and progress.














I brought you our children.




























































Tell the truth and fight for it.












































































Okay, Ethan.





































- Good evening, Tom.













Mr. Fitzroy is asking you to be home tonight.
- Okay.





Very good.


- Well, that's good, I'm proud of you, Perry.




Okay.




















































- Our children, their troublesome.



























- If I listened to the doctor, I'd be in a wheelchair.


















- And that's gonna be his job.

















We love each other.




- Good evening.




Uncle, darling, I'm sorry I'm late.























Uncle, darling.




That's beautiful, darling.









You better keep your purse tight.


- Remember what the doctor said.





At the time, it was a good building, but now is not the time for sentiment.
You can't use good land for nothing.




















Young man, Dr. Bucknan says you're doing great at the hospital.




If you're thinking of a career, there's nothing to stop you from taking Dr. Bucknan's place someday.

And I'm not sure he's as good as they say he is.


































You disappear every night.




Stanley, what is it, darling?


We used to tell each other everything.





That's not good.

Maybe tomorrow morning.









The doctor asked me to be a consultant.








If you tell me where you're going, I'll help you pack up like a good wife.

And you like things to fit each other.


































I just want to remind you that we told each other that we promised each other.



We're good, Roy, the best thing that can happen to anyone.
A lot better than I deserve.
I wasn't a good husband, but I love you.




- Hey, honey.








Honey.











Good morning, Mr. Timberlake.





























But this morning, she left with things.











































We'd better go straight home.



























We found each other." We found each other.















To work, of course.







What could be better?














- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.





It's lucky to have a job under these circumstances.








































You like to dance too, don't you?




Mom and I are so grateful for this job.
It's good to have a steady income.















A white guy can get any job.



He can keep his job, or lose his job, but he can't get more.


















- Okay.






Now I'm a free woman.





















- What about your job?
























Call me at work.






Really?










- I understand, my dear.















- Okay.







Honey.

- Imagine me as a good wife.

- I'm so sorry, darling.

- It's okay.
- No, it's not okay.






















Isn't that right, darling?


























Who? - Our friends, the Kingsmils.

Congratulations and goodbye.
It's the biggest idea I've had in the evening.






- Please, darling, it's too late.


- I'm supposed to be in the hospital in the morning.




















- Okay.



Honey.



To make a good wife?

Honey.


Honey.
Honey.
Am I all that, darling?























- It's better without a name.
- Okay, no name.




























Is that what we want from each other?

































- No, I'd better go.




- Forget it, darling.





She's my best friend in this town.
- Then you better make some more friends.




Stanley, we have to stop torturing each other.
























I like this job.


















You're coming, aren't you?


















The doctor says I'm getting old, though, that would be unfortunate.


I've done so much good for Stanley's fraud.










Yes. And more than that, these houses are good and they're 50 years old.













A young man before you give up on my offer, you'd better think about your future.















The faster the better.
Honey.














Okay, somebody's coming from us.






















Roy, darling.
















Maybe I should go to Baltimore.












- It's better now.


His brother arrived this morning.














Stanley, darling.
























































I'll feel better.

I'll feel better.

It's gonna be okay.
In time, it's gonna be okay.
It's gonna be okay.






Don't worry, darling.















- Okay.










Where are you going, darling?

Be careful, darling.














We're going to the opera tonight.





Hello, darling.
































- Stanley, darling.






Good evening.
- Uncle, darling.




You know how panicked these doctors are.
Doctors and wives are made from the same test.




















I'm better now.








It's all doctors.















Uncle, darling, what are you gonna leave me after you die?






























I gave him a decent job at the factory.












Uncle, darling, I'm so unhappy.


















You're a spoiled kid and you need to be spoiled.



- Uncle, darling.






Okay.

























- Okay.


























I'll be at the bank tonight.





- But we're friends, aren't we?





- I don't think that's good, Stanley.

We're friends, aren't we?


Why don't you want to admit the truth, Craig?



It's true, isn't it?

I'll meet you at the Southside tavern at 7:00 p.m.
















- Good morning.

















Nothing, darling.






Last night, around 7:30, a car hit a woman and a girl when they crossed Grant's Boulevard and Sayer Street.
The woman is in serious condition, and the girl is dead.


But one woman saw a sports car running away.





What is it, darling?







Stanley, darling.



They're better off knowing the truth from the beginning.






















He's a coloured guy who works in a law office and does extra work.










I'm doing my job.





















But what Ms. Stanley told the police about my poor boy isn't the truth.



And he spent the whole evening at home reading books.





























It would have been clearer if Stanley had been telling the truth. But she doesn't say.

























You shouldn't have gone so fast, should you?


You drove fast, didn't you?
Peter said I was the best driver he'd ever seen.






Stanley, what time did Perry take the car last night?











For your own good, tell me the truth.
What truth?

I'm talking about an injured woman in the hospital who's gonna be told that her girl died.




They're in the same joint and cover each other.








Really?


You need the truth.
Okay. Let's see how you like her.





















Anyway, it'll be nice to get out of the house.











If he's face to face with you, he can break down and tell the truth.
All right, then.





























It was a lovely evening, you wanted to go for a ride, and that's when the incident happened.







- It's to tell the truth.
Just the truth, Perry.




I've told the truth and nothing's gonna help me.








Okay, Craig.
I'll send the order tonight.
It's better if you bring it yourself.
It'll be better.



- I'm trying to get you to tell the truth.



You didn't see a woman and a little girl.



If that's true, everyone will know about the incident.




Tell me the truth.
- Really.
Really.




















Mr. Timberlake, Stanley was here yesterday at 7:00 p.m.?


- That's not true.






Okay.










































Okay.






I'm gonna be okay, Mom.














I really need you.


- Good evening...


Doctor and Mrs. Fitzoy are in the library.


Uncle, darling.






















Uncle, darling, why don't you answer?







- That's what the doctor said.
- Maybe the doctor's wrong.






















A woman at a high speed didn't fit into the turn.
















Dear Stephanie, if this letter is found on me... and if it comes to you, you have to believe everything and try to understand.
It all started the night we arrived in Istanbul.

















Go if you want, darling.









I know a better place.








And that's where I met this woman.












I want you to meet my friend, he's an American.













He's a master, isn't he?





















They're doing their job, it's for you.
My job!













































To keep working.

















I've got so much work right now, so much... complexity.















The presence of Banat was reported tonight.


















My dear, you will be on this train or on another train, and you will be dead before you arrive in Batumi.















- It's the best way.















It's a good thing it's okay!




Then you'd better take this.







It's true!











That's clever, isn't it?

Such a trip could be... a good disguise for you.








Being a soldier has good sides.




















Tell me the truth, what are you doing on this ship?


























Our tobacco is the best.














It's been a very restless evening.







Stephanie, you knew that when you married me, there's nothing special about me, I'm a good engineer, but I'm not a hero.


Try to understand me, though, as far as this woman is concerned.


My name is Haller, Dr. Fritz Haller.


Good German. From the old Germany.



























The breasts in the crosses are better than the head in the bushes.
It is women who must fight.






















I play, but not very well.
















"Dear, I only think of you, and I dream of you at night."






All right, sir.











It's too easy to be true.



















































- Good evening.















There was a good speaker.
Eight days later, I told his friends what he was doing.


Her friends were respectable, and I shouldn't have spoken like a proletarian.






















Are you feeling better?












Honey, I see when a man is scared.





Have a good evening, Mr. Graham.




Only it's true.




















- Not good enough.









































I think it's best to keep it for Mavrodopoulos.










If you die before you return to America, you will be sent a replacement. But your work will be suspended.



























Okay.


























Tonight after you talk to Mueller, lock yourself in your quarters.
Tomorrow morning, before the ship arrives at the port, you must go to room 5 at the end of the corridor.























I'll be right back, darling.





























It's a woman, women don't know what to do.














Well, darling, is everything okay?














Good morning.













I didn't see Kuvetli this morning.









She arrived this morning.


















You were supposed to be here in the morning.















Where are you going, darling?






I'm invited tonight.














It's okay, we'll be friends.



It's even better.















"This woman meant nothing to me."


















































If you want my opinion, you'd better go to the Gordons.
Anna, Parris can decide what's best and what's not.






















But Grandma said to be polite, Dr. Tower.


















































- Okay!
































What's Dr. Gordon gonna do?









Didn't Dr. Gordon give him chloroform?
The doctor said he had a heart condition.



I'm gonna kill this doctor!









We're friends. And we have to stay with them.

Stop walking around, there's a lot of work at home!


















He says it's best for me.





























I'm going to see Dr. Tower.








































































Madame has a few months at best.











- Good night, my friend.
















And you like Dr. Tower?
















Good night, my dear.













With my peers, my friends.



You don't have any friends?










Dr. Tower...



- Goodbye, Doctor.






Dr. Tower just said I have to see you.

- He said I should be with my friends.




Dr. Tower let me out the back door.


















































No, I came by myself, Dr. Gordon.




- She was a righteous and God-fearing woman.


























The doctor always locks them in the same drawer.

















































- Kids are so stupid.


You've always been the best.






















I'll call home in the morning and tell you I spent the night at your place.


- So you better tell me where you've been.








































It's not right for a child to be raised by an old woman who will leave him at the very moment when he needs her most.

- Parris is a good boy, madam.


















She wants to meet me tonight.









Dr. Tower once said,



I learned a lot from Dr. Tower.











Dr. Tower, I'm gonna ask you a question that you might not like.

- Dr. Gordon's a good doctor?


When I was a kid, Willie McIntosh's father died of shock during a drug-free surgery.


Dr. Gordon treated her, and since then one side of her face has been horribly paralyzed.


















Really, I'm afraid I don't get it.











































I wouldn't be surprised, young man, if you'd become a good doctor.









It's better than you think, Parris.








Dr. Gordon's been here twice today.








Why is everyone hiding from me like I'm a kid?























I forgot how good it is.


































It's probably even harder, I wish I hadn't said it.












You're the sweetest, the best.

















I intend to be a good doctor, great if I can.
















I stopped by at midnight when Dr. Gordon left.


Dr. Gordon said there's nothing more he can do.









































I have a lot of work to do.































































I heard about it on the radio early this morning, called the newspaper, confirmed it.
Dr. Tower poisoned Cassie and then shot himself.






















- I'm a friend of the family.






























- Did Dr. Tower know about this?










I wanted to meet Parris to give him a letter left by Dr. Tower.














What happened on the other night when I saw her?


Why did Dr. Tower leave me all his property?






I know why Dr. Tower killed himself and Cassie.





A little bit, we were kids.








You mean, Dr. Tower...




I guess not more than Mrs. Tower did when Dr. Tower married her for love.





Drake, I think Dr. Tower knew about us.








I don't know what Dr. Tower knew about that night.

















































My dear friend.
- He's a good guy, isn't he?
- The best.

































Here it is, darling.














Do you want me to show you what I think is a good idea?






It's exciting, isn't it?

- Yes, darling.







Smell of flowering plums, sunshine, moonlight, morning, day, night.







The best thing about you, darling,





















- I was a nasty kid.















































- I'm not good enough for...



They don't think I'm good enough for you.






















When a city boy starts rolling around in the evenings with a girl from the suburbs, there's talk.



We can't blame people for telling the truth, can we?
































And most of what they're saying is true.


We like each other.












































I got drunk at Fritz Bachman's last night.




Truth is, son, I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time.

I gave myself my word this morning when I woke up in a cell with three others like that.
I need a job, Mr. Manehan.





And I'll turn into a tramp if I don't get a job.















- Drake wants me to help him with his job.






We'll get you a job, son.




- My friends are here.






Reds are such tyrants, aren't they?










I'm in control of the railway.










You're making a career, my friend.






"Dear Drake, I'm glad to hear you're doing okay, and everything's going like this... "It's okay to miss it.



- Maybe because I'm his friend?
- I love your beautiful pride, darling.





























I guess we're just used to each other.




I know, darling.












Call Dr. Gordon right now.


































- I'll help you, Doctor, tell me what you need.







- Okay, and pull the curtains.















































- That's better.




















Did the doctor tell him to give him another shot tonight?



















Yes, darling, but don't talk about it now.


- Dr. Candell sent for me.











Mitchell, I loved your work.
Just so you know, you're the best graduate in the last few years.































- Drake, are you okay?



















That morning, when you came to ask Pa to help you with your job...


















When I decided to be a psychiatrist, I didn't realize I had to write my first prescription for my favorite friend.










Dear Parris.






- Okay, darling.


Women have no idea about money.













And you're a better man than most people I know.







Of course, you're gonna have to explain to me what to do, because I'm just a woman.



























- Okay.







Oh, I don't know... better.
I think it's better.





















- It's even better, huh?

















We really need a new doctor, now that Dr. Gordon's dead.
Dr. Gordon died?





Which one of you, gentlemen, Dr. Mitchell?




You're a doctor now.











Dr. Mitchell was probably surprised by my invitation.








- Really?




Then Dr. Gordon died.


When my dear husband was lying here in this room,





Dr. Mitchell, understand your mother's despair.








I brought you an old friend, my daughter, Parris Mitchell.
He's Dr. Mitchell now, he's come to see you.








- You're a doctor now.







































































I'm not saying it's true.


















You think it's best to let her make a scandal?




















Dr. Tower.
















Dr. Mitchell, the virtuoso piano?















- You all know, don't you?





















- You're just a kid.


Did you think you were a child when you were 19?




























This is Dr. Mitchell.


It's a pleasure to welcome you, Dr. Mitchell.









- Really?
- Really.




Better next time.















Are you leaving so early, Dr. Mitchell?







She speaks sincerely, Doctor.












It was a great night.













































Are you gonna be okay, Drake?









- Hello, Doctor.



































































- Are you really gonna help me?

Go home now with Mr. Manehan, and I'll come over tonight. - Will you do it?












- Parris, did Dr. Gordon do this? - I don't know.





I guess we better know if we shouldn't.



He was helping the doctor.












Then it's true!










































Really?














If I can't cure my best friend...

He's your best friend.





























I'm not your friend, and you're not mine.

















I'm not sure the amputation Dr. Gordon performed was necessary.








It's spicy, isn't it?











The dry underwear of children is like tiny flags and flints, whipping with joy, welcoming a small nation, a nation of babies, and children.
Kids behind bars, children in cages,
Kids in short trousers, kids in skirts.
Children, children, children.
They were all produced under the care of the Mothers Aid Institute, which assists women.





It's prepared for every woman who needs help.

Last year, 37,400 women applied for help from all social classes.
And this prejudice is to think that only single women are supported by the Mother's Aid Institute.

Young women no longer have to behave with inappropriate haste because they no longer feel alone.
There's a chair behind each of these doors waiting for women who need help.



I went to the doctor, but he's not gonna...










Have the doctor examine you first.
But why don't you have this baby?


Don't you have a job?

I'm sure we can help you get your job back.



Think of what the baby's gonna do to tie me to arms and legs.
And it wouldn't be fair to the baby, either.



And I can't raise a child alone.

We can arrange this for you, but you're gonna have a baby first, and then we're gonna see if you want to give it back.






The examination and care performed by the midwife and the doctor are completely free of charge.
In the past year, almost 3,000 consultations were given to both married and unmarried women.

She's very interested in learning how to take care of a child.





Yeah, that's better.
As Hern prepares for the birth of a child, Mother's Institute takes care of his father.


Even so, many young women need help.



Her baby is born in the country's main hospital, and her baby is screaming for the first time in her life.

Herna and her baby spend the first few months after birth completely free of charge.
Last year, these homes provided shelter to 250 mothers and newborns, as well as to 1,000 other children temporarily left in care.
Erna's kid gets a lot better care than he could get home.
































Now she's got something worth living for - a home and a baby.




Good clean rooms for only $15 a day."




































You'd better think it over.

















- Good morning, Cherry. - Harry.



Good morning, Seth.



I guess I'll be back by tonight.







































That's why your work is none of my business.









I don't know him personally, but I see he has good taste.












Always a pleasure. Quick job.



Will you show me the city sometime tonight? Show me?














































I wish there were colours on the ship.





No, like a woman.







































See you tonight, baby!




























































I'm not the best man in the world. Why me? Who knows?


























But Miss Cherry, we gave him the best years of our lives!









You know, when two men spend the winter snowing in a cabin two by four meters, they either become friends and get to know each other...










Yeah, but Cherry's much better than her.
A woman shouldn't look like a coin that's just gone.



























I'd rather snatch the cards.











Poker is the main good change.





It's not my night, Cherry.










I'm not one of those, am I?























If there are complaints, you'd better go there.

















Good guy, this Glennister. The pants, really, wouldn't you caress...

































































Not your friends.
































But I think it's time to understand each other better.












It's time to offer a woman a hand and a heart.



Go back to work, Bronco.


































Good morning, gentlemen.





A reasonable judgment is the best guarantee.



As soon as the trial opens on Monday morning, I promise I'll take care of your case immediately.











































Okay, I'm lying.




If the news were good, you wouldn't bother us.




















Good evening, Cherry.










































Now that we're friends, you can call me Miss Malott.


























In view of the busy schedule, I must state that the court has not been able to deal with this case properly.










































































- No, that's a good idea.
















Sailing out tonight?
- Yeah, I'd like you to join us.
I'd love to. But I have a friend...











Tonight, my eyes must see well those in distress.




















That's a good idea, baby.






- Are you okay? - Even better than before.















































I'd better wash the tan and wash my shirt first.





















- Good evening, Mr. McNamara.









If you knew me better, you'd realize I never played on the loser's side.


























It's a good idea to put a face on.



I guess that means he's been here all night?





























Shouldn't we call a soldier?


Maybe we should get out of here.



























Those who are in my establishment, my friends.



If I ask him to find a place for a friend, he'll do it.


















A woman doesn't run away from a man she loves.











They'll bring him dinner tonight and let him out the back door.
































Very good.




















- Good evening, Mr. Glennister.

I was hoping to see one friend.

Sorry, Cherry, I'll lose my job if I let you.

















































Good morning, people!






I think I'll feel better if I get on the couch.



Such a good man!



























































A good wine and a charming woman.


































The most expensive thing is what you dream of, Mr. McNamara.










































Is that true?
Of course, really, there's no doubt.





















Dad said he'd give it to me for the good marks.









































- Good morning.





- Too good.



















If the baby is born, maybe I won't be the mother.



















































- Do something good.



Honey, you were right this morning.

Isn't that right, darling?


But, honey, you know how I feel about you.


- Really, sweetheart?



Third night in a row?



...is sitting on the gallery every night.







Thank you, darling.
I really don't know who they're from, though I guess.


He's sitting in the second row again, and he looks better.






















"Dear Lieutenant..." Don't judge me, Anna.

































































- What happened, darling? What?


- Of course not, darling!












- Hello. This is Dr. Voivsky.


















































Oh, no, honey, no.
You're a good woman, and you're, of course, sorry for him.







"Tonight German troops..."





People will kill each other.



















































































- Oh, a woman?























































































- Good evening.























Okay.


- Good evening.
- Good evening.




































You see, we know a lot of people in Warsaw, but there are people we don't know very well, and we'd like to know better.


























We like to sing, to dance, to admire women.





And at the end of the evening, you're gonna scream "Heil Hitler."














- I'm much better now.



















- Siletsky's going to Gestapo in the morning.






























- I hope your home country's worth more than yours.























And the best way to start a scout's trade is with champagne.

















And you're a success for women, Professor.


















































- Okay.

























And tomorrow morning, I'll send copies to Berlin.












Okay.





























- Okay.



- Okay.



















































- Okay. Gestapo's gonna find out the truth!












































Good evening, Professor.
Good evening.
- Good evening, Professor.
- Good evening.












I've been ruined by such a lovely evening.















-...one errand. Isn't that right?

You see, there's a young pilot, a close friend of the Four Tour, and most of all, Mrs. Toura.

Yeah, but he's not that close at all.
Still a friend.








- Yeah, I know. - I'll be at his place in the morning.








Honey!







Maria, darling, tell me frankly, I need to know.

- Oh, honey, honey, I love you!
































I'll tell you a secret, Professor, your old friend, the Fuhrer, is going to Warsaw.






Tell me, is it true that the Führer's residence in Bertechsgaden is impressive?






































I already have the key. We're gonna have to find the keyhole. It's better.






















































































































































































No, no. I tried to talk to your friend, but it looks like he's dead.



If I'm wrong, correct it, but I think there's a resemblance between me and your late friend.
































































When I arrived this morning, I discovered in an hour a conspiracy threatening the Fuhrer.

































As we know, Hitler will be at the theater tonight.









No, you're not. There won't be any women.















- Well, good.



- Oh, darling, goodbye!





























































Good evening, Mrs. Toura.






...that you, Mrs. Toura, are a very attractive woman.

We thought it was weird that a woman like that might have been attracted to Professor Siletsky.





- Yeah, she woke a kid in me.
- It's a good thing I didn't pick her up.

























































My friends, thank you for your help!



















With the most sophisticated weapons, combated and trained by officers in the tradition of the Corps, U.S. Marine Corps soldiers are rightly considered to be the best Marines in the world.



















But the doctor claims it was Daniel Frasier.


































- You must be a good man.


Your old friend Chris Winters."








It's even better.




We'll talk about it tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.









There are five types of women in this establishment.















I'm afraid you won't be interested in the story of the Gobi desert trip. Have a nice day.






Good evening!
- Good evening!
- Good evening!




























- Looks like a meeting of old friends.










- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening.
- Good evening.

Good evening, Major Wilson.




Sorry, good evening. - Hello.























































- Good morning, Roberts.
- Good morning, Sergeant.



No, I told a rookie to show up at 5:00 a.m., or I...














































Beautiful pictures, aren't they, sir?





















































































Better now, Dant.











































But he knows you're gonna be the best Marine.


























Okay, ma'am, I'll make sure there's no such misunderstanding anymore.



























- We should show the doctor the pictures.
- Okay.
- Are you feeling better? - Yes, sir.



I'm better now, I can even sit down.





It's better now.
I'm sorry about that night.













You'd better get some rest.













Maybe he can sleep well, sleep well and be healthy. - I'm gonna teach him a lesson. - Don't be, Sergeant.







- We'll wait tomorrow morning.







- Is that better?







It's better this way.
Oh, my God, that's good.

- I hope it's better tomorrow.























































































Honey!








Really, you're very kind.























Honey, take it, please.

















- It's an office job.
- Really?






























Must be a close friend. Yes, sir.





















Put the theory into practice. - All right, Sergeant.















































































They say your friend left.





































Good morning, gentlemen.
Beautiful morning, isn't it?




Best senior sergeant ever won anything.











All right, let him come in.


















Mary, tell the truth.

- I told the truth.


















If you had any sense, you'd know he's your only friend.
Can you be considered a friend?
















Honey, we're gonna be so happy.

Come on. - Really?


























It's better here than the place.

















The worst job in the Navy.























































- Yeah, and the faster the better.

Maybe it's for the best, Winters. And that's why:


































































As soon as you sign. - All the better.











- He only talked about you the best.











That's because we were good in Calver.




















































































- Okay.

















Well, really...


You better help me.




















Do you have another, basic job?





See you tonight.
Good morning, dear friend.






































I knew you'd curl up at work to pay rent and food.


Okay. Right away.















Lying to a friend... what a shame!



Women.
Yeah. Women!















It's not good to lie to him.





















The difference is huge, my dear doctor.








You really don't feel well.




I have the same dream... I see an amazingly beautiful woman.







You'll feel better.
It won't change anything. I'm fine already.





Work isn't very difficult.
























When it comes to women, you lose all your will.






I can't be with two women at the same time.



























You have the right to know the truth.




















- It's true.




































I've got a better offer: let's go have lunch with us.



I've been falling in love with imaginary women, too.
They're the ones I have the best memories of.

I have to use imagination even with the most real women.






My dear friend, once I lost my sight, I could see.


























































It's your last night with your fiancé... 'cause tomorrow he's not gonna be your fiancé, he's gonna be your husband.









































































I'm counting on you tonight.






































































Okay.




Say goodbye now, and be a good boy.



























That's better.














You gotta be ready for anything, darling.





Okay, I'll be right there.











































And that's where our two friends come in.




Good evening.
Mademoiselle, allow me to introduce you... to Dr. Telier.









Beware of Dr. Telier.

Women are crazy about him.





















Dr. Telier's clinic.



























- Yeah, let us do our job.




















Right in front of your eyes... I'm gonna ask you to lie in one of the sarcophagus... a woman who's gonna be brave enough to trust me.


















































Are they your friends?
You showed us the body of a woman.























I have a Ph.D. in philosophy... but here I'm studying for an exam... in love fitness... I want to get a Ph.D. in irenology.
























































































Good evening, Josephine.






Can you tell me how to get into Dr. Telier's office?


































Okay.





















I didn't see you dreaming as a child, so you can't exist.


























































































Ghosts, you know, can be very honest with each other.

























My dear, since we're sleeping... why don't we make good use of this?














































- It's not gonna hurt your job.














Killing you would be a little too... wouldn't you?





It's better to tell you everything!


I was supposed to have a financial check this morning.




Her father was my friend.





And in order to avoid a problem with the check this morning, I decided...

- After all, it's my job.
You missed your chance, my friend.












































My dear Irene... for our love!
















































It was a dream, Doctor.





















































Your friend Boris gave me this.



















































Women.











































































- Great, thank you. - Hey, you better do your homework or the skipper's gonna put you in a corner and give you a stupid cap.
Leave it open, darling.































































Hell of a woman.
Can you guys talk about anything other than women?




















































































































































































































- That's the way it is, isn't it, guys?











My dear Adolf...





Oh, honey.










It was a good ship.


- Are you okay?






- Oh, honey, I love it.










It's so good here.













Rest well, sweetheart.






- This morning.




Hey, what do you got for toothache?









- Yeah, it feels better right away.




















































































I've always wanted a stylish pin since I was a kid.























































For me, the safest job is on the Staten Island ferry.
















You guys talk like kids.














Doesn't anyone care, and I want to know my kid's gonna be a boy, a girl, or twins?









What good is a medal when you're thrown on a beach covered with algae?

So my kid can sing, "My dad's lying somewhere behind the ocean," or in the ocean?
I want to rock the kid's knees.




















So you want a safe job?

Find out about their safe work.



























- Welcome home, darling.























































Honey, I want you to meet a good friend of mine, Steve Jarvis.

















- It's true.




















You'd better ask her.

I think we just love each other.










































Yeah, that's good.






































Boy, oh, my boy, I'm gonna sleep tonight.
























































- Get to work.






- He's good, mister.




Too much anxiety and paperwork in your job is a skipper. Well, no.


















































































- How many women are there, Botzman?



- Very good.































All right, guys.















































































I will never forget the night I spent with you and Mrs. Zimer and my family.






























Your normal distance is 500 yards apart.










What means of communication do we use if we lose contact with each other - or when ships are scattered?








But after this trip, we'll get to know each other better.



Okay.

































































We want to get married, but we have to wait until I get the third assistant captain's job.








We didn't have time to take a good picture.

- who would think of you, wouldn't they? - Yes.

I dreamed of it when I was a kid.







There's no more work to be done than ours right now.


It's your job and my job to make sure they get this.









































Okay, Brown, the visibility's improving and what's going on with the convoy behind our backs.


Okay.



































































































Better than two, it'll be better than a bite.




























































































































































- Very good.



- Okay.









Isn't that a great sound?





I was in such a good mood when the sun rose, and that stinking boat wasn't around.
It's so nice and warm.











We're ready to bite each other's heads off right now.








































































- Nice work, Parker.
























Okay.










Better, Joe.























- He was a good guy.

They made him a good officer.








I think these are the best marks in a book I've ever read.








And that's good.














I guess I knew Parker was a little better than the others.




Too bad their friends aren't here to see the end of their glorious battle course.
































































- Okay.






























- It's a job for a boat with a glass bottom.





































- It means, "Camrad." That's good.









- Good evening, Mother.




- Is your stepson coming tonight?
















- Good evening, my money.
- Good evening.












He has a good job in Paris.

















































- Good evening, everyone.





















Better get used to it if you stay.












- Good evening, everyone.
- Good evening, Minam.


















- Good evening, everyone.
- Good evening, Minam.






- Good evening!


- Very good!







- Very good!










































- It's a good thing I have a cabin in the woods.





































































































































































































- Tell me, mistress, is it true that you're kicking us out?


Get out in the morning, you and your mother!






































Good evening.




































- The goopies don't eat each other.




























- It's not a story for women, especially with your tongue.































The day of the evening is wiser.









































































- That's not true.










- That's good.



















- Very well, if you all agree.































There's nothing better than traveling.

















This is the best room.



























































- You're wasting your time, my friend.


































- Yeah, go get some rest, my good boy.

























- It's true.























































- You're getting out of here, women!












































- She said he was a good man, but he didn't understand me.
















- The truth is, she didn't want to die taking all these medications.


















Well, not a word if you know what's best for you.























- Very good.


















































- It's true.











I'm sorry, I mean, how's your dear father?






- My son, Eugene. He has a good position in Paris.

















- Well, okay, Paris is a symphony.























































I just have a good memory. I said my answer to the school exam.
Since you have such a good memory, why don't you remember where the treasure is?


















































































































































































Okay, we'll figure it out.



































- Okay, we'll see about that.

































































































Tell me the truth.




- Tell me the truth.




















- Oh, that's better.



















- Nice work.
- Yeah, it's good.










































































































- That's not good.








































- Good stuff, but it's still bad.



















- Okay, if that's what you want.




- Very good.
















They respect money because money is a job.





You're gonna get married, and you're gonna have kids.












He's a good advertising agent.
- and a good friend.













I thought, "Would Kiki come out tonight and walk in front of a bunch of rotos who think that a Spanish wrestler is the best thing in life?















If you're afraid, darling, I'll get him for you.






It's better in black.













































































The poor don't fool each other.













Wait a second, darling!






It's okay, friends.















































































You saw him this morning.










































Why did you participate in the search this morning?


I heard you tell Rowbles this morning that you didn't want to go, but you did come.




I know it's best not to let others know what you really think.













Roses are like children.








- Your business will only be better.






Good morning to your birthday, señorita.











Hurry up, darling, or we'll be late for Mass.





























































































































































- We're old friends.



































































We'll find a better suspect.







To rip up women?



















If I do this, I'd rather be detained.



If it makes you feel any better, I'll lock you up for a few days.




































Forget about mom and the kids, the unpaid checks, the rent, and marrying some poor guy like Carlos Domínguez and getting fat.





- Good guy?




You don't buy a house for feelings, you don't pay for living, you don't raise kids, and you don't buy them clothes...







- Mom and the kids.



















































You'd better stay home and rest.



- I called this morning.









Ask any woman.
Women don't start painting in the middle of the night on a dark, desert street unless they're with a man, or they're gonna see him.

























It's a good feeling.

















































It's good what you think of us.













I want this town to be nice and quiet again.






















I have a lot of friends, and they don't burden me with talking.































- Leopard in the bag is a fact, isn't it?



































- Oh, good evening.





























No, really. I can see them.































































































































































































































And yet you and I are in a better position...





















It's due this morning, and he has nothing to pay.































I really don't know anyone in this town, but I'm gonna try and get it!
















Okay!
Very good!






























Friends, I need 400 tangs right now, exactly 400.











































































































































































I want this girl brought to us tomorrow morning!







































































Okay, I'll try to find Nasreddin.


Oh, woman, woe to you!



Okay, I'll bring you Nasreddin!























He's dressing up as a woman.










( Women scream.......................................
















































I wish I hadn't been born!















































Let the Emir tell me if he went to see a woman today.










The star Alcap, which means the sting of death, has stood in front of Ashhal's star, meaning the heart, and until the location of the stars changes, the Emir must not touch a woman, or his death is imminent!


























But you will believe, Hussein-Huslia, this morning we left our belt in the garden, our favorite belt.










































































Yeah, well, it's a good torture to stretch your teeth, but...


Good torture!












































He only thinks about you day and night, darling.














- Very good!






Okay!
























What a good torture!














































It's gonna be okay.






















































































It's best to burn alive at the stake!














I'd rather die than know our Nasreddin is captured.
It's better for us all to die than to know that he will be executed, our Nasreddin!



































































































































You're not sleeping, darling.

You're not offended, are you, darling, that I'm late?








What's in it for me, darling?

























She was beautiful, and with such a good husband...

















This was done by a specialist. The work of our city's best jeweler.

























My own job.








































































I bought it for a woman I didn't even know.
I wish I hadn't bought it. Then Madeleine wouldn't have done it.

























































It's a good one.












But we're gonna have to be together from night to morning... from morning to evening.













So I'll see you tomorrow night...





















A man meets a charming woman.

Besides, it's all true.

A charming woman smiles.


How do you meet this charming woman?









Outcome: I can't live without this adorable woman anymore.














You turn the day into a night, the truth is a joke... and my good intentions...




You'll remember. Did you just say the truth last night? - Yes.






It's easy for you women when you don't find an answer.













When we met in front of the jewelry store, you thought I was crazy, didn't you?






















































Did you buy yourself something, darling?


There's a lot of good stuff in the shops.







Where are you, darling?











What's wrong with them? They usually understand each other so well.









It's a good thing you're here.








You come from 9:00 to 5:00, Tuesdays from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m., Saturday only every two weeks, Sundays aren't...























- It's better for both of us.



Are your whims more important to you than your job?







So I suggest we do what we agreed at the time to do in such a case: break up in time.





Insulting a loving woman isn't easy.
You're a wonderful woman.






- If it's okay, tomorrow night.






- You're a wonderful woman.



















You don't take me seriously for a second, do you?














































My friend and neighbor.

Our names are bordered by each other.









- Unfortunately, not very well.




You're young, you're good, you're happy in marriage.






















He married a woman he didn't love.













But you can hear everything here, can't you?




















Wouldn't it be better if we broke up?






Missed the opportunity to be a useful charming woman.












Good morning, madam.














































Let us raise our glasses and once again promise ourselves to remain faithful to this goal, this ethical principle, which is both the basis for our country &apos; s healthy morals, and to preserve it in life and work.



















I'm sorry, but I'm a little surprised that a woman might be offended by this confession.




















- And you won't be offended, darling?

Good evening.
- Good evening.












"Your wife described you so nicely to me that I wondered how best to apply your abilities."























It's not the right time to say it the way you should talk to women like you.


Your husband's gonna be late at work.
Your friend is busy with his concert.













Why aren't you at work?

The chief told me to do a rehearsal tonight.


























Are you happy? You did everything you wanted to do tonight.














I told you, the job starts at nine o'clock.

Good morning. Please give me the day off.






























You stood up on a cloudy meadow this morning, a shot was fired, and the survivor restored his honor.
















































It's better than here anyway, so let's go.












































- Buy some friends.




























It's better to stay here than run in a tin coffin.












You have good cigarettes.


It's a good tank.





























































































































































That's a good picture.
































































































































We have to go forward like it's true.



































































































- All right, Sergeant, very good!




































- That's good.
- Okay?
That's so much better!





















- Yeah, we can learn from each other. Right.




















But when you have a wife and a kid, you laugh a lot more.






























- We make the best cheese in the village.



There is no second village like this, and no cheese is better than ours.
My friends, you should have tasted it!
























































































































I know how you feel, maybe even better than you.
























The second one told us the truth.










































I'll eat oatmeal in the morning.














- It's a good thing the Krauts had mines. - Yes.






























- Okay.




































- Okay, but don't get hot, okay?


























- I can't think of a better education.





























No! No! I'd rather live my life in this filthy hole than run off to fight for something I don't believe in.




































































- It's gonna be okay, Jim.












As they say, "All good things will come to an end."

































































































































She had a lot of friends, but I don't know them.











Maybe even better than she is.






- Thank you, darling.
























Ask the restaurant owners. They remember Miss Jacqueline.

























A beautiful woman in a fur coat came out of her.



































He's a good guy, miss.

I'm a good guy, but nobody listens to me.































- I don't have any money right now, but I'm gonna get a job and...
- Lady, this job costs money.








All right, Mr. Redo.









































I didn't always tell the truth.

- It's hard for a kid to explain.
- I'm not a kid.











Look, you don't have to look for Jacqueline with your job.











































































A woman on 52nd Street.
















I didn't want to treat you like a child.


We're friends.



- I got you a job.
- A job?
Remember when you said you got along with the kids?







Good people, I think.




- Wait, Dr. Jud?

- Dr. Jud?











Doctor, Mr. Ward is free.











































We'll show Dad tonight.









Dr. Jud.
- Dr. Jud?


















Dr. Judd, why are you so excited?























Last night, Mr. Jason Hoag... gave me a lot of compliments right here.











































- I brought my friends.













































Dear Miss Gibson.




Honey, we were very close friends.












At least you knew about Dr. Judd.







It's not the best.







I'd like to know what books my friends read so they don't make a mistake buying.
The book is the best gift ever.





- Yes, Dr. Louis Judd.












I found out that Mrs. Redie and Dr. Judd read the same book.

- What's Dr. Judd's specialty?





















What does she do after work?


































































































She just went to see a doctor.
















Okay.























I thought I was your friend, Mary.
Friends don't say goodbye like that.



















































Love and understanding don't make a poet a good detective.




























Not because of women?


























































There's my old friend.





A man who knows that he can't get the woman he loves wants her for his friend.
We're friends, aren't we, Gregory?














Bye, darling.






































And all this time... we were friends.














- Maybe they're her friends.








You'd better go up to your room and wait for us.

















































Okay, Jason.










Do you have any proof that good is better than evil?












Mary, Dr. Judd called.









































These friends of yours asked me not to say they came by.





They're not really my friends.




















































Here I am, practically a child, but I would never read what you're reading.









































You know, she's a really amazing woman.


























Well, let's go downstairs, darling.



Why, darling? Who are you going to send a telegram to?















































Really, Dad.












Families always spoil younger children.









- Really?









It's my job.















- Okay. It's a little weak, but it's pretty good.



- My husband's a doctor, if anything.





Come on, kids.






- Sick? - You're not sick, are you?
























































- Really?







There'd be enough presents for the kids.







- You shouldn't have bothered, really.


































































Really good. Emeralds are the most beautiful thing in the world.








Really.














Okay, I'll go into town in the morning and open the bill.





























Herbert's friend Joe.

















I'm sorry your mother isn't better.
- Thank you, darling. Here you go.





It'll be good for the kids.










- Best way to commit murder.


It's true, isn't it?































I'm not a kid anymore.


Nice little barn.










- We didn't touch her. Really.





























You don't want to read that.






You better go to bed, baby.















I had to eat in bed for a while when the kids showed up, but I never liked it.
I can't stand the world in the morning.

Well, I don't mind pampering you the first morning, but you're the only person in this town who eats breakfast at 10:30.












A young man called this morning. He said his name was Sin and he wanted to interview us all.



















Emmy, women are stupid.





- Good morning, Uncle Charlie!
- Good morning, Charlie.



But the truth, the way Mr. Gregham said it, wasn't like spying.























Yeah, right?



















- Good morning, Charlie.
- Hey, Marge. - Good morning, Charlie.










Any good banker can handle this, huh, Charlie?

- Okay. We know what banks are.






























































































Well, okay. But I insist that you wait until I clean up the house.












































Mr. Sanders, if you really want a picture of me with an egg, you're gonna have to wait until I blow up the butter and sugar.



- Okay.





I really don't understand what you wanted to see here.













Okay, I'm sure he's not there.












You can leave him alone with the job.





Typical family is the best.






But your mother said he didn't come until last night.
































I want to help your job, but I can't bake pies all the time.


Can I borrow your daughter for the evening?



Anna will be better.








- Okay. Goodbye.




Looks like he's a good young man.










- Much better, thank you.

























Okay, I'm a detective, and I'm pretty useless.

































You'll keep quiet because you're a good girl. Because it's so good that it helped. If they knew it was your uncle.















But it's so good outside, I've decided to get some fresh air before I go to bed.
You better go home.



Okay.




























Okay.





































- How are you feeling, darling?
- It's good now.



































Roger wanted to sit next to you. I thought it was fair for the kids to change.
































































In front of women like me.

Women have a lot to do in towns like this.



And what do their wives do, these useless women? You can meet them every day in fancy hotels, singing money, losing money to bridge, playing day and night, smelling like money.

Terrible, shrivelled, fat, greedy women.







For God's sake, don't say that about women in front of our club!





Good evening, Mrs Newton.
- Good evening, Mr. Oakley.
- Good evening.





Dinner later every night.












I got a better idea when I shaved. Grab your legs.
















- You run around the streets all night.



































I lost Ken's job.











Why? We're old friends.



















- The most amazing and the best.



















You wake up every morning and you know nothing in the world will bother you.









































































Good morning, Mr. Sinham.

























That would be better.




































I just can't figure out if she's making them up, or she really knows.


They only write the truth.







- Simple flowers are the best.


Southern women are full of charms.














- Really?


















We can finish the job.















- Really? If you tell your father you're marrying a detective, he won't mind?




























I wish we were friends.
I know we're friends.




Okay.








I love my job, but I didn't like it that night.
I hated her that night.




































Okay.


Honey!

































His job at the bank?
























Too bad the kids have to sit on your lap.





Kids are gonna make a great deal of space between them.















Dad's gonna take the kids.








Joe, hurry up, darling!



















Charlie! Honey!




Anna, don't, darling.





I'm here, darling.




- Joe, call Dr. Phillips.





It's a good thing I was passing by.



















Really.





















Joe, darling, will you help the guests?



















- Emmy. To our extraordinary guest who gave the best speech in our city, for this great guy, Mr. Oakley.



Looks like the best of them abroad.








Oh, Emmy, honey, I didn't mean to ruin your party.






I made a deal with Dr. Phillips about my modest donation to the children.













- The kids are very grateful to you, too!




Okay.




Okay.
























It's better for your mother. It's better for everyone.


- I remember when we were kids...































Although, to our great regret, full restoration of the original is impossible... we do not want to deprive the audience of the opportunity to learn about this valuable work.






















You're lucky, there's gonna be a great show tonight.



























What's your name? You'd better kill me.






I wish you'd put so much energy into the fight.






Okay.

















You're better than me.




Teacher, we have a good relationship.


What, a fight means a good relationship?





































That's good.















































Our school will be officially recognized as the best kung fu school if we win. The police are gonna hire my students.

That's what I got this morning.




















































Yano trained him that night.


One early morning...



When a woman turned to God.



























































































































Luckily, he's still a kid.
























- Write, okay?








































































































I'm sorry, I don't hit women either.





























































You're supposed to have a car, and one taxi licence is like three lycées of a driver.... ...which means, by sacrificing three drivers, I won't have a job for a year.










- Yeah, that woman.



- Pay the bill, okay?



He didn't understand what I meant by you, the best friend a man could have.









Now we're going home, okay?







































All right, give me some more!

Your husband is telling the truth when he calls you "The Queen of Snorting."
















































- Let's go get the doctor.






















Okay, then I broke my leg, my shoulder, my head, everything!





















- Hurry up, Doctor!

Tell Luckini that the papers will be ready tomorrow morning.









I had such a good day today...

- It's the best medicine.


Watch the window, okay?






- But oxygen's gonna help you, isn't it, Doctor?









- No, Doctor, he didn't hurt himself.






The strike was very strong, Doctor.








Isn't that right, Doctor?





























- Of course, Doctor...



- Tell me, Doctor, is this serious?




Don't worry, and have a nice evening.


- Have a nice evening, and don't forget to wipe his head.
- Nice evening.



I'm a good actor, aren't I?




- Even the doctor believed it!





And you're really gonna have to wipe it with warm water.

"The woman was insulted in the market..."






- When we get the money, you don't have to go to work anymore.






























- Good morning, Toto.














- Very good.












- Good morning.
- Good morning, how can I help you?


























She called me from Chivitavecki last night.

Ah, women!




- Okay.





















Pretty good money for the early morning!

- Truth be told, we were just fighting.










































Very good.



















































- That's good.


























- Nannarela and I are old friends.






















- But we're not gonna talk about it tonight.
- Tonight?




I'm good.
- Good?









































































Have a nice evening, Signorina.

























Make good wine, we're going out on me tonight!

- Hey, friends!




















- Good evening, Nannarella.

















Okay, I don't drink.


















- The two of us are making a good baking.



















I'm so sorry, have a nice evening.




















I talked to my friend...
- Good evening, Toto.
- Good evening.











































































When you have money, all your friends come out suddenly.



We're starting a new life tomorrow, no more work, and we're gonna have a butler.








- So it's true?






























































I'll be right back, just a couple of friends.




Okay, but my wife has a weak heart, she could get sick.



- Really, tonight?

Really?



























- Who's the best driver in Rome?




- Really.




Very small, really.































- Last night, I even met Augusto.















Truth be told, I thought I'd lost.








Okay, you can stay here and think about it and talk to the judge tomorrow.












- The end is better, isn't it?




- Okay, go on.







Okay, let's start at the beginning.






- You'd better remember!











- Really, my name will be everywhere.


















Because you didn't see the faces of those women when you came for him. I saw it, and I started crying.


It's true, and I'm not ashamed.





















- Really?











Ah, your job!








Good evening, Father.



You've become a beautiful woman.







Your father's a good man, and I don't hate him...






- Well done, it's gonna be okay.












- Okay.



- Okay, okay.




































Good evening.




























































- Toto's my friend.













































Good morning, Toto.

Okay?

Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?






The suitcase was in the stable all night, did you see it?



























- My mother's a woman!





























































- I'm sure it'll be okay.






















His work, which may seem simple and quiet to you, but which is actually very difficult and exhausting!



















I swear to tell the truth!








- Yes. - Is it true he gave you the ring?




























And now he's probably gonna lose his license, but he's a good guy.
























































But the middle son didn't answer anything and went his way.





























































- The master has a good heart. He'll be a good heir to you.









Okay.










It's a good thing we're together.



Honey.












- Okay, sir.



















Don't tell me she's a woman.


























Honey, are you sure you're gonna be happy here?











I'm his best friend.


You're a good actress, aren't you?


Now you're gonna play the best part in your life.



Would you, Stephen, marry this woman?


























When you're under stress, you get out of work.



You're gonna have to put yourself out of work.























She's going back to her old job.





































- I'll start in the morning.











If I don't change him, I'll lose my job.
And if I lose my job, I lose my girlfriend.


- A job?



















I need a haircut, don't I?















And a woman has to go to a women's college.
And the kid has to go to the children's college.






















No, honey, no.

























































- Okay.


Okay.










Unfortunately, all the best rooms are already occupied.


















Really?

































And maybe you'll find a way to use it. Have a nice day. Thank you.

















- Okay.








Okay, kids.
I mean, very well, lady.






























Oh, good.












































Isn't this redhead good?
















































We're close friends.
In fact, we're more than friends, we're... we're practically engaged.





Wait a minute, Willis, darling.
Willis, darling.









- Good evening, Willis.
- Good evening, darling.







Good boy.


I missed you this summer, darling.











- Don't worry, darling.




Whatever you say, darling.

There's gonna be a double session tonight.

Oh, very good, darling.


- Okay.




Good boy.
Oh, so we wish each other a good night.





























If I met that woman again, I'd get the whole truth out of her.






Steve, it's me, your best friend.

- My dear friend...












Really?








Okay, George?
















Did you find out anything about that woman?














- All right, maracas.
















- Go on, darling.


















































Your friends are kind of tall.















The secret to good posture is pride.
Every day a woman must say to herself:





































Well, we're gonna have to face it, darling. It's parent's day tomorrow, isn't it? And despite all our efforts, Mr. Elliot is still here.



Perhaps if some very attractive young woman had asked Mr. Elliot out tonight and detained him after the breakout... we would have invited Professor Evans to jog by the gate to rule him out when he got back.



































We're gonna sit in front of him for a long winter night, I guess, something like that.









Kids like to ride the railings.
You want kids, don't you?
Yes, darling.


You want that, don't you?
Well, yes, darling, of course I do.













Nothing really happened between you and that woman?



Really, there were three red-haired boys there.


No, of course not, darling.









- But it's all over now, isn't it?









Oh, I... I don't know, honey.

It's better to turn around here, darling.

- Oh, listen, darling.









- Oh, you're not kidding, are you?



















- Okay.


























Hurry up, darling.





Honey, hurry up.










Are you cold, darling?








Okay, I'll get you some slippers.





- Really?


No, darling.



























Really?


- Okay.





If you're very cold, you better go home and get warm.




















It's better there.










- He's a good, honest young man.


















I'll explain everything, really...







I set up the dean, threw a spot on college because of me, Caroline lost her job.


























Oh, Steve, darling, I'm so sorry.








Come here, children.

























You're my friend.





Really, Mr. Reid, there's nothing to worry about.






Amy hit him because he hurt the butterfly, and she was her friend.

Amy has too many passions and too few friends. It bothers me.


I understand you're worried about her, and Amy's a very sensitive and sensitive kid.


And the kids feel very well.


No, darling.





Oh, look at them, darling, aren't they cute?



Well, anyway, she's doing well with her imagination.








She's my baby.


- I'm not a jealous woman.





I love Amy too much to let her lose herself in a fake world where butterflies can become friends.

I know, honey, I get it.






We guarantee her good time.










- Yes, darling.

In my day, the kids came to the birthday parties before the adults were ready to meet.

Ollie, this is for the kids to play.
But the kids aren't here yet.


Okay, Ollie.













But, ma'am, the truth is, I gave them to Amy to send her out.





































I wanted to be a good girl.





I'm gonna play with the other kids and I'm not gonna sit alone and I'm gonna tell the truth.
- Exactly, darling.

- Good morning, Edward.
- Good morning, Amy.




























It's the best spell against witches.

It's nice and cool here.




















You look good and hot, good and uptight.
Did you play very well with your friends?



He wants you to play with the other kids with all his heart.




You know, when you're good and you play with other kids when you're not squeezing and hanging around in the clouds, your daddy's willing to do anything to make you happy.
Now, run and look for the other kids.

I wanted to tell you about the other kids.













- It's true!




- But it's true!


Run and play with the other kids and don't tell me any more stories.






Did you listen to the baby until the end?








But I'm pretty sure you're ruining our baby.











Looks like she was playing with other kids.













Are you done, darling?

- All right, then let's go.




She's really gonna have nice dreams tonight.
She's been such a good girl all day.
- What did you say, darling?




- What song, darling?

The song my friend wanted me to teach.


- Yes, darling.

- Many times, darling.

















- Are they good?
- I really don't know.
































A house connected with people's thoughts and work.




























You'd be a good audience.





















This woman is an impostor.



Okay.







It's not the best place she should be.






Good story.





















Let the baby stay.



- Okay.

On dark nights on frightful nights, you can hear him.






























You're just a woman who looks after me.











My friend.

My friend.

My friend.

My friend.







- Good morning, Mommy.
- Good morning, darling.































I'm your friend.








Will you always be my friend?








Amy and her friend.

Amy and her friend.
Amy and her friend.















You'll be the friend who came to visit me.
I'll show you my kids.
Your kids?


- Okay, Amy.








All my kids are asleep right now.


She's very good.

She's good sometimes.

It's hard for her to be good.





- Thank you, darling.

You have to put them under the tree until morning.
- Okay, honey.
































Oh, my dear Mrs. Reid!






You don't open your presents until Christmas morning?






What's this song gonna be, friends?



























You'd better come in.
Run, darling.











From that woman.









































Why, Daddy, why do you know my friend, too?
You can't know this woman.

Why do you call her your friend?

Why did you call her your friend?
Because she's my friend.

The baby's shaking.












And I want you to tell me if your friend is in the garden right now.







Listen, darling. I want you to look again.




If you deny it, if you insist on your being a woman, what you call a friend now in the garden, then... I'm afraid I'm gonna have to punish you.


Okay, Amy.




- It's better if you don't interfere.





As soon as the kids play the meadows, the invisible friend comes along.




As soon as the kids come to play the meadows, the invisible friend is the one who's a little lonely leaving his house-- the nearby forest.





It's just an invisible friend.
- Kids like to make stuff up.





I was married to a woman that Amy now calls her friend and whose picture she identified.


You don't know this woman.








But you shouldn't let it keep you away from your child.


Why did I come here to be your friend?



















- You've never had kids.



You have no special knowledge and qualifications to work with children, nothing but a feeling of fatherhood.
I'm a teacher and I teach kids.



There's a whole chapter about children like Amy.

Kids only have one way to escape.

Some kids make up their own dogs or cats.
And other kids or older comrades.








You have to be her friend so she doesn't have to make other friends.

Her friend will disappear in a moment when her need for friendship is satisfied with a living man.



I want to be her friend.
There's no better time than now.
Maybe she's upstairs right now complaining about her grief to a friend who doesn't even exist.



























You poor lost woman.













































My friend.
My friend.
My friend.
My friend.





Amy, now you and I, we're gonna be friends.


You're gonna be okay, aren't you?

Your friend in the garden?


And I see her, too, darling.

- You're late for work. - Yeah, it's a little late.












Dear Keyes...




















Insurance agent, 35 years old, single, no big deal. Until this evening, of course.

I killed him for money and for a woman.
I didn't get the money. And the woman, too.














































I was just thinking about this woman upstairs. I wanted to see her again, and closer, so that this stupid ladder wouldn't get in the way.






















Are their rates better?




The Auto Club is a good company, but mine is as good as mine.



- You're a good agent, aren't you?

















































































Sign it, it'll get better.
































And it was true, you old lizard. You were always yelling. You weren't happy.










































- Better than Walter.






















- She should be enough for the doctors.












Sometimes we sit all night without exchanging a word.





- Really? Don't doubt it.
















































































































It's good here, Walter.



















































































It's better than living like this.




















Everything was fine, except the witness that Phyllis found.






Scared of nonsense, we'd be broke. Right, darling?







Okay.











































I think it's enough for one night.



















































He studied for a doctor and worked nights as a ticket at the cinema.
He dropped out of college and lost his job because of his insolence.




















He's our friend.
I don't have any friends.










And he could have been better than he looked.

































































































- This job requires brains and character, a hundred agents.
It's a tough job for us.
- I don't like paperwork.
- Paperwork?













Better put a finger on the phone buttons for a little more money?






He's on the train tonight.






It's gonna be even better with crutches, isn't it?













































How about this job?






















I'm not going anywhere today. Okay.























- You okay, honey?

- Take your time, darling, there's time.








































Bye, darling.














Palo Alto is a good town.












































I've been working all night.





It sounds weird, Keyes, but it's true.


I haven't had a longer night in my life. But it was even worse this morning: it was in the papers.




















































- Nice work, Mr. Neff!
There's no point blaming Neff, he's the best agent in the firm.




















































































Good game, Mr Norton.





























My nerves calmed down that night.










Okay.
































































































































































That night, I took her to a restaurant on Alvero Street, where we couldn't be seen.




It was dynamite, whether it was real or not.



































































































There's a good osteopath here, I'd like to see him.






The truth pops up sooner or later.





...love is love or hate, they're drawn to each other.



They can't get away from each other.









































































I tracked her down, he comes to her in the evenings.

















You did your best, Keyes. After work, when you caught me in the lobby.































I found out that on the night of the murder, he had been at his house since 19:15 and never left.




We checked where Zacetti was on the night of the murder, and we found that there was no exact data.









































My friend has a theory.

















It doesn't matter if it's true or not.
































Is your plan for tonight better?














































































































He was your aunt's best friend, he'll help you.






















- Okay, Signor Anton.























Dear Maestro, I don't know when we'll meet.



































Honey.












































We're all friends, and we often stop by each other's house.












That's so great, isn't it?

















Look at this morning.









A play infested with the feeling of early morning.
- This morning.




















I've always wanted to live... in a quiet, quiet house on a little London square... with a woman I love.





















If that's true, I'm happy.
It's true.
I'm very happy with you.





Good morning, narcissists.
Good morning, tulips.










- Good morning.
- Good morning.


Good morning.
















































Interesting woman.


Her best role.





































"Dear Miss Alquist, I beg you for your last meeting.








































































All right, sir.
















- Really, sir?




- Okay, ma'am.

- Okay, sir.
Good girl.













Always, darling.
It's the best gift ever.













- I'm kidding, honey.







Okay, ma'am.


























- Are you telling the truth?




































Of course, darling.





































- My dear, it's nothing.























































































All right, sir.















You know, I still think she was... the most beautiful woman in the world.

- You saw a woman like her.



If you want to meet a beautiful woman, you don't have to cover up the investigation, okay?


























All right, sir.















Sleep, darling.





















- Okay, madam.
















All right, sir.
















Do you really think Nancy despises you?

Really?

















All right, sir.

















Really?






























- Really?





























- Kiss the Bible... and swear you're telling the truth.
























- Okay.






















- If that's true, then please be gentle with me.








You leave every night, and I'm so scared alone.











I hope you feel better in the morning.






What are you doing tonight?






With one friend, sir.
I hope you know that these friends sometimes let themselves...












Good evening.
Good evening, lady.





























































- Okay, ma'am.

Do you need a cab for tonight?

- It's gonna be a lovely evening.












Honey, put on your coat.


- Have a nice evening.






































































































Good evening.

























































Sir, I don't know what that means, but it's around 3:00 in the morning... I was standing on the corner of Thornton Square... and suddenly I saw our friend again.

























- Nope. He leaves every night?










"People who look for entertainment every night can hardly...

"People who look for entertainment every night can hardly appreciate... the charm of an opera or a concert."








You want to help her, don't you?



I really can't.








































It's true.


I've been thinking about it, but nowhere else did the gas turn on any night.























































"Dear Miss Alquist, I beg you to meet me.


"Dear Lady Delroy" is my husband's handwriting.







































All right, sir.





















































































Mrs. Anton, you'd better go to bed.















































Really?
Isn't that right, Gregory?
































































































That's good.



























- Isn't that true?
Good morning.



























Okay, Father.






You'd be ashamed, you'd play with kids, you'd hit glass, and an adult would already.

















You set a bad example for your children. You cornered me.

I'm really sorry.




















Okay.




















Goodbye, goodbye.




















This is Father O'Dod, my old friend.













No, I think it's best to talk about it in person.
Yeah, much better.


















And that's good.















- He left early this morning.






- Good morning, Father.














The basket is good, too.




Isn't that right, sweetheart?
- To give someone a real treat.














This is my old friend, Father O'Dod.











































































Good morning, Father.
- Good morning.








































It's a good bird.



















Okay, Father, goodbye.














Eleven children.




And if Tony and his friends don't drop out of business, I'm afraid they could go to reform school.















- Good evening, Father.




Well, okay, Father.





- Well, okay.


Okay.



























I went for a walk last night, and what do you think I saw?


















Of course, Mrs. McCarthy is a good woman, but she's still a woman.






- Okay, McCarthy.












































- I'll get a job.


Good?




























You have a good voice, but you don't have to do it like that. It's better to put all the emotions into the words.


































Oh, so you need a job.

- Really?

Mrs. Scaponi has 11 children, and he'll have 12 in October.

No, I'm not looking for that kind of job.












Being a good wife and mother is a good start for you, as for your mother. But you have to start somewhere, Father. Nonsense.































- Okay, Father.














Oh, 'Malley's definitely good, okay? ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪

























































- He's got a good bass.







































Yeah, maybe he's a little impulsive, but I'm sure he wants what's best.




































































































And he started talking about how good you are, about your successes and how confident he is of you.





























Okay, Father.
















Okay, okay. Take care of it.


Okay.





Okay, but call me as soon as you know something.












Okay.






















Well, if you insist, I'd like to try a little. - Okay.






















































Don't forget this morning's rehearsal.





How to raise children.






- To work, and I'm already late.






























Okay, Tommy, I promise.

Meet Chuck O'Malley, my old friend.














I wrote the answer the same night.




























Okay, Mrs. Quimp. What happened?

You better, Father.




























It's better now.
















- And I remember being a woman.









No job, no money, I thought I was gonna get kicked out.





















And I practically got her a job.




You have a good piano.














































That's a good idea.

Really?

Good morning, Father.


- Good morning, Father.


- Ah. Looking for a job? - No, not at all.







- That's a good one, isn't it?












































Timmy's gonna give it to one publisher, his friend.































Okay.




















Oh, that's good.








































You know he quit his job?

























So quit your job, run away and get married.





When they found out I'd been flying 600 hours, they hired me right away.












This is Father O'Dod, my friend.

















Very good.











I mean, even though the song is good, as I told you, Father, it's too good for us.







































































Old man, good friend of Father O'Malley, also involved, Father Fitzgibbon his name.




























I wish you'd come with us, Father.









- Well, I guess it'd be nice to go for a walk.


































Really?



































Doctors!















But at my age, it's good if you even remember that word.




















But there's good news.
















Much better, Chuck.





- No, I'm better.







Great woman, Miss Linden.







































So you're really leaving?






- Really?






















- It's good, really. ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪





Stubborn, isn't it?







Everyone's waiting for you to say goodbye. Okay, Father.




































































Be until 9:00 a.m. my favorite.





And before the next stop, a triple carcass for my friends, Fite Brinkman, coke, and Jens Tersen, a sailor with Padua!











- Okay.









You'd better get some good rum.
- Good?






















Hannes... there wasn't enough of you in this swim, friend.








































Nice tile.






































- This morning.






























- Good morning.
















Good morning.























Do you... have a baby from my brother?






- Yeah, I know a lot of people there. You'll get a job soon.








I'm leaving tonight. If you want to find me:









It's a good thing your dad didn't see it.


































But I'll be back by morning.






































There's scary sea wolves, there's nothing for kids to do.






"Honey, wait a little while, I'll be back with you in a year."

























Sweetheart, isn't it?































You really think I'm nowhere without you?






You really think I'm nowhere without you?




- Tonight?

Well, with this, work.
I know your job.









Good morning.




- Good morning.



















































Don't laugh when an old woman gives you good advice.
What an old woman, Mrs. Kazbom!

























- No, not wine, better beer.




















































Were there any other kids? - Nope.




























































Play something fun.



What are you doing tonight?


































































































It's a good thing I wasn't around.














They're making powder for Dr. Atker's baking.















Amazing case, and my friends say I'm awfully insolent.



















































I think we're gonna be great together.














































































- That's too bad, isn't it?














- "Dear Hannes!" This is for you.




























































































But it was nice, though, wasn't it?









Especially women.




















Good evening.
- Good evening, Fite!





You don't know them? These are Hannes' friends.















That's too bad, isn't it?





















































The consul wanted to put me in the Ganza theater at any rate, but... it's for the best.






"Good weather and good luck!" Everything.
































Hamburg is the best city in the world, even better than Cologne.











Okay, that's not a big deal.










You're lucky with women, buddy, so lucky with women, buddy! You're not handsome, but charming, not smart, not a hero,
You're just a man that women like.





Then I probably wouldn't come here, would I?

































































































Good evening!















'Cause there can't be anything better than a hamburg girl for money.

'Cause there can't be anything better than a hamburg girl for money.



- Okay.






And you, my dear, will stay here.
Good weather and good luck, son!








































































"There are no women's heirs in the land of Sali."


And those German women who despise their depraved conduct,
The law established that in the land, women had been deprived of their inheritance rights.











































































Good morning, Lieutenant Bardolph.





And we're all going to go to France as friends.















Think only of giving a shelter and a table to some ten decent women who honestly earn a needle's bread, and everyone's gonna start screaming that you have a brothel.


I'm gonna let you out of your gut. That's the whole point.






I'm gonna cut your throat better than today, so tomorrow.















So why the hell are we cutting each other's throat?

















You told the truth, Nim:

































































- And women.



He once said he'd fall into the devil's paws because of women.
Yeah, it happened, it touched women;













































































Let's think about it. The siege of the city is before you!


Let's get back to it, folks, in the hole,










Fathers who, like Alexander, fought hard here from morning to night and hid their swords in the shears only when they had nothing to cut.
































By God, they're gonna blow us all up if they don't follow the best orders.
The siege is entrusted to Duke Gloucester, and he has relied on one Irishman in everything; it seems to be a very brave man.
- It's Captain McMorris, isn't it?











Did the bomb squad stop working?

The work was abandoned, the retreat was sounded.






Honestly, it's gonna be very good, my kindest captains.









I swear by Mass, before I close my eyes for the night, I will do good service or lie down with my bones.












Gentlemen! You don't understand each other.






























I think I'm a good student.







Very well, madam.
























































































After all, to tell you the truth, my troops are exhausted by disease, and have been reduced in number.















And tomorrow morning, we'll drive them further.








It's the best armor I've ever had.


It's the best horse in Europe.
Isn't the morning ever coming?











In fact, Prince, this is the best, most beautiful horse in the world.











I'm afraid a lot of them will die in the morning.






The Dauphin can't wait till morning.















He probably doesn't want the morning like we do.








Give them a good piece of beef and a good sword in their hands, and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils.





Singed a rooster, and a sleepy morning clock on the tower was punctured for three hours.



Greetings with a humble smile, calling them brothers, countrymen, friends.


The truth, Gloucester, is a great danger.


























- Are you a friend of his?























We're the only ones who don't want the morning to come.






























And some will curse fate, others will call on a doctor, and others will call on their wives, who have stayed at home in poverty, the fourth will grieve for their unpaid debts, and the fifth will grieve for their orphaned children.
















But when we're all chopped up, they're gonna buy him out, and we're not gonna get better out of it.











For life, for soul, for wives, and for children, and for debts, and for sins, for all the king is responsible!


























There's a dawn waiting for me, friends, and a fight.







































Who will see the battle of old age every year, when he gathers his friends, will say to them:



































War is a hard work for us;





























Tell me, am I not telling the truth?

































I'll tell you as a friend, Captain Hower.


















You said the truth, "When the Lord wills, I will die."











- Okay.
- Yeah, drink is a good thing.








I wish the Welsh fist would teach you good English behavior.





Well, that's good! I'm gonna be a pimp, and I'm gonna be a pocket thief.






















So we in our homes and our children, for lack of time, forgot science to serve the country.





































And no, if I tell you I'm gonna die, it's gonna be true.



And the redbeans, who are clever enough to capture women with poems, are also clever and slip away from them.








No, Kate: But if you love me, you'll love a friend of France.







With the permission of your honor, your French language is better than my English language.
No, Kate, honestly, my conversation in your language and yours in mine are worth each other.






And tonight, in your bedroom, you're gonna ask your girlfriend about me and, of course, you're gonna fight the one thing you like most about me.


























Your Majesty entendre is better than que moi.




Dear Kate, you and I can't be trapped in a weak fence of local customs.







Take it, my son. May the enmity of the long-standing two kingdoms, whose shores are pale from envy, be quiet for the good of one another. Let your friendship grow;






Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather, this song is dedicated to you.
Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather, we love you.






Very well, Sylvia, don't be upset.




Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather...








Come on, darling. The kids are waiting for us.

I'm not arguing, honey.



Honey, don't say that.











Don't forget the first page is written in the morning!




































You'd understand that knowing the future isn't so good.











































Right, my friend?




My friend, she can't hear you. She only hears the voice of Chigolini.









Tell me, my friend... is that your handwriting?

That's a question they ask us every night.

I'm sorry, my friend, you'll lose your bet.












My friend, that's what you have to negotiate with her.

Wait a minute, my friend. Chigolini hypnotized this girl. Chigolini doesn't know when she's gonna get out of hypnosis.





























































You better go home and get some sleep!







- You start her in the late morning...




Tonight was fog, it's cold in the morning...


Still looking for a job.












It was Wednesday morning.



Surprising snowfall at 8:00 a.m. for the season.





...at 8:00 a.m.































































































We lost, my friend. Exactly 3670.
















































































Stevens is my best reporter.



Tell him the truth.
You told me what was gonna happen this morning.






















With a good lawyer.




I'll put you in jail for the rest of your life, Stevens, unless you tell me the truth.
- Larry, for God's sake, tell him the truth!



I read about it last night in the paper.








And I had it last night.
















































So your niece is telling the truth? Did you predict that?











Professor Chigolini! Why don't you tell me what's going to happen tonight or tomorrow?


It's true, my friend, you're right... sometimes she can see things like this.




Will any crime be committed tonight - arson, theft, murder?














I see a woman, she's coming...










It's not worth ten years of your life, is it?





She didn't bring you anything good, did she, Larry?




















Tomorrow morning, Union Bank.

















Why risk your life because of a woman I don't know, but I know she can't be saved?











All right, Stevens, all right! We'll wait at the bank.



























No, but I heard her prediction for tonight.














Some woman just threw herself into the water!









Better get a boat.


















Oh Sylvia, darling, your life was in danger!


So we were trying to save each other!





































That's better.








Well, if you were interested, I could say I'm a very busy man. I don't have time for women at all!
Last night in the cab, you weren't acting like a man who wasn't interested in women!




Are you saying all this happened after last night?












But I don't have secrets, I'm telling you the truth!
I didn't even read that paper yesterday. But this morning...


- Really?













































I was with a friend of mine, Inspector Mulruni.




- Really?





Sylvia, are you awake, darling?

































- Could have been a good reporter...











Didn't you try to save a woman in the river last night?






Be a friend, Larry, tell me, how did you end up at the bank at the right time?

Look, hero, and on the bridge, right when that woman jumped?

Don't tell me you just walked past the Opera last night...


- You really want to know?



Tell the truth, Larry.









If all this is true, why don't you get a million as a wedding gift?





















She's not gonna do you any good, Larry.





























You won't introduce me to your friend, Sylvia?








- It's true.











I'm not playing, my dear!




















I'm asking you, darling. I love you.
















































Honey, if we have to get married, let's do it tonight.





























He's awake, doctor, but he's not talking.







































You think you can fool a doctor? Aren't you going to marry her?




Doctor! Nurse!


























Larry, darling, we'll go another time!




Sit down, darling...




- Wait for me here, darling!
No, I'd rather watch him.


































This gentleman's bet, my friend.

















You're a good customer...





















































No, honey, not tonight!
Okay, then tomorrow night.


- Take them, it's better.








































The whole town's been searching where his best reporter is!

















It's a good thing he didn't know he only had time to go home...







How long do you intend to hold on to this job?



























You have the best sense of sensation in town!







Larry has a job.






Don't be nervous, darling.










Sylvia, honey, don't argue if you love me!
















































































It's true.






- Bye, kids.



- Exactly, my friend!



























- Then there's plenty of room for all the kids.




- Look, darling...




- Hey, Doctor!
- I'm not a doctor.
















Tomorrow morning, Morgan Creek will be...










































































Tell me, do you have a dance here tonight?































- Are you going to the dance tonight?

Okay, but don't be too late, Trudy.











Three movies at the cinema tonight.

I'm terribly sorry, Norval, but I can't tonight.





Some of them actually serve, some of them don't, and...




I understand it takes a lot of free time.



















































What kind of military is that? Kiss-boy-good-bye work... where's this gonna happen?































Isn't there a dance tonight?



Couldn't the doctor give you anything to calm you down?



























Good evening, Mr. Cokenlocker.





































You can prove it tonight.












- Isn't that right?

They're all beautiful, young guys, from good families, and we can't send them to death... in the red light of missiles, under bombs in the air... without anyone to say goodbye to them, can we?


















































Okay, okay!












This is the best group of guys I've ever seen.










































Do you realize it's 8:00 in the morning?
8:00 a.m.! Ooh!








































Where did you go with my daughter until morning?


















- Good morning, Mr. Schottish.
- Good morning, Norval.



















It's not bad on Sunday morning, either.


















































Thank you, Doctor.




Thank you, Doctor.




Thank you, Doctor.










And they say they have beautiful kids, too.





















Responsibility for marriage registration has always been a woman &apos; s business.


It depends on the woman, knock him down and tie him to himself, to his family, and bring him here in the presence of two witnesses immediately, if not earlier.

Doesn't your friend remember the fiancé's name?















- It'll cost five dollars, which you'll kindly hang on your friend when he buys you flowers...
Please don't tell anyone about our friend.










I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about our friend.
That's good. Tell her she got married, but when she has to prove...
Are you saying our friend is a liar?



My ideas are probably not very good, anyway.

Our friend could just marry someone, and then one day...








No one believes in good if they have a chance to believe something bad.















8:00 A.M., isn't it?



- You'd better marry him.










Wait till you get married and have half a dozen daughters... and see what you say when some people bring them home at 8:00 a.m.






Either they leave their husbands... and come home with four children and turn your house... or their husbands lose their jobs, and they all sit on their parents' necks.

I think it's better this way. I have no claim against you.


















A lot of women wear it in the women's army corps.
The woman's place in the house.







If I didn't know you so well... and I didn't know that nothing could shake you... this guy could have sworn, you gave him a hint.










































When I was a kid, my parents said, "What's going to grow up to be?"
























































Maybe I can find a better way to explain it to you.












































































Don't you know that Iongda woman doesn't want to talk?
A woman doesn't want to talk?
A woman doesn't want to talk when she's dead.
- Where'd you get all that crap about women?































Very few like Norwell, darling.










- Funny thing happened this morning, Norval.










It's none of my business at what time you come home in the morning... or how much you drank...



A job at a bank is like crossing a Niagara Fall on a tight rope.















































Thank you, darling.




Besides, I've always been a very good swimmer, at least that's what the ones who swim well say.

































































Is it because you brought me home that morning?



Either you marry me right now... or you tell him the whole truth... that would be awful.


















So you're gonna go to the movies with me tomorrow night?









Honey!



















































Good evening.






- Do you remember what I told you last night?



- The movie is a very good place to do it.









That's good.













Okay, goodbye, Papa.



- Goodbye, darling.





















































You're good. Sit and say "Uh" and I have to find a name before we get there.
All right, Ignat.



































- Good evening.







Good evening.

Good idea.











It's better now.










- That's better.


















- Okay.








Are you sure you love each other?


Do you want a lot of little kids?





"Do you take this woman, Gertrude Conenlocker...



















- I'm done, darling.




And a small cookbook for you as a gift... with best wishes for those who may have to eat this cooking.
And don't bother with the kids.
I always say a childless house looks like a homeless kid.







































































Good evening, everyone.






















Very good, Norval.

















































































- Nothing but a good kick in the ass.










And you two get ready for good whipping.




















































He didn't do you any good, darling.






You're just a kid.







Trouble with kids when they think they're smarter than their parents.














Why can't it be true?


- I'm having a baby.
You're having a baby.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Are you gonna have a baby?










Well, of course, and don't give a shit about my pension... for 17 years, and go to jail with him!






Dad, that's not good.






The less people know about it, the better it will be for them.














It would cost me a job.













Okay.
- Really?











It's a good thing you're not trying to run away right now.










































Don't you understand that, darling?

























































- Okay, Dad. Which side do you want to hit?











































Anyway, now that I'm back and ready to give up, I think... they're gonna take Mr. Cockenlocker back to work, and everything's gonna be okay?














I gave you very good advice, Norval.
















- Merry Christmas, darling.















Nothing's going to cause indigestion, but there's nothing better than plum pudding with tsukats and nuts.
When I was a kid...
Good evening, Mr. Raffert, and you, Mr. Jones.











Speaking of shit, I'm gonna have to give Bessie a drink tonight, Dad.
















The doctor will come from another town, then he'll come back and forget about you.

It's gonna be okay.




















No, no. Aren't you okay?














































Okay, ask her here.


Women always try to shift the blame for men.







Really?









Well, why are you standing there? Doctor!














































How is she, Doctor?





- All right, let him out.














































































































I think you'd better let me hold her.
I have to do this, but you better get me to do it.
Okay.














I took this job because my bank account was ready to die.




















Okay.














































































Drinks turn a good company into a very good one.


























She was a good girl, but she died.

He's gonna be sorry, isn't he?





























I've got a lot of work to do.

What job?
I only need your services for a few hours tonight.




















My friend's jewels were taken.
































































It's better to go through the dumpster than get information out of you.





























I have friends at City Hall.
It's my job.
























Did your friends at City Hall tell you about the jag, too?




- Okay.


I'm just a humble businessman, and my job is dirty, but I want to see it through.









































- How expensive?


You want to ask, Mr. Marlowe, how could I have been so careless to leave the house tonight in a unique necklace?























Who knew you were wearing that necklace that night?
































- I'm afraid many of Lin's friends are like that.










They gave me back one of the rings, pretty good.










Weird kid.
You're gonna help me, aren't you?
















How do you spend your evenings?







I was hired as a bodyguard and failed my job.




A close friend, someone who knew very well...



I don't think I'm gonna make a good detective, Mr. Marlowe, and I...




















































































- In one of the best dreams.



















- Good, huh?



Your friend didn't pay the rent?





















Dear Mr Marlowe...

















Marriott blackmailed women.
Women liked him.


Someone told him what kind of woman to take care of. He could have made a call later and told the guys where to go.













And I might have assumed that an expensive necklace shouldn't be lost.








There's no need to grab each other's throats, Mr. Marlowe.



















He's using you for dirty work.











































- I'd rather take a nap.















What a nice bed!
























I'm Dr. Saunderborg.


Come on, tell me, Dr. Jekyll!













































- You're not well. I'd rather help you.


- I want you to take my friend.


- I want you to take my friend.










































A red-haired girl, a nose with a hump and a good figure.
















































The last time I saw you, I gave you good advice.
















He uses women who come to him with libido problems.












There's this guy there, he calls himself Dr. Saunderborg.


























- I'm a little tired of this job.







- He's the best.


















She's been gone since yesterday morning.















And while I'm in this, let's understand each other.











She's beautiful, isn't she?

























































I don't want my kids thinking I hit him 20 times to kill him.




The smell of expensive perfume.












































Sorry, honey.









I hate their women, too, especially the blondes from the top league.
Pretty expensive babies who know what they want!


Well played, darling.






It's a good place to hide.
You're good at throwing lambs to wolves, aren't you?












- I can't lie, can I?















-...because he's done me a lot of good.
- What kind of good?









It's a terrible way to work it:




































I wasn't good, not even half.





















Okay, he's here.




- In the morning.
It's better to do everything until it's dawn.







I'd better not show up until tomorrow night.









Good idea.







That's your girlfriend, isn't it?

















































































You're too good to be some detective your whole life.








He wasn't good at all.























It's all true.













It's a good move, but it won't work twice.





You almost got me, sister, because you almost told me the truth.









I forgot to tell you not to kiss a woman when you're wearing that gun.







































































It wasn't a girl, was it?



























She was gonna give, but I didn't finish the job.

























No, that's not much hope, is it?




- Okay.




Good morning, Captain Morgan.













We'll be back tonight, and I don't think we'll go any further than 30 miles.







Good for him.




Oh, good.


He's a real friend.

- You're sick every morning.





- Good morning, Mon Capitaine.
- Good morning.








- Good morning, Mr. Johnson.





Only better.







- Okay.









































































All right, let it go.






















Maybe you're lucky to have women.
- Let's take a walk tonight.
















You fish for 16 days, you catch a couple of fish for which... any good fisherman would give his life, and they both lost their lives.














Okay, huh? - Okay, Eddie.








I'll go to the bank tomorrow morning.



- Good idea...







































What time tomorrow morning?












Friends of my friends.



































We'd better stop them.

















He doesn't think better about you.






- Yeah, that's a good reason.

That's also a good reason... but you're gonna have to get some money somewhere else.










- It's a good thing you didn't give him back.














































Do you really think so?










Eddie's my friend.

You have a good memory for a drinking man.




I'd forget how good that is.













































You're good, you ran away with my girl.























In the morning.


























































That's good.










































































It's better now.



























































































And you were good.














































That's a good idea.

























I'll get a job, maybe.
It's hard to find a job.



















Are you gonna take that case with those guys, Frenchy's friends?
















Well, you're good.



You left you with such a high opinion of women.







But I'm still gonna say you're good, and I wouldn't...












It's much better when you help.
























































Did the doctor see his leg?

They're watching all the doctors who know us.








Are you a doctor?



















If only we could find some good poems.
- Good morning, Cricket.

- Good morning, Sucky.












You took this job, didn't you?




















Maybe it's better this way, Sucky.






























I knew you were a real friend.














































We have work to do.

Work?
What job?






















I'm better now, Harry.









I'm a good man, you know that.
































He didn't say anything about a woman.






































You have to tell me how good you are.

















































Good evening, Mother.
























It's gonna be okay.
I got a job.















I'm more dangerous than any doctor.















You really do bookkeeping?

























- You're not a doctor.

- Where's the doctor?



















We can't call a doctor to keep it public.
Besides, he has as good a chance with me as anyone else.



































That's good.
All right, Sucky.



































We'll talk about it in the morning.


















I'm not a doctor, but I think he looks good.














Good morning.

- Good morning.




I'll come by tonight.




- That's good, I love those.
















That's a good idea.
























You'd better get downstairs.




It's a good thing you didn't put me in a bathtub.









- Good morning, Captain.






























































Your memory will be even better if you get your passport and your money back?
























Better get rid of it.












It's better this way.

Right, Harry?



- That's a good idea, Sucky.










No, Mr Morgan, sir. I haven't seen him all night.


























- Good evening.
- Good evening, Captain Morgan.

- Much better.














- Your friend's missing?









Renard's gonna come and turn this place upside down... so you better start thinking about how and where you're gonna move him.
- Wouldn't it be better to go with you?




























Maybe someone better who won't fail.























- I hope you find your friend.





- No, but your friend is still sitting at the table.





















































Good evening, may I come in?
Good evening.















- Good evening.


Apart from your friend, Mr. Eddie, he likes to be called that.


































Your friend needs company.













Okay, Steve.











































































































It's better to leave before we break someone's border.









- My dear dear sister...

























And mom's in her best gray muare.





I'll find you a bedroom with a better landscape.
They all have the best landscape.















You know, this bath is just for Saturday night.












My poor, crazy sister, I actually have a job.
And it's a job to drive around and tell your readers how bad the music was.
It's not a good job, Rick. When you move here, you... you're gonna write your own music, like you always had to do and like you always wanted to do. Stop it.
Rick, it's still better than being a very good critic.









The house is in good condition, no signs of dampness.





























It's not a very good chair.
































You haven't lived in this house since you were a kid.

















This house is worth a lot more than that.


















- Very well, then I agree.









































I don't believe in them, really... and I'd be interested, but I'm not scared.

























It's okay, Bobby, it's okay.




- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.












Those who lived there before you weren't very good people.













He's just a kid.






Good morning, Mr. Hardy.



















































Isn't that better than reading to Grandpa?






Maybe you should leave the sun.

































- You're laughing at everything, aren't you?









I hope you have a good trip.



Okay, soft, but firm.
















- Baby, honey.

Mr. Rick and his friends had cocktails.













































You just feel sorry for this kid, just like I do.
Stop calling her a kid.



There's, in part, some magic of sleeping beauty in the baby.











I haven't done that since I was a kid.






























Do you have a good iron... can I exchange it for this mattress?












Sleep well.

There's quite a lot of good apples here.


















Rick, it's true, isn't it?
























Too bad, really.

- Listen, darling...






Probably a hidden wire somewhere in the house... acting like an antenna, collecting sounds... or some woman crying in the village.


























I'm glad you're better.
Better?






- Go, my dear.
















Very good.








Very well, I know how to do things.



















That's practically the best thing you've ever said.















































You'd better tell the captain.















I can be here by tonight.
I can't see you tonight, but I'll be happy to see you by nightfall.



The only person who doesn't think I'm crazy... because I believe the house can be full of evil... evil directed against a certain child.








You really never been here after three years?




If I ever tried to talk about it... I might be better. Did your grandfather tell you why? Cause?





























If the father was as good as the mother... think how good I would be.
















































- Really? - Are we gonna sing her a song?






















Oh, Lizzie, honey.

- It was a woman.

It was a woman, I swear!
The ghost of a woman!

















Stella, darling.





We'll get the doctor.
There's a doctor in the first house, in the village.











Okay, you just forget about it for a while.















There were some weird cases earlier this evening.








You'd better go to bed, Miss Fitzgerald.




Oh, Pam, who do you think Dr. Scott is?



































Just think of the two women fighting on the cliff.
















Well, then we should know each other well by then.







































Stella, remember how bad you were last night?







Dr. Scott will take you home.


















Maybe, really, it's not that cold anymore.











He won't be back until tonight, sir.












Listen, darling.




































No, really.













But it's hardly a village doctor.

Train tonight.

















Okay, we'll have a session.










Okay, the message can do that...






- But we'd be there for her all the time. - Okay, it's worth a try.
It's important that we all believe, isn't it, Dr. Scott?






You don't want me to leave Windward, do you, Mom?




And you, Dr. Scott, you hold him.

Is that the reason, darling?
























Maybe it's better to try and get into her mind.










No, don't move until she's better.












- Okay.







What did you do to the baby?
What does that mean, Dr. Scott?









Why didn't you tell the truth about this house?





I know now... that Stella will never be okay until this house is cured.

Dr. Scott, would you mind taking us home?


I'll be here early in the morning.


It's none of your business, Dr. Scott.









Dr. Scott told me she was in a trance today... saying some words, they thought it was Spanish.


























It's better for her if she wakes up in my house.


They must never know, my dear... I promise you!





































- Mrs Meredith? Nope. He heard the scream of a frightened child.









































Okay, I'll give it to her.


Go back to your work, Miss Bird.















- Thank you. Miss Holloway, forgive us our ignorance, but we don't know very much about your work.





















Then they came back here with their baby.





A scared kid.




A good plan flashed into her little evil head.
She went into the nursery, took their baby and ran to the duck.






















The next morning, she came back, she had an early stage of pneumonia.

















Good afternoon, my dear.


















The woman who laughs.

And the other woman who...
Your grandfather's sorry you should be here... but he knows you'll be better soon.
Better?

I wouldn't say that, Stella, honey.










She wasn't gonna tell us about the baby.








Thank you, Doctor. I assure you, when this healthy young man laughs...

- Goodbye, Doctor.












Nothing, except that Dr. Rudd, my predecessor, had a prejudice against her.



Could we talk to Dr. Rudd about her?








According to his handwriting, Dr. Dudd must be 200 years old.









He went back to Windward this evening.




- Dr. Ruddov's generation, was inclined to assume it was murder.

- Doctor. - Quietly, politely.
- Doctor! - Yeah, Edith?




Okay, Edith. Take this home.


He's a doctor here.

















I'm gonna be found dead in bed in the morning by a lot of fear, and I'm gonna die on your conscience.


I promise you we won't do anything tonight that the priest doesn't approve.
























It's probably Dr. Scott.
- Good evening, Dr. Scott.
- Good evening, Lizzie.











Miss Holloway was her mother's best friend.
















I need a car tonight.
Good evening, my dear.


























Good evening.




Good evening.




- This is Dr. Stella. I'm starting to understand.


Another time, I'd be offended by... such insolence, especially from a doctor whose behavior leaves much to be desired.

I can't be mad at anyone tonight.





- Is that true? - She'll be there before you do.






Even better.

























I'll be with my friends.
















Don't try to talk, honey.
I'll call Dr. Scott.




















Hang on, honey.



- You sure? Dr. Scott, Grandpa's in the office.

We'd better go straight to him.
There was nothing I could do, darling.











- No, honey, no.

It's okay, honey.










Second time a year. Imagination is good.













- Where they took Carmel... after they came back with the baby.

I think that Mary took Carmel's baby... gave her a home and a name, provided that Carmel never came back.

She was supposed to be near her baby.
















- Please, Stella. - Come on, darling.
Okay.










You told Carmel to leave and took her baby, but Meredith wouldn't support it.
You were mad at them, you tried to kill the baby, and instead you fell off the cliff yourself.





















































"From the best American cook, Elizabeth Lane.

Are you happy with your lunch, darling?











Of course not, but doctors know better.




- Hey, buddy.

























I know she's a wonderful woman, a wonderful housewife and a great cook, but could you read something else?







You look like a cranky kid.


















































The doctors were right.







Jeff, marriage and family life scare you, don't they?


















Oh, honey.
















Dear Mr. Yardley, I hope you remember me.












Because of the war, she's got a lot of work to do.





Good morning, Mr. Yardley.
Good morning.















Print the truth and follow my instructions.



I think I'd better have lunch with you.

Okay, then I'll come in right away.












































Beautiful, isn't she?



- Why promise such an expensive thing?










Outside the mink, inside the sardine, nothing good.








- Okay.




































You know he's a keen supporter of the truth.



You just have to go and tell him your kid is sick with whooping cough.






You're a much better liar than I am.







Okay, I'll go.











































Yardley thinks I have a farm husband and a kid in Connecticut.
- Farm, husband and child.

Well, honey, obviously there's only one thing you can do.

















- And Dudley Beachum is his best job.
Okay.


Well, I'll just say, "Of course, Mr. Yardley, there's nothing better than inviting this man..."























In response to your letter from Mrs. Lane 15, it will be a great pleasure to receive your friend Jefferson Jones.




About my baby, he's got a whooping cough right now.

















Don't try, my dear.

- Have a nice evening, Mrs. Lane.
- Have a nice evening.







I prefer a good low.


She's the best farmer, isn't she?






- On the doctor's recommendation.





















- So she's gonna lose her job.




Your friends are waiting at the bar.










- Is that good?











I'm gonna lose my job, Felix.













Sometimes it's for the best.
- When I think about how much I've done for this job.
There's another job for you.


To be Mrs. John Sloan, darling.













Something very good, but not too expensive.

























Honey.





- That's a good idea, Dud.
















- We just have to find the baby.







She told me she bought the kids for Christmas.


Of course, I know it's a lot to ask, but if a friend is in trouble...
John, honey, it's only for a few days.


Oh, John, we don't want him to lose his job, do we?
















Felix, good news.
May I inform you of our dear Elizabeth's engagement with Mr. John Sloan?


Lizka, is that true?




















Can I get you over the threshold, darling?





























- About the baby.


We forgot about the baby.







Here's your baby.




The baby stays here late every night.










- John, darling,












Honey.
- Something wrong, darling?





I don't think so, darling?




















Means "no good."
I want you to know that this is the best kitchen in Connecticut, Mr Basilnoker.















I'd better take off my apron.











Good to see you, my dear.












Dear beloved, we are gathered together...






Remember, darling?





Dear beloved, we are gathered together...









You're gonna wake the baby up.
- The baby?






























Wonderful, isn't it, Uncle Felix?

































The baby, no doubt.
The baby, so fast?




- Really?












- They're gonna bathe the baby.










I'll make you a nice martini.

















What a good name.









Looks like you know how to bathe kids.
Yeah, I learned when I got my sister's kids.






My sister's kids are so used to me they'd be pissed if I missed swimming.































Is that better?

























































She's bathing the baby, and I think Mr. Jones is helping her.



Your wife is a wonderful woman.








Okay.



Elizabeth, darling.

Merry Christmas, my dear Mrs. Lane.















I love a good big fireplace.

























Nora's gonna feed her tonight.

Even better than a mink coat.







Sorry, honey.











































Believe me, your feelings will be much better.
That guy's got a good voice.









Betty Kane is going to have a baby.



- The baby?


- My dear sir.






Because your wife had a baby.











- One child - 200000
Two kids, 400,000.
Kids are picking up printouts.
And now Betty Kane is planning a baby in September.


- Another child, dear Sloan.


Mr. Yardley, Elizabeth is a very busy woman.
And the kids take time to print.
Take as many as you need, my dear sir.












Okay.


Well, my kids, I guess it's time for bed.





Nothing's gonna make a dream like a good dinner.


- I'll just turn off the lights, darling.














I arranged it very well, didn't I, darling?






A woman leads a man astray from the true path.
























Good evening, Miss Lane.
Good evening.


Come on, darling.












There's nothing better to wear than a leg. Would you like to join me?

Maybe I'll feel better with a good drink.




Yeah, I guess they really make good husbands.










Okay, darling.




- The doctor said I was too fat.














- No, I really have to go.

















- I remember what you said about the charm of an attractive woman when she planted pancakes on a pancake surrounded by a smell of coffee and a boiling bacon in the solar kitchen.








I think it's best to call Nora.






































It's interesting for a married woman to find out she's still attracted to a different sex.















Really?










Have you ever kissed a married woman?









Yeah, that's better.











Really?






Oh, I'm fine, darling.




- This evening freaked me out.








Really, Elizabeth, this is really embarrassing.







- Okay, if you insist.
But the first person here in the morning will be the judge...









































Thank you for taking care of our children while we're working.
Mrs. Wright told me you helped her with the baby.
Yeah, but where's her baby?





I have to run to work.










We've got a new kid.









- Good morning.











































- The baby.
The baby.




Are you saying the baby swallowed your watch?
- Oh, my God, I have to call the doctor.



- The baby swallowed the watch.
- I'm calling the doctor.


Children often swallow things.
















Nice dose of castor.

- When's the doctor coming?
You can't let a kid get hurt.

Castorka's bad for the baby, too, it's not good.


Is the doctor here yet?









The baby swallowed the watch.



Did the baby swallow it?








Good morning, Mr. Jones.
Good morning.


- Can I see the baby?









- I'm gonna go tell Mr. Yardley the truth.

I think we better get out of here.






I distinguish the truth from deception.









































Well, okay, but I haven't trained in a while.


Go on, darling.






Good morning.










Tonight we're having a dance in the mayor's hall.


































We have to hit American Housekeeping with a new kid.










- I should be back tomorrow night.
- I have to leave early tomorrow morning.

Is your last night here?

















































Really?
- Maybe we should turn back.

Okay.




If she cries, you'd better calm her down.
























- Okay, Harper.

















The child was abducted.





Do you understand how much this kid means to print?








Smart Housekeeping's kid was kidnapped!
- Can you describe the baby?


- How old is the baby?






- Okay.
I'm gonna give you a $25,000 reward for returning the baby.

This is Elizabeth Lane's baby, the most famous child in the country.














It's morning.

Getting home at 7:00 a.m. doesn't seem so funny to your husband.







- When was the last time you saw the baby?





















Luckily for you, I didn't let the press know the truth while you were hanging out all night.


- Your baby.
- What's wrong with my baby?
- He's not here, darling.


Our kid's a smart housekeeping kid.

When I came into the house, I saw a woman in a cape and a hoodie coming out with your baby in her arms.



Such a heartless, black, irresponsible woman I've never met in my entire life.
You sit here and talk to me calmly while your child...



I thought you were the best and most exemplary mother and wife.







Even if you don't feel morally responsible to your husband and child, I have to protect my magazine.


Millions of women in the country are building everyday life according to your articles.









I mean, you're telling me here that smart housekeeping kid...



- You'll get the award, good woman.
- Good morning.
Two kids?



- They're our kids.







What are you doing with the baby?












- No, and I don't have a husband and a baby.


No baby?








The baby's fine.















































Okay, fine.



















Thank you. I haven't had a piece in my mouth since last night.







I think I'd better get ready, too.







































Good morning, Felix.

You're a good cook.





I don't cook for people who don't like my friends.
I didn't do anything to your friends, Felix.

































































I've come to ask you to reconsider your decision to leave work.
















"My dear husband joins me in my daily work.

- My child..."














- I've never met a woman more recklessly!











- Now I'm kissing married women.











You're a married woman, but you don't feel like her.









- Okay.































So Felix was telling the truth.































"Dear Santa, I don't need a doll, I don't need a big red ball.











She prefers lunch at the best hotel in the city, even if he can afford it only once a month.





Good evening, Miss Webster.
Good evening, Leon.
Hello, darling.


I'm sorry, honey, but you see me every weekend.













Honey, don't be stupid.




Honey, stop being a bank manager for a while.

Look, Joan, I've come a long way from Eckleshall, and you know how much I hate to show up in expensive places.





Come on, darling.






































What's wrong with you, darling?





- Good evening, Hunter.
- Good evening.






- Goodbye to you in the morning, Miss Webster.


I'll call you in half an hour, okay?

- Very good, Miss Webster.

















Goodbye, Daddy, darling.



- Goodbye, darling.





Honey, don't worry about me.








- And I say he's good at 12:27.












Good evening, Lady Bellinger.





































Good weather doesn't last long on the islands.




























- Good evening.
- Good evening.














Okay. There's a big house upstairs.











Good evening.












- Falcon, my dear Torquil.






We've met since we were kids.

He's in the Middle East, and the kids go to boarding school.




























That's a bone, isn't it?


- Good evening.































Good question, buddy Torquil.


















It must be harder to tame a woman than to tame an eagle.




















He's a little weird, isn't he?
























- Very good.

- The best.























We can travel in the morning if we're lucky.

- I'll see you in the morning.




























Good morning, Miss Webster.
Good morning.





















Perhaps it would be better if we moved to the hotel.


Well, good.





































I remember you as a child, Kiloran.




































He's got the best gear from Glasgow, but the fish don't know him.


















- Really?
- Really.

















And it's true.




























- Talk to me, darling.




It was so awful about the weather, wasn't it?


Hello, darling.




















He's one of the best.



















Have a good day, kitten.



























Okay.


























































It's true. Is Miss Webster here?






- Good morning, Miss Cheryl.













Can I leave tonight?



I was going to spend the evening in Aknacroish myself, madam.










No, darling. I said that Robert's fiancée would be here by breakfast.


Sweetheart, we're gonna be friends.





Good morning, dear Cheryl.





Robert and I are old friends, and you'll soon be his wife.















It's good to see you, darlings.

Rebecca, darling, you look lovely!












Not with mine, darling.
Torquil, these are my friends.

















Really? How interesting.








If I have to give up my house, I'd rather not live at all than live on that money.






There's someone to look up to, darling.












From morning to evening, there are regatas and people's walks.



And women wear tiara, who have tiara.


Men are even more dazzling than women.























- Okay.
















- I went to Erraig this morning.











No, but I was a kid once.













- Really?


















Is that how you treat an old friend at his diamond wedding?
























And you, sir. Let me tell you, you were the best kale dancers.






- Good morning, Bridie.


- Good morning, Miss Webster.





- Do your teeth bother you in the morning?





















































- Okay.



















Moving us is his job.



































































































What about their wives, their children?













































































They'll recognize a good prayer there.




My dear boy, my dear, you have missed the most unique experience of your life!
- Really? - That's right.



















































































He was singing in the main hall while they were trying to support each other over the water, but soon their powers ran out and they dragged each other to the bottom.
Before she died, a woman cursed Kiloran and all the McNeals of the Kiloran family who would ever cross the door of the castle.


















He will forever be chained to a woman and die in her chains."


































We were friends.

Looks like you won't spare your wife or child for your country... are you married?






























Dr. Drossos, our American friend is wondering... why we use men as pack animals.
























































































I'm sure Mr. Robbins will be okay by morning.

- Good evening.

























Really?




















It's just an old woman.




That's so good!




















































- You'd better take a look...







We'll ask Dr. Drossos.
























The General's absence is better than the disease in service.
The doctor's gonna explain how to behave, and I'm gonna control it.












"Good wind," "bad wind"...















Doctor, there's a doctor, he's got cards in his hand.


- You'd better worship the doctor...


Let the doctor do everything in science, and I'll pray to Hermes...



















- I'm gonna go get the doctor.












Does the doctor know?
I told you to report to the doctor!























- But Dr. Drossos is a medic...



















It's better to watch the wind with hope for luck than with each other without hope.



The General has full confidence in you, Doctor.


- Good morning.

Doctor, can we talk in private?





Doctor, I'm ashamed of yesterday, but...































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, My friend, what can I say? ..






- It's for Dr. Drossos.







How long can the catacepsia last, Doctor?



























How's Dr. Drossos?
Like Dr. Drossos.











Your friend is dead. He couldn't save us.












































It's hardly gonna keep a man with a woman who's gonna die tomorrow.







But Saint-Obin is dead, the doctor is dead...













Yeah, but when you wake up in the morning, do you remember what happened last night? ..










You're fresh in the morning and you're enjoying your life, and your lady is getting weaker and paler every day.













But you're really getting worse...












































We'll leave in the morning.






But even if there's no chance of recovery with us, you'd be better off.
































If you want to threaten Tae again, I'll forget we were friends.





































Good morning...


































You'll be much better when we leave the damn island.




































It's a windy night, but it's warm.






























































- Good evening...





It was a good show...



























The truth is, it's not all part of it.















- What are you doing tonight?











































- Have a nice evening.









Okay, honey.


Which means he, Jonny Nielson and Brofeldt will praise each other.






















I'll call you in the morning.








Find a good picture and make two columns, as always.








What I said was, now you're better off on stage four.



















Good night, darling.














I have three roles to play tonight.

Wouldn't you like to change your job to one where you pay more?












I thought I was good...





























- Good night, darling.



















They pay, of course, not much, and they don't have a lot of work to do, but you gotta start somewhere, right?










I wish I could rehearse all day and play every night, but I can't stop dreaming.

































There's nothing better than Tatar meat.












The role is good, but I don't know if it's good enough for me...
That woman is a furry.
It's gonna be okay, you'll see.

















I have tennis in the morning.




































































































































































































































Who would make the best Paris?











































I wish Menelaus...




















And by the way... a talented actor is equally good at farce, operatte and drama.














The explanation is in the morning.























































It's gonna be okay.


























I wouldn't want my wife to come back tired after rehearsals and back to the theater by the 7th, and I've been waiting for her until 11:00 p.m.



Really.
























































Really?








"Operett's evening at the Royal Theater."
- Good morning.























Yeah, really...



































Raised and good.


























































We're sincere and human only from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m. when we're playing in the theater.














I want to spend time with the kids instead of playing theater.










Of course I don't have the best voice but it's okay-- you don't have to change your repertoire.









- Is that true?


It's true.















Work like work.



































- Really?






Our kids have grown up, but we'll always be together.













































































































To think, this is our house we'll live in for many years at night in the living room...




































































It's better than sitting at home doing nothing.


























All right.









































Good evening.
















- Good evening.




So you're spending the evenings with Swedje?


You have a wife and two children.


If you love your Swede, at least hide it better.













"Fear men, run from women..."




I think it's a good idea.




















I dreamed of a real job...








- Really?






























Okay, thank you...






Really? ..








Have a good day!












































But if you really love me, divorce me.



















We have two children and a lot in common: memories, friends, habits.












We don't need each other anymore.
























Hello, darling...















I'll tell you the truth. God knows it's better this way.





























I wish them well.







































Is that true?





We don't fit each other.

I tried to be a good wife...
Trying to love his ships, his friends...


Now, the kids...


















































































I think it's very stupid and expensive!


























It lasted until 11:00 a.m.








It's a good thing the others aren't coming...























































Good morning, Dr. Wadner.























Okay.
Very good.
Really, not for the paper.
Thank you, Dr. Wadner.



Dr. Wadner, I'm very grateful to you, but I haven't changed my mind.










- Good evening.








Good evening...






























Is everything canceled? Really?




























If that's how you want to say goodbye, why don't you just imagine that you're really so great and impeccable?



The idea of free tickets was good, but it didn't help either.






To his dear Vega.









Traditions are important, you can't argue with that, but it's too much for kids to show up in a bed.




Good morning.






Tell me the truth.









... and yesterday, in one of the best roles of his youth,......the student philosopher of "Calosh of Happiness."





















































































God, make sure everything's okay...




The baby's dead.
















Call a doctor!


















































You probably don't know that you had a baby.







I'm really sorry.

- Good morning, Mr. Anker.
- Good morning, Sister.


- Doesn't he feel better?


- Good morning, Dad.
- Good morning.

Okay...

She's getting better.

Really?





































We just don't fit each other.


I always disappear at work, it's true, but I want to get better, give me another chance.

You need a different woman and I need a different man I'd be happy with.































































































































It looks so crazy and sloppy and dirty, just like that old woman who was limping on a pier in Paris selling fish to my poor, dead, dear girl.























I'm not my mother, to be sent away, crushed by an ugly, sad woman.



I'm better than all of them.






































Don't say that. It's not true.














I know. Mom said sometimes they're there on Sunday mornings.
Everything. I found out then they're going to church. I found out about them.














































I'm not a kid and I'm leaving when I want. I see him. He's probably from Texas. We have to go to the cathedral.
Okay, Angelique, Cupid, take the shopping home with us until we're safe. Do whatever the old crow wants.









It's a good time to go to the lake.


























Okay, honey, we're not gonna fight. You just focus on what we were thinking.






I'm so sorry Madame this table is reserved every Sunday morning for the Doulain family.















































His initials, whatever they are, I don't know what the hell these horns are, but I'll try yes monsieur. They say all the dishes here are good.

Leon, tell that gentleman in the white hat if he's having trouble picking his own breakfast I'll be happy to help him ask him maybe he'll agree to sit at my table we're old friends fast, dirty slut!























































It's great in America. You're too worried about little Clio. She knows how to live one way or another, it's bad when there's only women in the house.
When there's a much better man around you. Ah, you're a little... you're going somewhere?






If you were a bird suzette and I would be a gun. I'd shoot. You'd fall. I'd shoot. You'd shoot. You'd die. My dear precious. I love you. I love you.
The house wouldn't be home if it didn't smell like a good cigar where did you hear that?
That's what mom always said darling about, did she say?
Look, all you've been telling me is the truth?


They'd lie for you if you think I'm lying to you.








No, you're gonna be too gorgeous guests to ask why I don't marry you very, very rich and respectable and you're really gorgeous no one can have all women of two kinds or good or bad, and which one are you?
Well, from my dad's point of view, I'm very, very good-looking, and you could say that I'm very respectable, and from my mom's side, I... as if I didn't bother with your gentle hearing.











Is this a good place?
























I'd be laughed at by Clint Maroon at home. I'd wear shooters on my pants. I love you when you're angry. I've seen a lot of women. But nobody like you is like me, Clint?











I'm not gonna hurt you, but we could be friends with you and me.














Every day and everyone's looking at her trades every night at a gaming house on Royal Street. Can you imagine a woman in a gambling house?






It's Charlotte, too simple, too ordinary, this Ramport Street woman, remember?



Tonight you look so happy. I'm happy.














I'm sure you want to, all women want to redo men.
You're not my man. You belong to that little lady in Texas. There's nothing to mock women in Texas. They could teach you some things. Who could?





They said it was better for America there we learned the Amreician idea and your mom got hurt, too?



























In the letter you asked me to come to your office, but you ignored this Mademoiselle Countess. If you'll excuse me, I thought we'd try to be honest and straight about okay, well, I'd like to tell you I don't belong to old New Orleans traditions.

I think we understand each other.









Good day, monsieur. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.














It's impossible that Madame Doolain isn't so rich. Maybe I could pull her out and help each other, get together and ask for seven.




I don't want to get dirty eyes on him. This property of my mother agrees when she went back to New Orleans. It was the most expensive thing for her.


- Rita Dulain is my favorite wife, but my dear child.











Put it down with what we're taking with us, the rest of us sell a good show. You showed that lawyer how the destroyer became sentimental and practical.



And my dear Countess, and this is the beginning he thinks he's hurt me for living.

























What a surprise meeting you'll be my friend in this strange place, though maybe you're waiting for someone here I should have met my mother she telegraphed that she'd come on this train and she's gone?






I speak a little French. Oh, no! I think this is your first visit to Saratoga, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez, isn't it?
I read French much better than I say.

Your best room for Madame Countess!




















I feel like you're a friend. I'm happy to be of use to you. I think about your dear mother's telegram. I hope to enjoy her company soon. Goodbye, Mr. Van Steid.
Who is this gentleman, your friend in the white hat?



or something, but we're not friends how sorry. in Paris he would have been successful.







Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Have a good day, ma'am.




















I have the money to extend this summer. I want respectability of comfort and safety. We shouldn't get used to each other. That would be awful, wouldn't it?




















Oh, good morning, little man. How long have you been with the Countess and where are you from?
















Tell me, isn't it a million?



















































All right, let's go to the track, if you want some fresh air won't hurt us.


Women are crazy.
Isn't that right?
















Okay! Where's Cupid?



Good morning, Cupid.







She speaks French like everyone else so... okay, listen both of you be careful and considerate.



Your best silk!









I thought I'd try your water this morning.








Good morning, Mrs. Du Schenfrez.

Greetings to Saratoga, and I'd like to say that I was happy to know your late husband, dear Beambi, I'm afraid that's impossible?

He was almost a hermit. Maybe you mean his younger brother the bastard's friends called him Beambi. I guess that's what you're saying. I told you, you shouldn't have suspected this lady.

But dear Mrs. Bellop!



Good morning, Mr. Sull. It's so good to see you.











What a woman!



Don't be stupider than you seem, dear Bini. She's genius... and she'll go far.
One more drink, Angelique. I feel better.
Good morning, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez.
Good morning.
Good morning.


But you have to let me take you back. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.







Railways, railways-- I almost lost my mind-- I'm thinking about moving to the cottage the next morning for quiet, so he was talking about the railroad?
What did he say about the railroad that such a charming woman lost her peace?







Good morning, Mrs. Do Schenfrez.

I met Mr. Sul and he wanted to know what I had against him.


Ma'am, I'm glad you're talking about me. You shouldn't be so hard on me, Colonel. He's on your side.




I hate those women who interfere in men's affairs. I understand, ma'am... Colonel, perhaps you could help me with the railroad. Gentlemen, let's not talk business here. You haven't forgotten that you invited me to breakfast?















Oh, Clint, isn't it?

I don't need you to mess this up... because I'm a woman and I shouldn't think I've always respected women's logic, but in Texas, it's the men, the people who wear pants I act in their best interests, and you're causing problems at the speed of the locomotive.




Everything can be so much better. I won't let you stick your long nose in my business.
A woman can talk me into being fooled by a woman, but she's never gonna catch me with her lovely ears and take note of what I'm talking about.



And he's gonna listen to her because he's stubborn and important and he's gonna have to choose the woman that attracts him more than his mother.

Women are completely immoral creatures.
Honey, honey, honey.









Everything here is incredibly expensive.










I don't want to think you're lonely, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez. You're such a popular woman in the big world.


woman in the big world

She decides to go on a trip to good old America, that's what a woman in the big world means.
















I bet 1,000 it's okay, Colonel?


















Maybe it's better if the minority shareholders take care of us.






Cats seem to meow louder than usual this morning.



















That's good, Countess. I often remember that day in the French market.























came this morning with claws and fangs on, the rest of the cat's vortex is telling her right now in the square, wondering what your cute face would look like in scratches?





Good morning, Countess Colonel Maroon.


She's heard so much about you. I'd love to meet your dear mother.
Good morning, Countess.
Good morning, Clarissa.
Good morning.





Nope. My dear husband was here once.




Incognito when a French diplomat comes to America, sometimes it's better that there are no headlines.

I've always told dear Etienne his desire to be invisible, so stupid.

















No, it's better in your room.



















And I'll say you were great real, dramatic, very plausible, but right now you need serious support from that handsome Texasman, you don't need a smarter woman than old Van Steed, especially the one she's scared of.





































You've never been afraid if you won $500, felt rich, and that's enough for that little girl in Texas, I'm sure that's a wonderful blue forgetting on your clothes. That's funny how women like to put their mark on a man, a needle.




















Please take it you're the only woman who's been good to me.


Put on your jewels like I say they're women's best friends.









Damn it, if I'm crazy, you're good!









Now you're gonna go home and take care of women. Do as I say!


























































He's gonna be here tonight at the ball. He's gonna be like a real cowboy wearing a hat, with his backs and everything, and Cupid's gonna be like...






















She's gonna kick you out of the ball tonight first she won't say anything until she hits the audience and then bam!






Good girl, he'll be here soon.








I'm really beautiful, aren't I?









Dear Bart, good evening.






How's your dear mother?















You know, you're so beautiful when you're angry with me, women with the power of the spirit.





A useful mom she pushes women away from me and I let her.











Good news comes fast, doesn't it?






















I want to see the master doctor tell you to lie down and you lie down he'll come to his senses?

Women, oh?









No, my dear, never, ever, ever!





















Believe me, friends, I've had a good time with you.







My friend Christopher Cross, in recognition of 25 years of impeccable service from J. J. Hogartha, 1909 - 1934.





Well... all I can say is that we have the best boss in New York.


Thank you, my old friend.










Don't interrupt the evening just because I'm leaving.


You can drink as much as you want. Don't go out to work with a headache.




What a woman!

























- Yeah, every Sunday. It's a good way to spend time.








































Okay.



















My friends call me Kitty.
What do your friends call you?



Yeah, my friends are pissing me off, but I'm not offended.

















I was coming back from work.


















































































It was a good party last night, wasn't it?





















He jumped into the water to save the woman.




























Can I have a better one?




What are you hiding from me? Oh, enough about Saturday night!
I'm not talking about Saturday night...


You're probably babysitting the kids.












































































If the corsets get fashionable again, I swear, I'll leave this job.
Why don't you come back to work?


No, honey, I haven't had wings in a while.


You haven't found a job since you met Johnny.


































The painting is a good painting. It's like a love affair.







And the truth is, I'm in a difficult situation.













































All right, Mr. Cross.









I have to run downstairs every night to listen to the radio.
















You think I like running downstairs every night to listen to the radio?






He had a good salary.
He gave me a good apartment.
















Next time you draw a naked woman!
I've never seen a woman naked.

The Happy Hour is already beginning, darling.





























My friend rents an apartment in Greenwich Village, I'll move them there.


The sooner the better. - Yes.
























Well, at least it's left after you blew the money tonight!




You know where else to get, don't you, Lazy Foots?
























- Thank you, darling.


































Millie, this is my friend. Mr. Cross is Miss Ray.














I can't think of leaving you alone... darling!









Oh, Johnny's a good guy...
Maybe a good one, but...





















Oh, don't talk about it, darling!
All I care about right now is getting a job.
It's... it's expensive to live like this.










Clothes, good perfume, need to be impressed.





















Bye, darling.






















Every gallery knows his work!































That's my pawnshop, isn't it?







Bring more, and we'll do a good business, Johnny.


It's one of my best paintings.














































































































Look, if you're a friend of the artist, you have to bring him to Mr. Dellarow.

- They're very good.

















I know how good they are.

I would never have guessed that a woman wrote them.



















I guess I'm the only one who supported her... as a friend...
You know, just as a friend. - I didn't hear your name.







I could always be sure who wrote the painting-- a man or a woman--

Your work isn't only original, it's men's power.






That's a very good description.
That's how I see it... the painting is a good painting, it's like a love connection.



Why aren't you sure about your work?

















Enough for one night.



























Beautiful work, interesting manner.









- Johnny's a good guy, Chris.
Really. I don't know why you don't like him.

































Nice piece of cookie...












You've been copying her work for years!
Pretending to make up the paintings yourself, you've been copying the work of a real artist all along.










If you ever draw anything again, I swear I'll write to this woman and tell her you're stealing her ideas!






Janeway said that new paintings... are the best thing you've ever done!




You'd be better off if he kept looking like that!
It's good for you to say, and my ragged nerves?










Forgive me, darling...











And now I can't tell you... really?







Really...







Chris, you're so good, so kind.

































"There's a woman out of the bridge."















































Don't you think your wife's worth more?










She's going to the movies tonight.








Come outside at 11:00 p.m....


































It's true, I'm fed up with you!






























It's him, isn't it?























































All right, Mr. Hogarth, you can tell.
Chris, is this about a woman?

















Not very expensive, but he stole them too.

She doesn't need them anymore, does she?




























He was just copying her work.














































































































































His friend.
What friend?




























Every night I take long walks on Roman streets without leaving the office.

























































You must be. I'm just a friend of his.









It's better this way. Wait there.













We stormed the bakery this morning.

Is it hard for women now?

Today, a woman stole shoes and scales.











































But a woman like that isn't for me.

It doesn't mean anything. Love often changes a woman.

















All right, let's go.




















It was some kind of holiday this morning.





































The meeting is scheduled to take place tonight at 6 p.m. on the Tiburtino Bridge. One of them will be there.









He's gonna stop at the bridge and he's gonna whistle on Florence morning. But you probably don't know that tune.









Great job. Yeah, I can see that.




















































It's just that, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, it's Early in the morning.






Okay.







Good evening. How are you?





Honey!






You're the one who hit the women. Me?












Good evening, Don Pietro. Good evening, Pina. Good evening.


Okay, okay.












Maybe tomorrow morning? Okay.





















That's what a woman does without thinking.


He's so kind, so famous. Sometimes I think, 'cause he could easily find someone better.
A young girl, not a widow with a child without a dime.



















The Germans were there again this morning and turned it upside down.






Very good. What did he say about me? He's worried.

When did he arrive? Last night.



But after so many months of hard work, sticking around here.


I hope Don Pietro meets our friend.




















We were downstairs. Where's downstairs? They won't tell the truth anyway.





They're kids.



We know your job!

Lie down. Why would I do that?







That you fight every night?
I'm the last night here!








Good for you, you've got other things on your mind. I'm going to bed. Turn it off.


But Romoletto says women bring misery.









Is it true that from tomorrow I can call you Dad?









Nothing, he's a friend.

Okay.






















Because the truth is on our side.



And we'll see a new, better world.
The most important thing is that our children will see him. Marcello and the baby we're waiting for.











This morning, our Manfredi was seen in Erenastino Square.


Forgive me, my dear Major, but I have much more interesting news.

















- Good afternoon, my children.










































































- Good evening. There's a girl waiting for you. - We're leaving?





- I'd like you to meet me. This is my friend. Sit down, Francesco.





Let's go to a friend's tonight.






You'll be fine there.








- It's 6:00 in the morning.







Georgo, help me. You'll be very good here.








Hello, darling. I finally got out of your way.























Good evening.







I'll call you in the morning.






























Along with him and our children.
Marina, do you really think that happiness is about having a nice apartment, beautiful clothes, rich lovers?


From love for your husband, to your children, to your friends. 'Cause what you call love isn't love, it's dirt.











































Okay.
Come on, darling.
























Isn't that right, Don Pietro?








It was just a rhyme and a kid.




But at the same time, I'm calm. - It's weird, isn't it?












No, don't interrupt. I have to tell you the truth.
































I know that your friend Epis is running a military organization, and I also know that you're well aware of it. If you speak for yourself and convince your friend to do so, you will only do your duty as a priest and citizen.










In that case, convince your friend to talk. I think he doesn't know anything you're suggesting.

















- A lot of work today? - Not much.











I get drunk every night to forget everything. Instead, on the contrary, I look sober at things.

















































- And the woman?


- Come on, darling.

















It's not hard to die well.

















- It's a good thing she's addictive.





Dr. Kendall.













Goodbye, Dr. Kendall.

- Just like that, Doctor.


























































































Yeah, it's good for a French kid.










So I don't tolerate women near this place.
I moved into this house. I promised myself that no woman would ever enter it.






















- You really want to know what happened to her?























Sometimes I wouldn't say anything for days except "Good morning."

Good morning, Nicholas.
- Good morning, James.
- Good morning, sir.




























When she can overcome a natural shyness that will one day prevent her from making easy friends.






























Okay.








The next morning, when I got up, Nicholas had already left.





Doesn't make the weather for me if I have a new friend or not, I'm not worried.







- Anyone else? No friends?


































How often do you free the evening and go to the movies?




































Good evening!
Good evening, Nicholas.






- No, I'm fine, thank you.





































- Good evening, Francesca.


- Can't it wait till morning?









That's what they usually do, isn't it?










Francesca, before you go to bed, pack your suitcase, we're going to Paris in the morning.














Why are you threatening me as if I were a child?
- You are a child! - No, I'm not!
I'm a grown woman.










































































Honey.























Honey, you gonna put that down?













Goodbye, darling!




- I know it's absurd, but I really didn't feel them.




































Tonight, you said I never consult with you about anything.













Okay, that makes sense.





Okay, Thursday, we...















Good luck, my dear.

























I keep them for my closest friends.





For several years now, I've had a very high opinion of your work, especially your portraits.












Maybe I've met too many beautiful women.


It's pulling me away from serious work.


Good evening!

















Of course, it's gonna get me out of serious work.






- Really?
- Yes. If you do that, darling, it's only in your sleep.





- Because I made a deal that I wouldn't interfere with your work.































Better?





- You really want to know?
You're the most beautiful woman I've ever painted.

























That's very... very good.


















- Was it such a hard job?

















But what, darling?




































































What's wrong, darling?
















Hello, darling.

It was an accident, darling, I couldn't prevent it.

But I'd rather die.
- The doctor says in a day or two, you're gonna get back on your feet.







Ask the doctor, ask the nurses.










Your coat, Doctor?

Yes, Doctor.
- More injection, Doctor?
- No, it's not necessary, Miss Cunningham, and I'm friends now.



















Okay!



























Excuse me, Doctor, through, as you said, the treatment, you realized that she's suffered enough.











I'm sorry, Doctor.














I'm willing to take the risk, Doctor.
Very good.


- Dr. Larsen?
- It's a good thing you agreed to meet me.



























































You're the most insane woman I've ever known.


















- You really want to play, don't you?



Please, can I talk to Dr. Larsen?












































- Goodbye, Doctor.




























Wouldn't it be nice to get your time back?











































Good morning, monsieur! See?






































































It's the last batch of the evening! A hundred for the tour!






Great doll for his baby!

Place your bets! It's the last batch of the evening! Place your bets!





































What if your partner doesn't get a good shot tonight?





















Well, Miss Jeanne, I'm very glad I met you this evening.











Good evening, Miss Jeanne.

Good evening, Marie-Louise.
















That's a lot, isn't it?



























































No, my friend.



























































If it were true, you wouldn't be happy, you know!










- Isn't that right?




















































































































I'll need it in the morning.









































- Okay, I'll wait for him.








It's a friend.










































- I don't have time. Really?

Two friends, tv. You're rich, you're poor, you're tight.













But listen, my dear Monsieur Davis, life is not "yes" or "no", just like that, on the move.




































The other woman.









Better be careful.
































































Another woman could read in your eyes the cause of your joys and fears.




















I wonder why all these beautiful things are for a woman who can't see them.

















Frank, my dear!







Only at night will I tell the truth.
And what's the truth?

























I'd better get out of here.










































For me, every new dawn will be the dawn of a good day.



















Would you mind giving me a minute, my dear friend?







Oh, my God, I really didn't tell you.























And crazy love for a beautiful woman is quite common madness.

Okay, Chief.
What a night, my dear!













- Okay, monsieur.
What could they want you to do? On Christmas Eve tonight?



































You're looking at the work of a genius.
















Dear Frank, these security gentlemen have come to me.










- What is it, my dear?




















But two friends, meeting by accident on a walk, can have a little chat.









Good story for the allegory.








Ah, what a disappointment it will be if your charming wife finds out the sad truth. Ha-ha-ha.












And, at the latest, we'll have it tonight.











Dear Monsieur Grandel, we rarely see you here!

























































Madame gave me the keys eight days ago, and she went to Dr. Monso's clinic.





Look at me, Doctor.




















My dear.





Madame, how are you feeling this morning?
Oh, I suddenly got scared, Doctor.









No, darling.







Forgive me, darling.











The baby won't take them either.


His work is still bordered on a miracle.


All the better. Maybe we'll finally solve his secret.






































































You should see him the night he met your husband!






















Now I'm almost a normal woman.















































Good evening, dear madam.


























Imagine a seacape, dear madam, with two allegorical characters.

















































It's so good here!










We're going to Brussels tonight.








Then tell me the truth.




We're leaving together tonight.













Good evening, Robert.



















She told me the truth.
What truth?


That you quit your job. I lost interest in everything.























You're a good girl.









So you love me, too, is that true?












Good evening, Jeanne.
You weren't expecting me so early, were you?
Where have you been, my dear?







Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha- Who were you with tonight?


















He's leaving tonight.












































































































































































































































































It's gonna be okay, sailor.



Wilma's still a kid.






I remember as well as my own name.





All I want is a good job, and in the near future,..the house is big enough for me and my wife.


















































- He's got the best place in town.











- Wait a minute, man.











- Oh, honey.
It's good to see you again.



































































Honey.













































She didn't feel comfortable living with us after she got a job.

She got a job?











Do you know what time she leaves for work?









It's so good to be home, Dad.








































Rob, don't you have homework?







See you in the morning.


- Good night, darling.
It's a good thing you're around again, Dad.


What do you think of the kids?
Kids?
















It's okay, honey.












First thing in the morning, I'll go out and buy some.






















Well, I'll tell you, as far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna have the best times in the country.

























Have you thought about finding a job, Homer?

It's too early for Homer to think about work.





You know, they make good salesmen.

























Your friend told me you were home, so I wasn't expecting you.







































- I think it's the best place we've ever been.
















Yeah, that's better.


Here's a good place.


































Okay, Butch.








































It's nice to see young people enjoying each other, isn't it?

















I have a woman and two children in the States.




Okay, I promise I'll take note of that.








































Thank you so much for such a pleasant evening.


All the best for you.









I'd better wait and make sure he came in.






That's a nice couple of them, isn't it?



















Good night, darling.



























































































Okay.


That's good.















- That's good.


I must have gotten high last night.










- I'm much better now.
- That's good.







I think the best of them are already married.
- Good morning, Fred.
- Good morning, Mrs....





I'm afraid I don't have a good appetite this morning.



I have to go to work at the hospital.

I must have been ugly last night.















- Bye, darling.




























And this time I wanted to find out if it was true.
- Am I really home?



I have a vague memory that we kind of had a couple of kids.



















You were so kind you didn't even mention it this morning.





- Maybe it's a good idea.






Freddy, darling, why didn't you let me know?


- Freddy, darling.

I can't believe it's really you.











You already went to work.







































































Not when they want me back, to such a fat job in such a fat bank.


- Why not, darling?






















I bet he came back looking for a job.





- I don't want to go back to my old job.








You have to understand that since this biz changed the master, we have the right not to commit you back to your old job.
I wasn't thinking about old-fashioned guns.
I'm looking for something better.
























He's a very good man.
By the way, your job will sometimes be to sell soda.















No, the circumstances aren't very good right now, Al.














- I'd say it can't be true.
- It's just a job, Al.















- I thought I'd be a little light from work.




You have the right to enjoy life for a change before you go back to work.

































Well, from now on, honey, you're not gonna see me in anything else.





























When we go to the meeting tonight, will you wear your uniform?






















































What are you kids doing?






































Okay, I'll show you.





Go play with your friends.




























No, darling.








I didn't tell you there wasn't much money, because every day I was hoping I'd get a job.

Why couldn't you get a job?








Well, you can always help me with my homework.


Are you really okay?














He was my friend, pilot B-17.







Okay, honey. I'll get rid of it.























As you can guess, our buyers in this department are mostly women.

















- Good morning, Mr. Brooke.
- Good morning.

- Good morning.

- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Good morning, Mrs. Garrett.





- Okay.















Pretty interesting job, huh?

All the islands look alike.




Wife and four kids.
















I'm a good farmer, Mr Stevenson.






With this food deficit all over the world... farming looks like the most important job for me right now.













- So this is your place of work?






































Is it true what you're saying?















These are pretty expensive.


But they're good, good bet.


..this perfume is good for any mood.
Okay. I'll take it.
Very good, madam.















Okay, I'll buy something.





















- Okay.

















Didn't you say you had to get back to work at 2:00?

Well, maybe you'd better...?























- Novak seemed like a good loaner to me.















If we refuse to give him the chance to work that he deserves.










I personally chose you for this job, and I know you're gonna try.






- And wish me all the best for your charming wife.










She called a short time ago and said her father was your friend.











I told you the night I came back and didn't find you anywhere.






Well, then you better get used to it.








Good people, these Merillas.





































That's why I asked him to join me and my wife this evening.






- Good evening, Mrs Stevenson.
- Good evening.













- Well, have a nice time, children.

Give my best to Fred.






It would be particularly appropriate this evening to honor the man who fought for our freedom.
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome our friend, our colleague, our hero, Al Stevenson.





Maybe it'll be a good idea if you just leave the bottle here in front of me.













He says, "Okay."










































- Like your friends, Fred and Marie.


They don't like each other.













To prove to yourself that what happened this morning wasn't really happening.


And if we're gonna date each other like this, Peggy, it's gonna happen again.




Okay, I'll be there.


Good evening.










I don't want to get involved in your personal affairs, but here's my advice, darling, grab him as soon as possible.
Woody and I are just good friends, we don't have an affair.






I mean, with his military salary and his job, what I had.







It's not like Fred likes this job at the pharmacy.
- He'll find something better.





And I think you could make yourself a better haircut.





Sit close to each other, we're all like water. Give each other a hug.











You expect him to fire you in the morning?





Come on in, darling.














I hate to see Fred connected to a woman he doesn't like.









































Isn't that right, darling?



You fell in love, and you got married in a big church, and you had a honeymoon in southern France.





How many times have we fallen in love with each other over and over again?

- It's okay, honey.



































It may seem like we're banal and old-fashioned, but we tell each other everything.




























































- He just needs to get back to work.




Said it wouldn't be fair to his wife, and that we shouldn't date anymore,..because I'm obviously one of those girls who takes things too seriously.


































































Just read the facts, my friend.


















It's a nasty truth.
And the sooner we get smarter, the better we...
















God, Fred, I'm sorry you lost your job.






























- Okay, come on in.
















Maybe it's a good idea, Wilma.


Tell me the truth, Homer.











Ever since we were kids.



Okay, Homer.











I'm like a helpless kid who can't do anything without screaming for it.















Good night, darling.





He's looking for a job.







Okay, thanks.

Fred, I want you to meet Cliff Scully, my old friend.






I told you, Cliff Scully is an old friend of mine.






















He's just an old friend.









I quit my job when you asked me to.
I gave you the best years of my life.


I couldn't even hold on to this job at the pharmacy.
So I'll go back to work myself.








Good idea.
You'll find a good job somewhere else.
























But I know when it's best to get off.









We've got two flights coming out tonight.

You'd better ask the pilot.









































But I asked you about the job.









Okay, kids, let's say it again.


Okay, let's try it.




























- Good thing you're here.




















I think it was made for the kids.










- Come on, darling.















My dad told me he heard you had some kind of construction job.



It's an exciting job.




Come on, kids.

Children.





Dear beloved, we are gathered before the eyes of God and these men today to unite this man and this woman with the sacred bond of marriage.

Homer, do you take this woman to be your lawful wife?



Who gives this woman to this man?




























As Homer and Wilma agreed to bind each other with the sacred bond of marriage... in the face of God and these men.....and confirmed it with the oaths given to each other.....
























Don't laugh. She's very good.














And how many women revolve around him?










Will you teach the king's children?

- Do you have any friends in Bangkok?























And vu is a woman. Women in Siam simply don't exist.





So I can't leave in the morning and be at the mouth of the river.





He'll get you a job.

Good morning.




















I'm sorry and I'm asking him to help me get started.


Easy, darling.






That's good.


























































I wish I'd seen him.















Okay, honey, I'll find out about dinner.





















Don't you dare, darling.




























































The fearless are a good trait for the scientific mind.
Perhaps you'll be a good teacher.



Bring my children.



Okay.


There's my kids.







I have 67 children.











I'd like to have 67 children, too.




I think Mrs Owens is suitable for teaching children and wives.


Good day on the horoscope.
Very well, Your Majesty.






Come on, darling.

I don't know, honey, but we'll find out soon enough.



























How can I do my job?









How can a king be wrong and a woman right?















Did you promise to teach our women?


















There aren't too many women here.
"How can a king be wrong and a woman is right?







































Good morning, sir.











Good morning, sir.


















write a good letter.








Good morning.

"A deal is more expensive than money.














Good morning, Your Majesty.


















































Be sincere to me as to yourself, my friend.



This woman and her house!

Take an example from her, my friend, and you will always stand on your own.






















I think we'll get on the ship in the morning.























I call you sir, so you don't be inferior like women.
But you still sound like a woman, and I won't call you "sir."











You can talk to him like a woman when they don't dare.














































You'd better get him out of here before class is over.
He's gonna be good, ma'am.



If he makes people laugh in this dark place, that's good.






And now for work, we've already lost a lot of time.




















































Learning from a woman.












Honey, what happened?





They only know how to fight in one way - to hold a big pole and beat each other's legs.
We could stand and stab each other on the tibia.





He said I wasn't a man because I apologized to you for the book. And a man shouldn't apologize to a woman. No way.




In our country, I can be almost like a father to Louis, even though I'm a woman.
And since we love each other very much, he knows that I wish him well.



I think it would be much better if you were friends.



That's better.
























Couldn't you wait till morning?


















Three o'clock in the morning!









And with the baby.


























His class is very good.


































- Very good.















Remember, there are 3,000 women in this house.

And how am I gonna do the job with that noise?








































































Good morning, Lady Taptim.



He says I'm the most beautiful and charming woman in the palace.

- He's a thousand times more expensive than a slave.




















"Your good friend, Abraham Lincoln."









It's just the way it works here, darling.








Ma'am, can we show the English man to our women?
Your Majesty would certainly like to see beautiful women in England.






You must select the most beautiful women in the harem, dress them and teach them European manners for predation.





















But wouldn't it be better if they met Sir Edward in their usual clothes?


You have to tell me which one of the women is better off wearing a European dress.
Well, okay.

























And they'll report the truth in their reports.





































































The life of a single woman is also a curious incident.
























































- If you want, darling.





























And I think you'd better get back to your students.

The rest of my bedmen didn't know I was a woman.



























You lived like a woman in a cage.

They'll tell the truth.





She's telling the truth, and you know it.

You don't want the truth!








You'd better know right away that it's none of your business.


























































Okay, honey, but hurry up.





"Dear friend and teacher.














I hope we've become quite close friends.


Or does she want to hear the truth?
Of course, the truth.






















I try to hide him, but I'm a very small tree because I'm a woman.


























Are you feeling better today?
Much better.

















Not just about your son, but about this woman.

That you were telling the truth.

















































I... ma'am, the doctors say you don't take sleep pills as prescribed.










Ma'am, I've got more work every day that's getting harder. It gives me a lot of confusion and anxiety, and so on.
















I cannot, Your Majesty... madam, have you forgotten that work is the best medicine?













I want children.
Children.
Very good, ma'am.

Okay, ma'am.












That no one's telling him the truth.








































Let him read them.
Are you listening, old friend?







You've always told me the truth.

You put your children on the path of knowledge, and for that they love you very much.

So if they're better than their parents, it's because of you.






But, ma'am, if I haven't told you my thanks before, that's because you're a tough woman.


That's a good word.







Sometimes he was like a child.

He was sick that night.











Everyone must stand before the King and before each other, as people must.


And which I believe is right and necessary if we want to live and work together, in love and respect for each other. The change we have to make if we want to work together for the good of the country.








Kids believe what we tell them.




























































I have to finish the job.












































- My darling!



















If I don't cry tonight, they're gonna throw me in jail.



























































































Kids, please!





You're gonna make a good couple!












My children!













You're not gonna see me, except for 7:00 every night when you're having dinner, and I'm gonna come to the big hall.



















I'll show up every night at 7:00.



















I confess that I was looking forward to 7:00 this evening.



We're gonna be friends, monster.






































































He's not supposed to hear the whole truth from me.


If you're telling the truth, then it's me.































You'll be there this morning.


















































My dear princesses, when you're poor, you work!







How's your father this morning?





































































































































































































- Are you a man or a woman?














































































































My brother's friend.








Are you disappointed that I look like your brother's friend?



















Good morning.








Really?










She's not a kid anymore.









































































I know he was a good man in everything he did.

My friend.





















Carmen's a kid, the kind who likes to rip fly wings off.
































I don't need money right now, but then I'm gonna charge $25 a day plus expenses. - Okay, sir.



























































I'm sad about it in the evenings.













One night he left without saying a word.































Maybe I should see Mr. Geiger.



































You'd make a good cop.










So we're closed for the rest of the evening.
















Bye, buddy.















Okay, Riley.

- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening, Norris.




Good evening, Mrs. Rutledge.




Yeah, she'll be fine in the morning.






I wasn't here, and she didn't leave the house all night.




















If anyone asks, she's been home all night.











All night?


You're my friend, but when a homicide cop falls in at 2:00 in the morning, it's a little...



































The rain ended here around 9:00 p.m.



















Just that a few Sternwood drivers lost their jobs because of his youngest daughter, Carmen.












Good morning.
































I got a call from a woman after they brought it in.

















She was home all night.









Besides what that woman said, you don't know why they want $5,000 for him?
















You'd better talk to my mother.






































I'm Eddie Mars' best client.






















She'll call me at 6:00 P.M. with instructions.




























You'd better come tomorrow.
- In the morning? Early?















Better at night.



















- Are you the one who was here last night?


No, I'm a friend of your father's.

































- Are you his friends?














Do you have a better one?




































Why don't you call your friends in town?













































I think you'd better get out of here.









Okay, I'll be here until you call.

























































































































































Isn't that right, Agnes?















Where were you last night around 7:30?

Okay, I've been following Geiger's house.












This morning, he was taken out of the water near Lido Pier.






































































Better than yesterday.


- Good evening.



























And the women?















































































Come on, tonight.
Okay, come on in.




































































It would be nice if he hired you for a permanent job to keep his daughter at home.









































































































All right. Starts with what Eddie Mars has on you.














Even better this time.
Okay.



















Okay, but I'm not taking you home anymore.





















He treated me like a little kid.







I think you're telling the truth.
















I'd rather buy it myself.






































Last night, they both...








































































That's better.










She's good.


































































You know that night the kid slammed Brody?





































































But your baby deserves better.







































I wish you'd changed it yourself. I'm busy, I have to paint the car.















































We were just good friends.


















































That's better.














- Okay.
















































I just shot your best guy.













































































































I don't know what I'm gonna tell him yet, but it's almost gonna be true.











Isn't this a beautiful day for a walk, darling?




Oh, honey.
Why, darling, do you always get in trouble?



It doesn't hurt, darling.


































But, Jeff, darling...


She was a mare. Hey, buddy. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
























































You mean, love my books, darling.

The tall chair of General Jackson's baby, General Soyart's favourite bed...





For you, darling, merry Christmas.

And you, darling, "Merry Christmas sale."


Women.

Women.












It's Christmas, the kids are gonna be home soon, and you need to dress up as Santa Claus.
Come on, darling.
Why do women wear such tight boots?
To make your legs look thinner, darling.





Yeah, when the kids were little.






























I want to give you a present while there are no children...

























I don't like what other women gave you.
So these are other women.


But they're still women.




















Okay.



























































You're punctured, man.
































Where's my beard, darling?




It's a good thing my nose hurts.



What are you doing, darlings?






What did she do to you, darling?


Is it true, Jeff, did you fight?
Scared, so the baby.


Come on, darlings.





And if it's okay, try not to fight anymore, darling.





I don't know how you can meet our kids like that.






















Now we have a good gift for Grandma.





Kids, please!




Your Uncle Todd, darling. Then............................................



Well, my good kids, what's in the bag?




Yes, my dears, isn't this fun?

I've got thousands of other kids waiting for me who love me.


















It's a very good rum drink, my boy...



























...from the women of the Tatum Division of the Mason and Dixon Dame Court.
Now, dear Mr. Warren, after your invitation to speak at our convention, we have decided unanimously to surprise you and to present one valuable relic for your little museum.

























Here you go, darling.


But you can still meet our dear Mr. Warren, which is going to be an important event, isn't it?


















Darling, dear Mr Warren.







Isn't that right, darling?




Indeed, they will complement each other.





Oh, darling, dear Mrs Warren...































She's just a kid.
The baby?















Your poor little children!





























You made me look like a laughingstock in those women's eyes. You knew the table was a fake.










No, I'd better shoot myself.














That's not what's bothering me, honey.















I'm afraid we girls are somewhat embarrassing dear Mr. Warren.




But, my God, Sally, what was I supposed to do in front of all these women?























Okay, damn it, if you feel like this, then why did you come with me?













Didn't I try to tell you that I don't even know if women have legs?
Women?



























Call the manager, darling.














Oh, no, honey, not that.



Knock on the wall, darling.




Oh, no, darling!











Tell me, aren't you the one who gave the speech tonight?








- Come on, buddy, join us.














It's okay.








- Really?












Okay...

Christmas is over, and there's no mistletoe, isn't the wish for a good night's good excuse?




























And as for his treason, I've caught him in the arms of another woman on more than one occasion...


A dead horse, yes, a woman gave it to him.




















Kids and I now have my maiden name.





I can be Miss Apley again and take custody of the children.
I suppose I can take care of my own children?































Besides, he's gonna support me and the kids.

Of course, Mrs. Warren, the children's residence is what we need to discuss.

Last night with my mom.








Does it occur to you that a judge can ask the children themselves who they want to stay with?




Miss Egan, bring Warren's children.

Good morning, Mrs. Epley.
Listen, kids.


































Uncle Todd, I can't talk to these women right now.



Good morning.








Good morning.




I can only speak for myself, my dear.

I'm really a very good secretary.
And I got rid of all those women.





























And no kids.







Joe, why didn't you go with them, horses and kids, since you're bored?


Best shot at the stables of the Clear Valley.




All the best, huh?

























Now, in the afternoon, he's normal growth, and in the evenings, I think he's starting to grow.
I came here last night, and he's standing in his stall, staring right at me like a glass eye.


























Well, then, about the kids!
Jeff, kids develop day after day.

Not Sally's kids.
You and the kids aren't interested?

- Your own children?



























There are 25 women waiting there.








You need a secretary, and I'm a very good secretary, honestly.























You're hired.

Maybe the kids are there.



Oh, getting rid of the kids, darling?


Like a month ago, Jeff had the kids.














I wonder, darling, why do you care who's in there with Jeff? You guys are separated.



I don't care if there's hundreds of women in there.

My kids.
I only think about the kids.




All for the benefit of the children, huh?






- Kids, please.








Very possible, darling.

Yes, darling, to your father.




Thank you, darling.





So, my dears, your father doesn't know you're coming and he's coming, and...














Maybe she knows some good, new games, and you can all play.

Here you go, darlings.



Tell him we're good, and Uncle Lance will be here soon.










Okay.
Mom, do you want me to make spy out of my kids?
Don't be dramatic, darling.




















What the hell are children doing...




















These children must be punished, and they know it.


After all, it's very good of Sally to let them go to me.
Okay?






































Kids, servants, jerks, no time to drink coffee, my best pipe was stolen, my stupid razor, my pen is running, and for the fifth time in a row, we had tapioka pudding!
It's that woman!













And children and servants, and...
































































Hey, man, you seem to have a weakness for this horse.
















You might think you don't love each other.









He's really gonna sit on you.






































Yeah, good morning.
























I'm just trying to be a good secretary.














I thought, before we get to work...



























I hope so, darling.




Kids!






Why are you wearing such tight boots, darling?













Run, children.






It's better to lower family values, Mother.



You'd give it all up, wouldn't you, Sally?
















































And the kids, darling?



All right, then Uncle Todd.

Todd, you need to get married to have your kids.






















What manners, children!



You've eaten enough, children, I think.

















Kids, let's play one game.




Where are you kids going?



- Is the doctor still here?



Did they call them doctors?








Why isn't the doctor coming?













You think I'm gonna be able to leave the kids like that?


Where's the doctor?



I went to get the doctor in a terrible state.



It's okay with the kids, except you and Todd all over the place, that you encouraged them.



You know I'm their mother, and they're my kids.














After all, well, they're my kids.



Kids!

















Because I thought you finally got out of that woman's heel, you...































They left this morning.





And Mr. Haynes is the best in Virginia.





















Didn't you call Jeff to find out about the kids?





Nice work, Albert!























That's a very good idea.
Very good. Okay.







A lot of gorgeous horses and the best amateur jockeys in history will compete for the Cup.









































































































































































































Loyality is a good quality.

















I promised my friends in California I'd keep an eye on you so you wouldn't get into trouble.






You're in a good mood.







Is that part of the job?
It's a night.


Working conditions are improving.


Well, she doesn't know her powers.





















- Okay.




Do they have one for women?
Here's a good secretary.






















Okay.







In women, for example.







All right, go.






Okay, spill what's in your pockets.
You do good casting, don't you?


Okay.









Okay.




























































But those are very good words.












- See you in the morning, boss.






- Good evening, Mr. Jardin.

Good evening, Mr. Jardin.





Good evening, Harry.









Good evening, Mrs. Keller.








And a woman who decorates my old age.










Remind me to say, my dear, that I love you.


















- Yes. In the morning.





I'm very proud of you today, darling.



















It took him two nights to track me down.







Okay.


Yeah, she's good.











- Okay.





















- I was looking for you this morning.





























Okay, but remember, I can get a brand-new 10 cents bandits for a dozen.















Okay.



































































He sent a tail for me that night.








He was good at flirting with women.









Two years, less time for good behavior.


That was the last time I heard of him before the White Suit last night.











Okay.



Honey.



I'm glad, darling.



He loves me, gives me everything a man can give a woman.


I know, darling.

Are you upset, darling?









Tony, darling.



Honey, I have jewels.










Still serving women?















And it's true.
Really?




Nice lipstick, baby, whoever you are.

- Honey, who was that?














A woman called.

























Word for word, he started telling his truth.




















She was brought in this morning.













Just the passion of a true collector, my dear.






















- Yes, darling.


Okay.
- Have McDonald close the vault. - Okay.



Okay.






Golt went to Jardine's last night and had a little fight with him, but that's it.




















My job was done when I found your husband.






















Okay.
Okay.

Okay.





After all, he's one of my closest friends.






























































No fool would wear a white suit to a job like this.


























- Okay.



























- Okay, okay.








Very good.



- It's me, darling.


It's 10:00, darling.



Okay.
I'm sorry, honey.


I don't even think about it, darling.




Wouldn't it be better to go then?



But it's a job for him, he's highly qualified in such matters, he's got a lot of experience with the law in all its ugly aspects.



One of my friends, who lied to himself that he had a perfect marriage, recently realized that he had a rival.













- That's not true! He always hated her.



Love is not just for the young, my dear.






- Good morning.
- Good morning.











Work first.

Okay.
Okay.




The maid will come into my apartment, look under the bed, and I'm in a good mess.


























Okay.























Okay.













































- It's a good thing we got rid of her.




































Okay.



When I do a job, I do it.


































Okay.





What else did the kid tell you?








Maybe he got sick and went to see a doctor at Grant Building.







































































- Okay.



















- Okay.













He's a close friend of my husband's.









































- Isn't that right, Mr. Galt?










Your wife knows you killed her friend.





You put the evidence on me, but when the police start digging, they'll know you had a better motive.














We have business tomorrow morning.



- Okay. See you later.


























































Drinks of millions of women make widows. Seriously.

















































- And last night and the night before.




















Nice people here, aren't they?




















































You see, boy... it's good to live in a cocoon and wait for you to turn into a butterfly one day.



I'd rather stay home and finish my commercial course.




























Would you say that to a woman with a daughter and a son with a gun somewhere in Japan?































I took my own money for the job.









































This woman is dead.







I think you'd better go.






- It's hot, isn't it?


He's still a puppy. Child........................................


The baby...




























We'd better wait in the dark.














- But what's good about...







You're just a helpless kid.








It was a man, not a woman.




It was a man because a woman wouldn't strangle someone.

- Sounds true, Miss Goff?














It's a big town, and somewhere in it, a man or a woman...












Okay, that's my problem.




























My friend says we're the first ones to leave without drinking. That's it?


Like a woman an hour ago.

























I can handle a woman alone.























My dearest friend in the world.


My dear friend.



















Did the baby fall asleep?











Jerry, don't wake the baby.
"Don't wake the baby."



- Don't I try to be a good wife?






















































































































My dear, you're sweaty.













At around 7:00 p.m., I went to an Italian restaurant...

Very expensive.


God has created many disgusting things... but there is no one worse than a woman with a cold heart.
























































































- What do we do with this woman?


















June, I think our ancestors are living in a better world, but Steve Brody would risk it.


















































He's such a kid!
But the cute kid?


















What kind of woman hunter are you, chasing a defenseless girl?














































You're so young, Junea, you're a child.














The restaurant has good grapes.




But if he finds out his wife and I are friends, we're ruined.



















It's true, Val.




- A sailor, a taxi driver and a woman.

























Call me "honey."



















- No kids?










You wouldn't believe it, but for the first six years, I shaved before bed every night.






















I'm his friend.










There's been a murder here. Let's face it.




















I've never seen her before tonight.





































Okay, you have until 6:00.






He was here tonight.






- Because he was here tonight.













Okay.











The doctor thought I was dead, but I was brought back to life two hours later.



















































- Are you feeling better?





















Friends, thanks to you, this evening has been over... but it's late, and it's time for us to break up.














The woman whispered.











Who ruined the captain's evening?





Miss Bartelly wanted you to hold her tight all night?


























It's true.







































My friends will say it's not my fault.
Your friends?

You're alone now. No friends.
The killer doesn't have any friends.

I'm ready to go to bed and fall asleep for a year, that's the truth.



























- You didn't kill that woman?








I was in that mood tonight.






















































- We have a kid at home.
No one cares about the kids more than I do.













































Jerry met Miss Bartelly while working at the dry cleaners.








Last night, I came back.
The woman was insulting.






This woman had a heart of ice.





















































My dear cousin Abigail...











































Isn't that right, Tibby? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
































You're 18 years old, and you're pretty good. It's time to settle down and find your husband.











During the prayer tonight, I had a harbinger, I swear.

Are you telling the truth?




"Abraham rose early in the morning.




I'll think about it in the morning and pray.







And what can I do for you, my friend?

It's not a tavern, and I'm not the owner, my friend.
I'm not your friend!




















































Music is very good.











Martin is an old friend of mine and, of course, if he's nominated, my farmers will vote for him.












As a farmer, I say it's better to have half an acre naked rock than to cultivate the richest land of someone else.
I dare say we don't understand each other.






























































Don't you think I should go to my room first?

















I'm sure they're very decent people. And I'm sure you'll be a good girl.



- No, honey.




- That's it, darling.






We can hardly force our guest to take care of the baby tonight.


Oh, there you are, darling.
















She seems... scared of a kid.























I'll sit still, but if you want to leave for peace, my dear.




























I don't see the point of continuing to call each other that.


- Did you have a nice evening, miss?





























































































- Hello, Dr Turner.













You're looking so surprised, Doctor.







You know how kids know how to...















I wish he was my doctor, not just a farmer.





What brings you to our party, Dr Turner?






























Klaus Bleaker's wife and children don't have a home except for this farm.















I suppose I should consider it an attempt to save my life, Dr Turner. And no matter what I think of you as an annoying uninvited guest, I think I should thank you.






I've known for months of Dr Turner's attempts to deploy an anti-rental movement to our areas.












I'm sure in honor of you and dear Harmon, they're making so many festivities. Yes.



- Good evening.
- Good evening.

























Very good!


























Why do you think you're so much better than me?











- Good evening.
















































If I have to stay here, why can't Dr. Hamilton at least look after me?












I'm glad you're happy, my dear.











Didn't you even tell Dr. Hamilton?





- There's Dr Turner.
- No one sent for a doctor.




My regrets to Dr Turner.













What do you want from me, Doctor?


Let me be clear, Dr Turner.


- Good evening.
- Good evening.
- Won't you stay for dinner, Doctor?



Maybe I was quick to say it, Doctor.





- He's a close friend of mine.

Dr Turner, I assure you that Klaus Bleaker's case will be judged fairly.








Dr. Hamilton always kept me in bed for at least two weeks.








I'm glad you don't see cause for concern, Doctor.





Dr. Hamilton usually recommends you eat more. But he's, of course, older and more experienced.



















Of course, my dear.

I'm better now.
In that case, even Dr Turner will approve if you finish your dinner.








Would you like a sherry, Doctor?




Of course, Doctor, and don't think about going back this night.


























Really, there's no one.





















Dr Turner...








Is it possible that her illness was more serious than you thought when you examined her, Doctor?





It's a shame, isn't it, when the doctor doesn't know why his patient died?


You'd better go to bed.






And then we found out Johanna wasn't gonna be able to have kids anymore. That I wouldn't have a son... that after me Van Raines wouldn't be, that I would be the last.



































I mean, Greenwich isn't that far away, is he?




















It was a good sermon today, Father.
















You don't sleep or eat because your house isn't good enough.
And you're unhappy because we're not good enough.



Sometimes when a woman is unhappy, she just can't talk about it.




A woman has to get a man first and then want him.































Women are silent about loved ones.



































































We'll leave it to you tonight.





















We're gonna have a whole series of nights during the winter season.












At least she managed to burn my best negligee from the Indian muslin.
It's true, sir.


Really.













I'm telling McNab to give her more money and a good recommendation.




























































And I hope my child will believe!


- Miranda, is that true?















Dr Turner, please come with me to Dragonwick immediately.



At the mansion right now, Dr. William Brown, I asked him to come from New York.
- He's a great doctor-- - he's a fool.





Doctor, nothing should happen to my son.
Okay.


What's going on, Dr. Brown?




Dr Turner, I want you to take all the precautions...
Mr. van Ryan, will you leave to give me the opportunity to consult Dr. Brown?


Dr Turner. Thank heaven you're here.




- Honey, you just don't know.






And in the baby's heartbeat, it's uneven.







Thank you, Doctor.







That's good.

It's gonna be okay now.



Call Dr. Brown.




I'm terribly sorry, but at least your wife has recovered well, and in time, you may well have other children.
My son is perfectly fine, Dr Turner.











Goodbye, Doctor.







































































































- I'm afraid for her, Dr. Jeff.






I'm just a doctor.


































































Called in the best traditions of a knight's novel by a faithful chrome.






I'm glad to hear you've become more careful with your diagnosis, Doctor.




You're not a very good doctor, Dr Turner.
















Is he as good as the flower in your previous wife's room the night she died?
Don't you think the conversation's taking too dark a turn, Dr Turner?





I think the night you invited me out for dinner, you had a good idea having a doctor at your hand.
Really, you're lucky I wasn't such a good doctor at the time?




Miranda... you'd better come with us.













Oh, there's Dr Turner.























Dr Turner, you can use your influence... at least once for the benefit of these people and tell them to get out of here.






































Comanchi called him Head Woman.




























Now go home, darling.









I killed that man the day I gave the name of my family to the woman who became my wife.





















You've always been a good kid.
Some miracle... you're good, decent, strong.




My dear, we don't have much time.


And then you're gonna be an amazing woman, promise me that.





























Good morning.


















Okay, just one.













Really?








It'll be better tomorrow.


















Pearl, darling.






But let's go, darling.



















I'll take you to your room, darling.






Lewton, darling.





Come on, Pearl, you and Lewton will have plenty of time later to get to know each other better.
















What else could Scott Chávez's daughter be? I'm a good girl, madam.


I think Jessie's a lot better.









He's so good.



I'll be good, I promise.









Now we're gonna have to put up with this kid.
I don't know, but I think she's a lovely woman.


Of course I liked my women better.






















Okay, Minnie, go.



















I think you'd better go to bed. Like a good girl.

Okay.















Maybe you should make a list, Vashti.
















Okay, I'll tell him.



Good boy.























I'd show you, but I need to finish the job.





















































































Yeah, he's the best serenade performer on this side.




I didn't want to run into him. Really.






You're the best cowboy here.


Take her to the pasture. Okay.




























Good evening, diving well?






























Good evening, Mother.
Good evening, Lewton.



























I so want you to talk to this kid.

And you call her a child? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Under the blanket, a flowering woman, created by the devil, to tempt



You can be a woman of sin or a cup of God.
What do you want to be? A good girl.

















But first I stole from him, and he's going to go to the pearl gates of paradise, as beautiful as the truth that lives inside him. Put this on, girl.



























































Tell your hired crooks to collect their tools quickly, so you know it'll make you feel better.






















Better to be on the side of the victims than the murderers.









Sid, let these people get back to their jobs.








Good evening! Good evening, Mr. Lewton!























You'd better go to him.





















































I'll text you, Pearl. Really?


Really? Nope.








All right, Jesse!









































Okay, I'll show you!
Don't try, you can get to Ken!









Then we can get married, right?



We had a deal, didn't we?



















But then who's gonna do all the work?







I want to show my people the good times.




Pearl, honey, I've been looking everywhere for you.






Come on, darling.













- You're too good for her.









- Really, son?




Really?










If he's going to be engaged, there's no better purpose for him.





Okay!








But you said we'd say tonight!
It was so good, and you're talking about yours again!












No woman can tie me up. Especially a nonsense half-blood like you.
Okay.







Sam's for friends.


















Women don't have to choose!

Leave Jake alone, you've been with him all night!












All children








These are the best poems I've ever heard!







It doesn't matter. There are still a lot of women who are willing to marry you.









































Good since you left, Mr. Mac Kenles.

I'll be inside, darling.
















Honey, I was thinking, why don't we do a bypass line right to your dad's house?

You're not even listening to me, darling.





















I'll get married in the morning. You're so lucky.






Those who steal women are like those who steal cattle.





















It's true, you ruined Lewt, and I let you do it.









It's money, you better get away until the situation clears up.









Take care, son. Okay, Dad.






Pearl, darling.








Sam Pierce was a good man, and you're a bastard.
Nonsense woman.

- You're my girlfriend, darling.








Even when it's okay, I think about you, and nothing can be more beautiful.



Good evening, Senator. Sorry to barge in on you like this.























Good evening, madam.































































Since last night, you've been here for the first time.











































They didn't even give you the office space to work.











You were a good friend, I won't forget that.





























Really?






































If only I could be good again! Look at me, Pearl.



























She's not in the best position to go anywhere right now.
He said if she didn't come back, he'd come here tomorrow morning and pick her up.
























I came because maybe you need a friend?

I heard an Indian legend once. About the way the ancestors light fires in the sky when the ruler's child dies.

















I'm just a lonely old man who needs a friend like you said.























I have some good news for you, Pearl.






He's hiding by the head rock. Women.

Okay, I'll do it.

You have a good horse to ride for a couple of days.



















All right, come on, come on.


































A trusted and trusted friend.

That's how you imagine a friend.

































Would you like a good perfume, a worthy nobleman?





































A little man with a sharp friend.





























So you'll have two friends.
You have no idea how faithful and reliable I can be, for a good salary.
I have to make sure there's no woman involved.
There are no women.
The game and the woman are incompatible.

Why don't you stop talking about it? But there was a woman?



















Almost as witty as my other friend, but not as loyal.

My other friend is willing to kill for me.
That's what friends are for.

















Thank you. It's a good thing he's back, isn't it, Pat?













Surprise to hear a woman sing in my house, huh, Johnny?








































Okay, Mrs. Mundson.



Really?


- Really?











Imagine. She told me she was born the night we met.

Isn't that interesting?

I thought we agreed that a woman and a game weren't compatible.
My wife is not just a woman, Johnny.
















That's what you're gonna have to teach me, Ballin, good manners.














Really?




















- Your friend?







It's not right, but it's true.














Good evening, Mr. Farrell.

Good evening, Mrs. Mundson.




Isn't that nice?












No, that was my friend.
A friend or a friend?





You don't believe in women's permanence at all, Johnny?

I'm curious, but this is the woman who brought Johnny to this job.

























Good evening, señorita. Sir, I am Captain Delgado.






Women know how to annoy.





















































































You'll have a maid in the morning.


I think it's good to be surrounded by ugly women and handsome men.










I'm telling the truth.
























Who's lucky in cards isn't lucky in love. It's a good thing I'm not like that, is it?




































Not good.






































You think Ballin won't let me make friends?




Isn't that right, sweetheart? Beautiful.































































Women are funny creatures, Johnny.

Some weird things are important to them. Really?




























































Good morning.


- I sing to my friend.





I'm listening. I was just finishing my work.

























Johnny, I wish I hadn't...













Speaking of which, I know why you're here at 5:00 in the morning.













You weren't worried, were you? Yes.







- That one, very expensive.










Statistics suggest that there are more women in the world than anything else except insects.


































You lost your job at the casino.



















































































It's so good.




Good evening, Mr. Farrell.






There's gonna be trouble here. She'd better leave before the masks are torn off.









I hope the news is good.












Of course. I really don't know how long it's gonna take.
















I said, "Take Gilda home." I've already said, "I'm waiting on my friends of submission, Johnny."
Speaking of friends...

Maybe I'll need both my friends today.
Okay, Ballin.
























Do you really hate me, Johnny?






Darling,..
















































We went back to where we started, didn't we, darling?











Hey! Why did you come to work today?

Great. There's a job for you. New......................................................





























Every night, she dressed up and waited.









































Who would have thought that one woman would be the wife of two crazy people? It's incredible!

























Someday you'll want to go home, darling.








I'm a very good lawyer.










I was told it was a good hotel.

























































You two are incredibly in love.



As long as you're sick with her, you can't think of anything else.
All right, Mr. Farrell, you're under arrest for running a gambling house.





























A mixture of the best tobacco in the world's most romantic countries.











Isn't that wonderful?

Isn't that wonderful?




That night, I went home for Gilda to take her with me.



You both had a bad idea that night, didn't you, Johnny?


I thought it would be nice if one of my friends killed the other.
































My dear Ganya, the chance they give you won't appear twice.



Alas, too well known who lived with her... and what luxury!







See you tonight.


See, my dear Ganya, we're not hiding anything from you.

She'll give her consent tonight.







Dear Ganya, say yes or no.



Thank you, dear friend, for your mediation.





Tonight...










To tell you the truth, my mind couldn't wake up for long.
And the doctor claims he cured me.















Tell me as a friend about your plans.








My doctor claimed that I would remain childish forever.



- Do you even know where you're staying tonight?











My dear, I doubt very much that my wife will have time to receive you; she is preparing to leave for the village.



















Do you have a good handwriting?





- You're very kind and kind; why don't we be friends?




It's a woman of a violent character; it's not far away.














Oh, darling, he doesn't look representative.


My dear, in the presence of the children, I've already asked you to...








My dear, I have decided to relieve you of your trouble and put it at Gani's.











The face of a fallen woman; I hate her.







This woman doesn't deserve the slightest attention or the slightest compassion.



Often, when children see a stranger for the first time, they make a scream that scares adults; they don't know how to reason, but they feel right.













Besides, Ganya's a good son.




One night I saw her in a theater in such a luxurious outfit, all full of jewels.
























Why are you making fun of your sister, her hard domestic work?













This gift was given to me by the children, the only friends I had there.










I'm very pleased to help my old friend's son.


















But the truth is, I'm a very positive person.











And we threw ourselves into each other's arms.












If I told you I knew a widow, a mother of four hungry children I wanted to help, I wouldn't have to believe me.




If such a simple thing can make you cry, I think we'll be friends.



















































All the better; now you can smile.
Madame, we've heard our conversations about each other.
Did I do the right thing to provoke this meeting so we could really get to know each other?








This morning... I saw your picture...






- Desperate woman?

















- My children, please; such a lovely day.




























I'm here to invite you all to my place tonight.



















Come see me tonight and you'll understand.






What will you say tonight?




You're gonna say "yes" tonight?
I'll see you at 9:00 p.m. with your father.















My dear, for eight years we have lived together, ah, please, our dear, I have seen what you eat, drink, sleep, snore, but what you think is never; I swear.







And you, dear Ganochka?


















That's a good answer.






Friends.
This man has been chasing me for weeks; I thought he wouldn't be too much tonight.







Dear Totsky, did you name your last price?









I love this woman, and she'll be mine!








I'm not indifferent to my friend's repentance, and I'm just helping him correct the mistakes of the past.













I love kids.



This woman belongs to me.














I'm a fallen woman. All I've got from you, Totsky, is your furniture, your carpets, your chandeliers.















They're ours, my dear.












Ah, very good.































I drank her movable property, her marital bed, my children's clothes.




Tonight in my apartment, where there's nowhere to lie down and nothing to sit on, I've been looking for something else in vain to sell.


















My friends.
My children...













Dear friends, forgive the Prince.















Let's leave him, my friends get it right.
Isn't that right?


Ah, my children, a loving father has the right to bless you.




























The woman in the Rogozhina gang... that's impossible.
























































I'm a salesman, okay, and you're much better than me.






























Very good.










But this morning is so beautiful, I wanted to know if you were happy.








Don't you want to give birth to crazy kids?























Yeah, yeah, that night.




Women of my kind must always play comedy.


Oh, Prince, you have to be able to take risks to get what you want, to play a fucked-up, indifferent woman.






The most unhappy woman I know.


The poorest woman I know.














































But it's better for you, believe me.







Even my best friend wouldn't tell me all this.















You know, the night you took Nastasia with you, I felt lonely and went wandering down the street.





As I continued my journey, I met a very poor woman who held a child in her arms.
The baby just smiled at her the first time.

I asked her why and this woman, as simple as we have thousands and thousands, said to me:
"The joy that the mother feels in front of her child's smile is as much as the joy of the Lord every time he hears the prayer of a deeply sincere, prayerful sinner."

















And now I can tell Nastasia that we've become friends?
It's true.

You're my brother, but you better not ask me too many questions; go away.




























In fact, Tamara Pavlovna is going to take... 20 years of how we hate each other.


- To tell you the truth...








I look like a very beautiful woman.

My dear Aglaia, when I'm with you...




































In the morning, very early, the park is deserted.


Tomorrow, early in the morning, I'll be waiting for you there.
I'm not stupid in a gun shooting, and after dinner, I'll be even better.




As his friend, I'm helping him spend his father's money!



































And you don't think it's best to get dressed and come back in a nice way?
I'm sick, it's true.




























C'est son pouwoir In his power to put us between the best and the worst,







Is that true?
















An act that indicates a good fit.









"Dear Prince, I too."



Oh, my children, don't be so annoying.
Excuse them, my dear.




I'm having lunch with my friends, if you'll excuse me, madam.



Dear Totsky, this is about your interests.
Will you let me speak in front of your friends?







A little wine, dear friend.












Good evening.

You shouldn't let these women into the restaurant.















But a short, small phrase would mean that even the best friends would turn their backs on him, and your parents would think very carefully before giving up their daughter for him.







As long as I'm alive, the fate of my children will not be determined by ditching.

























I was asleep, it's true. But is there a more reliable way to wait?


Prince, not just being a girl with a good upbringing.
































Yeah, you thought you did me a big favor last night, but you didn't.












And I would have found better than this one.
I have found the best, imagine, Prince.














My dear lady, I thought you were smarter.























































































Like a child.

Why is the baby so helpless?



Why don't they ask the baby?


Joseph, Jesus, Mary, help my friend George Bailey.



























Yeah, but he believes everything so sincerely, like a kid...
























































Hold each other's feet, guys!


























































All right, sir.

























A lot of people are out of work.

I can't. They have kids.
These aren't my kids.
Yeah, but they're their kids.



You have no family, no children.






Okay, son.

I'll talk to you tonight.





















































































































Okay, Mom.

















No, Harry, you can't, these are my best porcelain plates.




















You can't think of a better death.













He's too young for this job.



























Almost all my friends have graduated from college.
















































































The best couple will choose our jury.
















Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.
Come tonight.
Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.

What a lovely evening!


















































Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.
Come tonight.
Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.










Okay.






You'd better kiss her than bore your chatter.

























































Okay.
















Are you friends?

If you're friends with an employee of this company, you just come in and get a loan.
















Wait for their kids to grow up and leave them?































I'll get a job.







They've only made one condition, and that's their best decision, they've appointed George as the responsible secretary.













All travelers can easily find a job.
Venezuela's neft quarry. A builder with experience is required.

An engineer with experience is required.







Professor Fita Beta Kappa, Bailey is America's best football player.

























My father offered him a job.


As for the job, I didn't say I agreed.





Old friends of the Bailey family.






Ruth... what kind of work is this?

He wants Harry to do research.
Is this a good place? Very.





I'm so happy right now that I could spit in the face of that Potter.














It's okay.
It's okay.









- She's a good girl.












All means are good in love and war.






















What are you doing tonight? Nothing.



























- Okay, darling.

Okay, but just for one minute.


















































































































Half of the city's residents were unemployed when the plant closed.









George, I have a job for you. Unless, of course, you're married to your lousy company.
















Darling, my love!




















The best hotels, the best champagne... the most picky caviar, the most incendiary music... and the most charming spouse.

What then, darling?







































Is that true?














If you close the bank before 6:00 p.m., you won't open it again.


































Half is better than nothing.























We have to trust each other.
But my husband's been out of work for a year.

- I have to pay the doctor.










































They better be rabbits.


















Hey. Listen, darling.


























- Good evening, sir.






With all my heart, darling.


Remember the night we broke a few windows in this house?



With all my heart, darling.





Mary, give me the baby.
The kids are coming with me.


































Every house is worth twice what Bailey Bildin can afford.



But one day, this smartass is gonna ask George Bailey for a job.













Have a good rest!



























Of which, given that you're supposed to help your mother, pay the bills, you have $10 left, at best.
If you have children, there won't be ten left.


He's a smart, ambitious young man who hates his job and Bailey Bildin almost as much as I do.

The smartest young man I know has to sit here watching his friends move around, because he's seen himself as a babysitter for these hungry people.


I want to offer you a job.
A job, for me?



You're not gonna give up living in the best house in town, buying your wife nice clothes, going to New York on business twice a year, and sometimes traveling around Europe.



























You're not gonna give up living in the best house in town, buying your wife nice clothes, going to New York on business twice a year, and sometimes traveling around Europe.







Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.
Come tonight.
Beauties from Buffalo, come tonight.







I want my baby to look like you.













George came home late from the office every night.



Mary gave birth to two more children, but she found time to work as a volunteer assistant.



















The day before Christmas. Bedford Falls is around 10:00 a.m.








































Good morning.
















If you help me, I'll be done by tonight.







Good morning, Mr Potter.











Good morning, Mr. Bailey.
Good morning.



























Yeah, Harry. It's okay.















Besides, you're gonna get a job.


















Did you see the money in Uncle Billy's hands last night?























- Hello, darling.






I forgot him at work.










































The doctor said...
Doctor?








It's not good.

Why do we need these kids?



























Really?







The doctor said she could get up for her birthday dinner.







So our children can have such silly and careless teachers who send them home naked?
Maybe my kids aren't the best dressed, maybe they don't have any good clothes...





































Why are you tormenting kids?



































Or is there a woman involved?





What about the rest of your friends?































It's a good thing you're here!




Dear Father, I can't pray, but if you are, if you can hear me,





Why drink like that, my friend?






It's enough that she's humping around with your stupid kids trying to teach them something.




You hit my best friend!







































































Don't hang your nose, man!































It's better if I die.




It'd be better for everyone...
My wife, my kids, my friends.


It's my job.







































































Martini is an old friend of mine.





























You know, man, you're bothering me.













He's like a kid.






















He poisoned the baby.



































Have a nice day.








I'm going home. I want my wife, my kids, you know?

















Go your way.












- Ernie Bishop. You live in Bailey Park with your wife and kids.



My wife ran away and took the baby with her. I've never seen you before in my life.















You don't have kids.







Where are the kids?




We need a doctor.
It's gonna be okay.





































It's weird, isn't it?










































Where are our children?

























Get me back to my wife and kids.
























































Kids!

Kids!








Okay!





George, darling, where are you...






















































































































"Only in harmony can a woman become beautiful... caring for both the body and the spirit..."

I've got a lot of work to do.

















































Of course, a single woman to run a business and keep an eye on every...
























It's expensive! - What are you doing?








But we have to think about the kids!

























































Well, see you tonight, Simone.










Such an old and so cute friend?















Keep an eye on it, in that case.






















































You could've given me a wooden one, and it would have cost me the same.



I feel better when you're around.





























































































I know good places.



















He gave you a good example, and I give you food to eat.






That's good.





No, I don't. We don't have to scold the kids.
















































Truth is, I feel sorry for people like that.































My legs are moving, my hands are moving. The whole body's working.




































Go to bed.


Good evening.






















































































It's not my job.










You're very good as you are.





















Good morning, madam.






He's got a 9:00 a.m. train, you know how early I had to get!







You'd better take them off.








































Let's get to work.













Okay.


Okay.































































































"My friend gave me a ring. I want to evaluate him." What's wrong?

















































Nice gun.



















Good evening, guys.









It's a house with ideas, I don't want single women here.










































- It's a good thing.




















You're too good.










You make a woman remember what she wants to forget.



But he really is such a liar...






































I can only take your side-- Victor is my friend.








- I know my job.









Good morning, Giselle. How did you sleep?
























Giselle, tell me the truth. - Not now.






See you tonight.
















Okay.














When I picture you with that woman...





































I thought you were friends.

































































































You'll see how good the world is!
















































































Sorry to bother you, but Giselle left this morning and asked me to tell you...





Change the record better.





















Good evening.
- Good evening.











- Oh, Mom, you should know me better!









And thank you for... this evening!

































Oh, yeah, we're friends.



















Good evening.











- Okay.







It's good to be back with your friends.













She's a passionate woman.




- That's a good idea.


Tomorrow morning, you'd already have a lawyer.











































Tell me the truth.














I'm not a fair woman. Here's my portrait.

A normal woman who can make her own decisions about life.


























































































- Good morning, Mr. Everett.
- Good morning, Anna.






Okay, thanks.





Good morning, Anna.





Good morning, Mrs. Drummond.
Good morning, Anna.


You're gonna have some breakfast, aren't you?


Okay, Mrs. Drummond.






But it's not, is it?



Okay, Mrs. Drummond.



You know how noisy these kids are.



















Paul left his business in good shape, given that he's been sick for so long.
















You were a close friend of Paul's.
"My dear Jess, it's weird to write you this letter when you read it, I won't be with you anymore.









Okay, you want to race?




- Good morning, Uncle Frank.



























































- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mrs. Kimball.






Good morning, Mrs. Thomson.
Good morning, my dear.

Dr. Burrows gave such a wonderful speech, and the church was so beautifully adorned.


















Come on, darling.

You better get back to bed.
























































































Okay, a pound of both.

























Come here, darling, and I'll tell you.





She wants to find herself a party. With two kids!









But I'm in a hurry to pick up the kids.
You have a second to talk to an old friend.









I really have to run.










It's a good thing you haven't made peas yet.






















































































Okay.









Okay, lady.














Before I leave, because you refused to come with me, I want to be sure of my children's stable future.


I don't think it's better for Frank to find anyone.




















Ginna, isn't it paradoxical things that happen between parents and kids?





Definitely, you were a model kid.











Ginna, a woman on the loose can be so careless.




Later, children.















If you don't accept the word of honor of an old family friend, what do words mean?

Anything better than on the train... even with George.






































But tonight, I go back to this empty room and the house suppresses me.

















It happens to hundreds of thousands of women of all ages.





All right, go south with your mom.







- Okay, I'll go.


















- Okay.
















Really?


















































I've got a job to do.
































You're not going back to your cottage tonight, are you?

That's good.

- See you in the morning, good night.

You don't want to sleep at all, do you?


















You're very confident, aren't you?





















Jess is a domestic woman.






























We were so good together.







You admit that we had a good time and we spent some wonderful days together.

I'm afraid we don't understand each other.

You'd better go.







Okay, if that's what you want.











Good evening, Mr. Everett.





You really did look good, Jess.


























They're okay.




- Okay.






























On the contrary, I have a good relationship with the husbands of my ex-girlfriends.






























No, it's not hard work.







I'm having dinner with him tomorrow night.















How are you, my dear?
Good evening, Mrs. Thomson.
















My friend, he let me live while I was stationed here.



How lucky we met last night.
























Then she went shopping, had lunch with her friends.















You had lunch with your friends.







Really?












It's hot in here, isn't it?
Really?











- I'm not a kid anymore.

















You're a lonely woman and you have to be twice as careful.





































So... here we are, right?









Better than me.
Chicken's about to hatch, isn't it?








I want you to meet the kids.



- Okay.
























































Okay, Kif.





We're all gonna sing, aren't we?












































- Remember, kids, just one at a time.











- Are you a friend of the Abbotts?





































Maybe you don't know yet, darling, but after the first snowstorm, you're gonna carry me in your arms.









Don't you dare wake me up before 7:00 in the morning.












The house, the children, my mother.



- Did you like my kids?

They're your kids.

You invited me for some purpose, didn't you?
























Women are very strange.







I thought it would be better if I gave it to you when we were alone.















What a woman!





All right, kids, go to the hall and have some sandwiches and juice if you want.

Isn't this a great party?























They've been talking about it all night.



















Your friends.








You'll be home from Chicago at 4:00 A.M.


















- Good evening.
- Good evening.






















Good evening, children. Happy New Year.













All my old friends.






















- It was a great fight, wasn't it?






I don't want to know who's spreading this rumor, but I'm asking you, as a friend, to stop it.









By the right of an old friend who's hurting to watch you do stupid things.
A friend should have come to me right away, not spread rumors that even children could hear.













And I won't embarrass you in front of your handsome friend.








Including you and all my so-called friends.



















Imagine I wouldn't have come here that night?


Don't think it was an accident that brought us back together or I'll tell you the truth.

























Can you imagine that three months ago we didn't know each other?













This is our last night.

It's 7:00 this morning.


You felt so good tonight.










Oh, honey. I knew I'd lose you one day.









Don't you understand, darling?

You better not know me.










Okay.






























Now, go to the kids, my dear.






- I've told you the truth, always.


























You see, all I wanted to remember was the good times when we were all together.

Remember... that night before you left for school?





























Oh, my dear, I didn't do anything.









Now go home and rest, my dear.




Oh, honey, I can't go to New York with you.









- I have nothing to forgive, darling.









And, honey, when I get back, and now I'm sure I'll be back if you wait for me?





- Goodbye, darling.









When the poor mother expected another child and needed shelter, she stole a piece of bread and went to prison.
She stole 11 grand, served 11 terms, and gave birth to 11 children. Then, unfortunately, she had to steal the 12th, serve a new term, and produce my humble person.


















Such a good woman...

She doesn't know... she's spent the best years in her...












I bet she stole it from the best confectionery in Paris...
Oh, my aunt only goes to the best stores and goes...
As my Uncle Hugo says, it's always cheaper to steal in the most expensive places.





































What a horse... even better than your saint.


























It was only this morning that we had a nice meeting with your colleague...
My dear Monsieur... my dear nephew.















All night, our dear Gabrielle has been working on a printing machine in the basement to make them for you, Monsieur, and for you, my dear nephew.









































♪ And there's no better means ♪

































Isn't that right, beautiful rubies?



























Miss, you don't see a good friend who gave you a bandage but a detective who'll give you back!















































Happy, Monsieur, that you've come to me. Are you here to honor a friend or a relative?


You see, all these people were friends or pretending to be.












Any child will tell you where the castle of the Marquis de Pierreon is.

























Oh, good morning, Father!
Good morning, Mimi.
Good morning, Theresa.
- Teresa, is that true?

- Are you really in love?



- So it's true?






























































Come on, kids, get changed for dinner...





























My dear Emile, I hope you're not suggesting murder.





























But in other cases, there was a woman...






























It'd be nice to lock him up.

























































































What a morning!




My dear Emile... we've always had enough patience to endure other people's torment.













- Teresa, where have you been all morning?





Isn't that wonderful?























































































Yes, but we can attract your dear family.





Okay, it's a deal.



































Elementaryly, my dear Rudolph.




- Good morning, Miss Theresa!

Good morning, monsieur!












- Do you really think so?













































- Isn't that a miracle?


It's a good advice to put your jewels in a bank.












































It wasn't until this morning that he found five!


His Excellency and I have decided that it would be wise to put our best detectives in the bank. Beautiful!







She cleaned the castle so much this morning, it shined more than the sun!
- Good morning, Miss Ernestine.

















































If I'm not mistaken, all these crimes have been committed by one person. But all the other victims describe him as a young, distant, almost like Casanova, who all the women are obsessed with.













It all happened the next morning, in front of a small store...







































































And that's all we matter to each other?










Honey, before I get a job, I'm gonna have to live a little more...









You don't understand, it's for the detective's job!


- I remember, darling!










You're denying it! So it's true!




How can a woman fall so low? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,







I've been kicked out, but I'm a hundred times better than this Mr. Video!





























Women always surprise us with predictability.























Unless the woman who fell so stupidly in love...

You realize, of course, that no woman can forget you or report you.

- Then I'll meet you at the store tonight! - Today?


Good morning, monsieur!
























Tonight at ten o'clock!








Dear nephew, you know the driver is my beloved.
Tonight, ten o'clock!







I've been dreaming about riding a big goldfish all week. Or is it better on the pecanes?






































One night... I dreamt a man came to see me and kissed me... didn't he?
























If you can't be good, I'll be bad!
I'll make a better assistant than your clumsy lieutenant!































- Yes, and the most expensive, madam!

- Really... show me the others.








As beautiful as that woman?












Stop peeking!

























Good idea!







Honey, you didn't scare me, you scared those poor birds.





























He's done with it. Really?



I had another meeting that night.












If you follow my advice, I promise you'll stay each and every one of you in your job, which you've been doing in such good faith.







To be honest, I got used to my job at the bank...
I'd rather wash floors than sit in jail!




























































Very good. Only an impeccable reputation from now on, Taylor.


















Good morning.
Good morning.
What a morning. One of the most beautiful in Honolulu.






The doctor said you need to sit down for a while today.






















It's me, okay.
Good old George Taylor.






























I... maybe I can do better myself.


































Our messengers are all from the army, but they're still not convinced that they won't get a job like the president of the bank.


Sorry I didn't find your friend.








"Your friend, Larry Cravat."









My friend who opened the account for me.











































- Larry Cravat hasn't come yet, darling?



- Good evening, sir.




Mr. Cravat didn't make reservations this evening.
Okay, maybe he forgot.










My friend used to come here.





















He hired me to work.
Do you have matches? He has to hire a lot of people.








Christy, darling, by the time you get this, I'll be Mrs. Larry Cravat...


















Why don't we just leave the probation and introduce ourselves to each other?











This war must have been killing you poor women.



















































He's my friend.
Larry Cravat didn't have any friends... and you have to stop looking for him, Mr. Taylor.








Okay.
Okay. I'm coming.

























































Kids are born in a hospital.































Then, last night, I found another letter.




It was this morning.


























































Okay, Taylor.

































I could introduce you to my friend.


He's a good guy.



















It's okay. It's okay.
Then I'll see you tomorrow morning.


Okay.
Suppose we take a good look at each other.














































And this is the friend I told you about.


















A friend from my job asked me to find him on a personal matter.
Your buddy from work...














Interesting, isn't it?












I did a lot of tips on Monday night.















You'd better drink it.


















































That's a good reason to try.
And even a very good personal reason.









I'd like to know more about what happened at my bar last night.



























- Okay. I don't think that's how it works.


- Maybe it's best not to go alone.



















































































Honey, loyal, sentimental, little Phillips.



What about my eyes last night?

















But it's better than being honest, which I find unbearable.







































Phillips, darling.


How thoughtful of you to sleep with my dear Mr. Taylor.














I was gonna get to know him a lot better, Anselmo...







Okay.




























That would be even better, anyway.






















































Confucius said, "When something smells bad, make new friends"?














Good evening.














Really, I... what about Mr. Conroy?

Father better, thank you.
Better?
At least the doctors keep telling me that.










It was at his job.












That's the story in the paper that morning. A man was killed.









I don't remember that, really.































Really, I won't bother you.






You see, I've been pretending so long that I'm not alone that I have friends that I'm not afraid that I'm not dead that I'm alive.



- Good evening.
- Good evening.

















I'll talk to Dr. Grant.



Dr. Grant let me visit him.


I'm a very good friend of his.
Are you a friend of Michael Conroy's?
- I'm more than a friend.





That's not true, Doctor.




























































































Why didn't you stay and tell the truth?

Well, it's true, isn't it?




































What do you say we try not to confuse each other?



Yeah, that's good.








You see, it looks like he killed a man tonight, named Conroy.






































I think we should stay close to each other.








































- Honey, listen to me.

























And he may have changed for the better.

You made a good try, Chris, but that's not what I heard.


















And yet they tried to kill me twice tonight. Why?


























































The reason for this unofficial gathering was the news on the radio tonight that you're wanted for murder.







Okay.



The doctors patched it up for me.






I can give you my word. - Okay.
















It's a good thing I remembered your names, Anselmo.














Okay...











You're among friends.







That you were seen on the dock the next morning, that you were nervous and upset.
















Phillips, darling.




























Only tonight.


I have a good place to put so much money in the market.









That's what you tried to do tonight.







Did you sleep with him tonight at the dock?









I take it back, about good, good character.











































Okay.



Okay. Okay.


























You've outrun everyone. Okay.
Okay.




You must be a good detective, Cravat. - Detective?





















No, in the morning.





















All right, jump in.


You'd better call and tell them you'll make it on your own.








All right, Beale!











































Okay, see you later.













































Okay.
Good morning, Martha.
Good morning, Eben.

Really?










Damn, woman, you're holding me up.







Okay, Martha, if that's how you decide to keep this model.








































Oh, you're very smart for a woman.













Okay.



Okay, and Sunday. Damn it!










Okay.





Because it's a good color.




Better get inside.





Okay.



















I have a lot of work to do.























There's a difference, isn't there?


And I deliberately chose this job here to hide from different people.

















Lonely people need friends, but they're so hard to find.














You're not gonna hide from me, are you?





I'll bring the boat tomorrow morning.








Most of my coworkers got a great job, high-paid.

One even offered a job with more pay.







Come on, I haven't shown you the best place yet.

Okay.










I'm going to a new job next week.












Okay.














Why don't you ever tell me the truth, Katie?







You want to get rid of me, don't you?

You know, darling.




Okay.












He's a good guy, Pat.








I'll bet you $10 I'll find out the truth.







Painting in the dark, darling?






Good morning.







She's pretty, isn't she?


Good morning.




















Really?
It's a woman's privilege to change her mind.




Really?




























It's true.










Your sister is a very dangerous woman, Katie.









Good evening, Mrs. Bosworth.
Good evening, Miss Miles.












































We're gonna suck 'em off each other.




- Good evening.
- Good evening.




I hope you enjoy the evening.



























Good evening, Katie, darling.






















Okay, Freddie.












































































Best guardian of the year and of all time.
Thank you, Pat. But you have a better guardian now.


Honey, I'll see you in 20 minutes.




I wish you all the best.




















Katie, darling?





























You mean this group of friends?



Then I have to admit, it's my work.












I'd like to see your work.



























If you don't like me so much, why did you offer to come and see your work?

And now that you've honored me and praised my work, I suppose I should begin to praise yours.
What's wrong with my work?



I bet you're not even a woman.






Why did you say I wasn't even a woman?

You can criticize a woman's work, but when you hint that she doesn't have a light...




Okay.























I think it's good.










If you want to make a living woman, do it.















I'm letting you be sharp about my job.




Come on, let's get to work.














Antisocial type, isn't it?













And when you're in the mood, we can keep working.














Very good, and you?












Okay, I'll see you later, Cathy.
Okay.



















Is this a new job?







Is your work connected to the beacons?
Remember last summer when I told you about the job my buddy offered me?



That's a good option.
He pays good money.



Okay, madam.



















Okay.






Okay.











Really, there's no time.







Okay.











































Men need women, women need men.


Only a woman like you can do something great.







Really!
That's better.









































Okay.




















Okay!

We'd better get back.


































Okay, ma'am.
















It's okay now.



















Okay.












You're gonna be okay, Mrs. Emerson, and you're gonna be a good wife to Beale.



Okay.



I won't be long, darling.



I've been waiting all morning for an answer to my call, and I just got it.

































Good evening, Mr. Emerson.
Good evening, Alice.

- I'm so sorry, my dear.


















Okay, Pat.













We were good friends.
















It's a very unfortunate incident, but I think after you deal with Kate's cases, you'd better go to Renault and stay there.



And get your dirty hands off my work.
Okay, okay!




Very good.






















You didn't really like your sister, did you?

It's true, isn't it?
No, that's not true.
You haven't been a part of each other since you were born.
And, anyway, why were you supposed to love each other?










Beale, there, in the studio, Katie's friend, is working on her portrait.
















Okay.











Good evening, Mrs. Emerson.
Good evening.



















Really?







You don't have to unpack until morning.



You've been in his room every night.

Okay, madam.




You have to be my friend.




















You're my friend.

Okay.


Isn't Elma the best chef in the world?



Really, Mike?



You believe that, don't you?














I think it's the best way to deal with it.
Pat, as long as you don't deal with Talbot once and for all, we have nothing to say to each other.






Hello, darling.















































You still love him, don't you?










Hello, my dear.


Okay.




What a damp night, isn't it?
































For a man like Beale, the truth is the only way.
























































- The doctor will explain.
- Hello, Mr. Doctor.



- Really? - Yes.































































The engineer's gonna tell you better.































"Purity is the key to health," the woman thinks when she cools the water in the bathtub with dirty water.
















































- What happens when they find good groundwater?










































































Christopher Madden is a woman.










Morning, noon and night all the time I wrote a book I know all about it:



You did a great job.
















We couldn't find anything better.


































































As that French guy wrote about the kids looking for a blue bird, they were looking for it all night long, but they never found it.























I sleep there. Everybody's very nice to each other.













Dear Mr Baldwin:

















Got a job?














I mean, a lot of girls choose a man that they care about... or give them social protection like Professor Metcalf wrote in her last book, a woman.


Is it hard for me to encourage him to work in a union?


I can make Joe feel so good that... when I ask him to relax and take me to Ritz's roof, he says,










But he says he likes someone better.







That's how a man makes a girl realize she's too good for him.



















It's okay.















It's just beginning to get back to civil life and build a better world for a healthy nation as strong as a single family. That's why you have to be more careful with girls. You need to know as much about it as possible.
She's gonna be a good friend of yours, a loyal wife, and then a mother, and don't let the fleeting impulses blind you. I didn't even think about marriage. I know, but soon you'll think about it. I want you to remember everything I told you.













- They like fun days, and that's good.






















































- Is she a woman?



















It's not gonna be easy any other way. Thank you very much. I'm... I'm sure I can handle myself. Okay, good night.





























Dear Miss Madden:



























Okay, I'll wait for you in your compartment.

















Find out if he can become a good friend, not just a loving, serious husband, but perhaps a father.




























































All right, take my stuff to my place. Where's your stuff?














- Some habits can be good.



Right, you still took her home. It was fine until we mixed the drinks. Great, but the vodka after the wine she said, she felt Russian.












You know, for a ticketless trip, you could be fined without a ticket, and for a company with the military, it's our job, you know?
Yeah, I understand, but I really did have a ticket. I don't know what's always happened. If I have to, I can vouch for Miss Klotch, the conductor, and I can vouch for him, the conductor. And you, I suppose, can vouch for him?















Good evening.
- Good evening. Good evening.




Freddie was right. He said nothing because an orchid doesn't make a woman feel important.




It's for you, thank you sir. Thank you. I'm sorry. I see friends.

I have a wolf appetite, hi, darling.
Hi, I thought I was dating your friends. Oh, sorry, Captain Rusty...?






So your friend, Admiral?




No, I'm pretty tight in the car, and I'm next door to your friends, they've got the fifth one.



















They admired the forests, the rivers, the lakes with their wives, their children, their houses, then they looked up to the sky, and they said,



















My friends gave it to me.







Not exactly... but we can't set Freddie up after he was so sweet that he gave us the truth to replace our Japanese medals.















- You can't while you're at work.







































- What are you gonna do if you don't die? I'm gonna stick around.











Your gyroscope better get the plane back to the hangar.















































It's gonna be okay.
























Yeah, kind of a family friend, you know.












It's hard to say how Rusty feels about women in an hour there's gonna be a B-32 from Kansas City.





















Oh, yeah, that's very good for the cereal harvest. That's good for Elizabeth Arden. Why isn't anyone driving?
























She doesn't know anything about cars, transmissions, transmissions, but every time something happens to this machine, it's very expensive.



















Seriously, I can't give it to you for $300. I spent so much on the spare parts I drove out of Chicago.





Well, I've been offered $150 for it, but the longer I keep it, the more expensive it is with Rommel's antiques marks, can I take a look at it?







I can't resist your car friends.




You know, it's a really good car with me driving.
Much better than a train.


A friend?








































































Really?












That's nice. Maybe it was even better.

If it happened under other circumstances, you kissed me because we're here on a meadow... in the sky the moon and the stars shimmer, you know, if we could get to know each other better about what we have in the middle of our tastes, our interests, our goals in life.







Oh, Rusty, it's just... it's not right to get carried away with this sudden impulse. You know I like you, I love you very much, but I think we should... et cetera, et cetera, can we stay friends?



































- First-rate job. - Thank you very much.






Okay, show our guests, but only good manners... but hospitality is common to Ortega.








You must forgive me, señorita, for my children. As you can see, they lack the mother's care. Dad's been telling me a lot of good things about mom since she died.


That pilot is just a friend of mine.
Dolores doesn't think so. She says, señorita is in love with that pilot who has blue eyes and dark hair and likes women.






- It's gonna be okay.








- Sit down. - Thank you. You have wonderful children, Mr. Ortega.




Well, I've only written one book about a man who can't have a relationship with a woman that he loves is a very important story, but does señorita have an experience like this?
Well, my eyes are always wide open, and I've studied a lot of books. You'll forgive my remarks, but I say from high age I'd rather get my own experience first and then write a book in life so messed up and a lot more.
Maybe, but it's better to live and create your own mess than hide your head in the sand, Mr Ortega. I see you're educated. Oh, you flatter me señorita so... I seem to have the wrong idea of love.




- Oh, that's what she did when I tried to make her jealous of señorita. She was a woman and that's what a man wants?


Señor, we don't deserve it. Don't be modest.


I love him so much, but he looks at me like a maid he drinks, spends time with other women, and when he comes home, he beats me up love and violence goes hand in hand with the señorita.




There's your kids!




























And you, Rusty Thomas, do you take this woman into your bugs?

















- Good evening, huh?





Yeah, in the parking lot, my two friends are there.









She's ashamed of her book. It's not exactly that, but I have my reasons. You know, you're the first celebrity to stay at this hotel. There's a legend about Buffalo Bill that he was here, but he wasn't registered.































Albuquerque, New Mexico, a woman was arrested by the police tonight... cashing a check on behalf of Christopher Madden... the famous author, the real Miss Madden is in Hollywood...


It's a lovely morning, isn't it?





























































I don't want to have anything to do with you. I don't need a woman teaching everyone what to do. I wouldn't take the one that says what I do alone. I need the one that needs me, the Miss Klotch who's in trouble.








She's not upset that she's in the middle of a newspaper scandal. She's still looking at cute infantrymen sleeping in pajamas with open windows. She hates makeup and art schools don't wear pink dresses. She doesn't eat tuna. She loves kids, Beethoven and Badminton.










Dear Keith, I don't really know how to write letters.



Rusty could have put it better, but what I can do, he still doesn't want to write to you like always, yours, Dink.


Dear Dink, I was surprised and happy with your letter.

Of course Rusty still reminds him, taking care of a woman will make him softer in mind and more human.


I'll try to get you a meeting with Dolores Moran, you have good taste.









Last night, Beautiful Keith Madden spent time in the company of a famous director who was rumored to be taking care of a star."
I must say, Keith looked great with a black purse and a feather hat. They sat at the best table in La Rue later she danced with a handsome man in military uniform.




Dear Dink, it's so good to hear from you, what do you mean by writing that I'm dating someone?
The French major was great, he's 32 he knows seven languages in three of them he asked me if I'd like to go to one place in southern France as far as the director is concerned, he speaks only English and says that I'm the only one who can cure him for having no love for women.











Dear Keith, I want to thank you for the wonderful time I spent in your house with breakfast in bed. I told Rusty what you were... but I still feel like he's in pain. I told you about your house.











So he's got a bright type, I'd like to get to know him better.

Oh, so that's what's good, good luck.



























Oh, yeah, sure, got it this morning you want to hear it?

"Dear Dink, a lot of pretty bugs will be at the reception next weekend, but I..."


















Yes, Captain dear Miss Madden, strike out. Dear Miss Madden, I...
















































The king got up at 5 a.m., personally wiped the dust on the front stairwell.














- I swear to you, I married a woman who's pretty, but tough, and they're making ropes out of me.







Don't judge me, my wife is a special woman.









Come on, friends, let's have a heart-to-heart talk.













It hurts, doesn't it?


















Then, like you, Cinderella, I raise from morning to evening!


I know you wanted to run away to the palace park tonight.


Do you know, my dear little ones, what this bastard was doing right now?























- I'm here, darling.





- To rest from doing your homework, darling.

Is it true that you spoke to the king?
It's true, my wife.



What are you, darling?























My dear little ones, don't be angry, don't fight.







You can, honey, you can, you can, yeah, but before you do, clean up the rooms, wash the windows, rub the floors, peel the kitchens out, fill the fields, put seven pink bushes under the windows, take out seven bags of beans, white and brown.


- Hurry up, darling.



♪ 'Cause I'm good ♪ ♪ I've been kicking my ass in the morning ♪





Godmother, dear godmother!











I'm not asking, darling, how do you live? - Did you get hurt today? - Twenty-four times!








We'd better talk about you.




- But I have so much work to do, godmother!
My friends are gonna work for you tonight.





I love this job!


Oh, thank you, dear godmother!

Thank you, dear godmother!






Oh, my dear, what a girl you are!










- Let's listen to him. Good boy.


Dear Cinderella, I watch you work all day.





Thank you, dear boy. I'll never forget how good you were to me.
Now remember, my dear, remember the most important thing.






Thank you, dear godmother!



























Old friends, of course, are good, but unfortunately, you already know them by heart.






- Really?






















Well, now, my dears, I'm gonna get an order to recognize you as the first beauties.































- Okay.





Get up, kids, get in the circle, get in the circle, get in the circle.
A good bug lived in the world, an old mutual friend.

Get up, kids, get in the circle, get in the circle, get in the circle.
You're my friend and I'm your friend, old loyal friend.

Get up, kids, get in the circle, get in the circle, get in the circle.
You're my friend and I'm your friend, old loyal friend.





- Make sure my daughters are in the book of the first beautiful kingdom, okay?







I was expecting miracles from tonight.







- How pathetic, isn't it?




A friend of mine... also a prince...


























And you're thinking about how good it would be to eat ice cream.




Dear Cinderella!









Best ice cream in the world. I chose him myself.

Thank you, my dear prince.



I've never met the best in the world.












Dear Cinderella.





























Well, okay, so be it, I'll stay.





































And find the bride by evening. Hurry up and march!






































- Well, Cinderella, well, my dear baby, my dear daughter.










Okay.





































- Where is she, where is she, my dear, where is she, my daughter?
- Here she is, Your Majesty, my dear son-in-law.










Uh... no. The kid's fucked up, dear son-in-law!
















































Well, friends, we've made it to full happiness.











'Cause I was joking, but, like a lot of jokes, it contained a fraction of the truth and the little cities that I made up the foundation of the nation, really, everybody looked like each other.



And people, well, maybe they dress me a little differently or something, but actually, they're just like your neighbors and you, I guess, you know, you know them all: cop at the post, kid selling newspapers, shopkeepers, lawyers, good people, bad people.

Every night, you can find him walking me through the lava and the face after dinner, the funny, the thoughtful, the kind word for everyone.
- Good evening, Father.



























When I'm dark and dark, I'm tight and we turn off the radio and go to bed every night.
And one morning, the black headline will stare at us.




























But his basic work was with the people in his district, especially those who needed his advice and recommended me.
And as he was God's man, his work sometimes led him to strange and secret places of human souls.
















































































- It's not gonna make it any better if everyone's okay with me.






















Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll get back to work.


































And um said they think this guy should have known Lambert's father very well.















Don't you like your job?








Come on, get back to work.















- Is that you, darling?




























Yeah, and you're not just gonna be like that, but I'm gonna tell you that you don't have kids to play with.
I'm gonna have kids around.




























- No evidence, no evidence. Keep fighting with each other and you'll find that every department in the city will take each other by the throat.











Come on, we've got a good cops.
One of the best in the country.



Mac, we promised them a good government.
















Harry knows this case better than all of us.































I want to get action, okay, let the other guy get me.



















I talked to them last night, I told them that if anyone could solve this case, it was you.



















The chief of police was close to the truth when he spoke of the number of possible suspects.

Okay, okay, I'll send the car.





























































































There's a man who admitted to you who shot me at Lambert's father on the evening of 29 September I'm on Lauren Street.




























- That woman is crazy.
















- I thought maybe he'd give me a job.


















































It's not good, I'm the one you're hanging around here.















































Good morning.








- It's as good as a night's sleep.

































































Come on, Doctor.



And you're tired of free food and advice and you resented people who had good jobs and money when you left the army with nothing.





















































That's too bad." He was a good member of the army.





























I wanted to get a job.







































- Okay, okay.









But good politicians, like good boxers, never leave before the final count.







- The League of Women Voters, sir.



Well, well, I'm always happy to meet a good member of the party.





































And you don't think any jury in the world would blame a guy who gave the best years of his life to serve his country?









Now we're gonna be... look at this job, I'm gonna go.










- He's a good guy, Paul.


















There aren't many good and honest people in politics.



And you're gonna keep working tomorrow.














Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The Honorable High Court of the State of Onnecticut begins its work and the court hearing is open to me.










































- I'll wait till 9:00 tomorrow morning.














Well, okay, I'll take John and talk to him, okay?












































































I don't know. I thought I set this case up better.




To ruin two years of work?













Are you okay with me, darling?



















































And on paper, it's not that good a look I'm doing, Harry.






















































- I know a guy there who makes a really good coffee.







































And you know perfectly well that I will go wherever you go, darling.



















The Honorable Court of the State of Onnecticut begins its work and the court proceedings are open to me.







Very good.













I mean, what am I supposed to show you that you're gonna give me the truth, the truth, and nothing but the truth, and help you?































As a matter of fact, if I'm not mistaken, you were so dressed this morning, Your Honor.



























Miss Nelson, your voice is that on the night of the murder...


And you were certainly able to say for me that the man you saw through the window at 7:20 p.m., 29 September I was accused I was being charged, John Aldrone?

- I can let that happen, and it's pretty sure I don't think that such a young attractive lady, how could you have a few friends of gentlemen?


And maybe so, Miss Nelson, that it wasn't John Aldrone, and the other friend of yours waved his hand to you that night?


























- He was at your movie theater last Tuesday night, last week?

On your honor, at 8:13, Tuesday night, last week, I saw two reliable witnesses, and I myself watched Mr. Thawne buy a ticket to the cinema and the Plaza and Miss Manion.










- Thank you. I'd like Dr. Or I'm R. Einsford to witness.

♪ You know what I'm showing you ♪ ♪ that you're gonna give me the truth ♪ ♪ the truth ♪ and nothing but the truth ♪ ♪ and help you ♪







I didn't ask you that, Doctor.


That's all, Doctor. - Thank you.


♪ You know what I'm showing you ♪ ♪ will be the truth, the truth, nothing but the truth ♪ ♪ and help you ♪








On the other hand, at 11:55, after I had finished my interrogation, Dr. Rynsford said that I had been accused of something, and you implemented your idea, for every free meal, for every piece of advice you shot him in anger.





















































- I went to 'Ertford last night. - Why?















Mr. Arvy, that was a good performance.
Very good.





















































It's their job.




















I'm here because of my job.






We read about you in the paper this morning.









- You know good people.

















Portway, please, and a light beer for my friends.














- I'm gonna love it tomorrow, darling.
But today I've already been invited by my friends, brothers Trudy, to the Dirty Dog.




































































You're kidding, aren't you, Fred?








Come on, darling.









- Okay, darling.

- The kids for half the price.







Tell you what, honey, buy two more tickets, and I'll be right back.







The kids are half-priced.









The kids are half-priced.












The kids are half-priced.






































































































- Maybe the card's been here all morning.


















- I'll be waiting for you at Pierce Palace. Sunday at the concert hall, 9:00 p.m.

- Okay.


















- Oh, there's our old friend.
- Good evening, Jim.
Good evening, Ida.
































- You're a terrible woman, Ida.

































- Yeah, last night.


But it's terrible that he died like that, isn't it?





I have a good memory of faces.











- Okay.


That's my friend's name.











- You and I are friends, Rose.







It's like a bucket. Come on, let's hear some good music.



We're far away from each other.
















- You're a believer, aren't you?




















































Come in the morning.














































- I think we'd better go to a place where we can talk calmly.




- Yes, my dear, with both of you.










If you want a job, we can talk about it.





Taking care of them is the best.


















- Is this table open, darling?




Potato casserole with meat, okay?



















- I haven't ordered it yet, darling.














- Uh... I'm a friend of Pinky's.



The woman asked questions at Snow Cafe.












































































































I'm having a free night.












- A woman.
























































I'll go to Nottingham tomorrow morning.













All right, your guys will recognize him.
































I beat them better than they did me.








- This woman asked about me, but I wasn't here.
























- He was a good guy.
- And it's a good thing he's in the world.











Macbeth, my friend.































It's gonna be expensive.

















































































When I was a kid, I swore I'd be a priest.





























- It's not expensive.



- Okay.



I'll tell you the truth.












- I see it well.







































Good job, she doesn't look like old daddy Pinkie.

























Okay.






































































I'll tell them the truth.





- Hey, honey.
















- Okay, I'm coming.












At least it's better than you.
- You're his friend, aren't you?

- I'd like to be his friend, too.








You're a good girl.


















- I'm your friend, silly.




























- Oh, no, no, my dear.











- I'm not done, darling.




- I wrote last night, before you came.










- Okay.








































- Okay, you can pick him up tomorrow.




Well, no news is good news, I guess.
















This time, I'm sure it's not good.



















































- Good evening, Jim.

- Good evening, Mr. Corkery.
Good evening, Ida.


















































- Okay, I got it.





- Okay.























Okay, Dally, you're just in time.












This woman says he wanted to get rid of me. She doesn't know anything about love.

























Good evening, Senator.
Good evening, Beckett.








Good evening.



























































Jim died in time, didn't he?









If I had the intention of bringing our... conversation to insult, I'd say you're one of the coolest and most treacherous women I've ever met in my life.



I suppose you should stay the night, but I'm asking you to leave in the morning.










































You're gonna stay a long time, aren't you?



Beckett will bring your luggage in the morning.





















Well, did she really say no to him?



I know they were crazy about each other. She played tennis here before he died.












































The next morning, Mark said Jim was sick.



































Signed by a doctor and a representative of the funeral home.












































































I'm really hearing this.

















And in the morning, tell Mark what you heard. Oh, no, I can't.






- Good morning. - Good morning.


That's good.
Good morning, Mrs. Demarest.
Good morning, Angela.


His political opponents are chasing him like a pack of wolves. Really?



Good morning, Julie.
Good morning, Julie.






















Didn't you think that if those sounds were true, anyone else would hear them? Beckett, for example.



You're too excited, my dear.
You're inclined to do that, aren't you?












Then Beckett's looking after me, but he can be very busy. You're not gonna keep anything from me, are you?

- Good morning, Mrs. Demarest.
- Good morning. - Miss Julie.
- Good morning.






Jim was very attractive, wasn't he?






































You think it really was Jim last night.


































Everyone's ever been scared, dear Julie.










And I thought it would be good for her to have a friend, but on the other hand, I can't shut up about her being unable to control herself.
















The Caldwell family has always been very proud of their women.

























I'm glad you have good taste for things.



I like women with sharp eyes... confident chin...









Don't you break up women into neat sub-groups on their mental behavior? You've already classified me into some category. A category?








So I was still impressed... good, I hope?








































Guess he's got a very exciting job to do when he's so late.















It's all about this woman? Who is she?











Are you sure about Dr. Reynolds?
Reynolds is a close friend of the family.




(WOMAN SCREAMING)










This way, Doctor.



















You really are an amazing woman.















And everything was fine until you arrived.


Everything she said about the creepy screams... it's all true.









I suppose... you'd better go.

















When Jim and Julie were kids.
I remember once, on Independence Day, we invited all the neighbors with the kids.


She let the other kids ride.

She laughed so loudly at that wet guy that all the other kids, too, started jumping into the pond just to hear her laugh again. That's the same effect she laughed at you.
















I was on the phone with Davenport this morning.














You've always wanted to get in there, haven't you? I did, but now...







I realized that I really like you, and I really do.


You won't forget that easily, will you? Nope.










Just like Dr. Reynolds and old, vetted friends, as well as the servants?



















Good evening, Mrs. Demarest.




I've already found another job, ma'am.























Have a good walk, ma'am.


Okay!









I'll stay here until I feel better.















- But it's true. Why would Mark do that?













He can't shut my mouth with money like he did with a doctor and a coffin. But he can shut your mouth another way.




































It's a good thing you didn't fall apart.
















The sooner we leave, the better.

I'll take a taxi to the station in the morning. The house is closed.







Really, I'm gonna be okay.








See you in the morning.










You want to know the truth, and you'll get it.












Ever since they were kids, I've had to take care of them, look after them, and all because of a disease that already lived inside them.
I took them to the best psychiatrists, the best doctors.



If you're telling me the truth, what really happened to Julia?



I guess Julie knew the truth about herself.









Really? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,













I was warned that under no circumstances should Jim and Julie marry and have children.
But it can't be true.




















































Maybe it's better that way.

















The puzzle covers 45,970 square feet, and the interior is fully made and decorated...



You've been waiting for me so long, dear.






Honey, you're a genius.



Photos of the big fair and parties, friends, celebrating the beginning of the 20th century.






Even if I did, he might not think I was a good investment.











Professor Henry isn't just our friend.
He was also a friend of your father's.




Very good.






Dad and mom know we love each other.







What, honey?























Cheeking women.


My dear.






Here you go, darling.


Pretty good, yeah.


























































































Oh, but the baby's great.

This, uh, kid has a father?





Oh, honey.


Venice... my baby, I was discharged from the hospital, exhausted, and without a penny of money in my stocking.



You know, in the middle of the day, I fainted outside, and that's where my friend found me.
The baby and I haven't melted with him for a minute.
And this friend of yours, he--



That's a so-called friend, who is he?










Well, okay.







Honey.







No, darling.























I really don't know any Gemma.


















Okay.










Your so-called white rags are baby diapers, my young friend.


















Of course it's her baby.















Gemma has a pretty good voice.












You know women.





This Palace is the residence of my friends--
















All right, everybody to the fountain.




That would be good.
























This family is Carol's friends.







But she's got good gloves-- that's my size.













Does she really love you?



I didn't know you two were more than friends.


'Cause she's a woman, she'll love you even more.











I know women.
You don't want to go alone.












It's what a woman really needs to be wanted, persecuted, let her feel that she's--




Very good.







Okay.






We can't take a little baby with us.










I'm gonna put this thing in early in the morning, and in exchange, I'm gonna deliver it to Fenella.






Every morning you leave your little house, you'll have a great diplomat full of contracts and music, and Fenella will wave goodbye from the top floor.
And then, when you have kids,



But you'll have a very good life.
Why wouldn't she be good to you, too?
My dear, Gemma, Carol is a good, trustworthy man from head to toe.














But in a few years, you're gonna grow up, and you're gonna be a big and strong handsome man who makes some women very unhappy.



















Well, that would be a very good deal.
I'd take care of his kids, and he'd take care of me and Piccolo.




Very good.






















Well, okay.




Isn't that right?
Okay.








We'll be in Orzano tonight.
And tomorrow night, Martino.







































Oh, Sebastian, I think we better find another way.






Okay, I'll go first, then if I start drowning you'll know that.





What are you trying to do, drown my baby?














Oh, there's a cheap and nice hotel.








Okay.













You're better than him.






Um... pretty good... and not just for the price.
Sebastian, you better go to the hotel and see if they'll let us sing tonight, huh?
Okay.

Hmm, you should be ready to be the manager of a woman.


It'll make the concert better.






You had to use Gemma's baby to make a deal more than once.





Oh, yeah, you better wear that tonight.

He makes you look like a woman.
Well, goodbye, kids.












He's probably making eye contact with some women at this very moment.




Women are nothing but a parsley for Sebastian.




But I have a baby.





I mean, is a woman crazy about the profession or the person she loves?








My dear Caryl, do you think love will be pleasant?














He seems to think I'm insensitive, there's no blood in my veins, there's no need for happiness like other women.

Carol, I think you'd better stay home tonight because of your knee.
Then you can take care of my baby.
Okay, if you and Sebastian can do without me.















I need you, darling.












































Did we do a good job tonight?

Pretty good.









I didn't mind your flirting with that woman.


What woman?




Yeah, I know, but, Sebastian, we won't worry about it if you calm down and write. I know you can-- really good music.
Gemma, darling, to write really good music, I need... inspiration.





















I have to take our fee from the hotel manager this morning.






Do you really think I looked attractive in that dress tonight?











Good evening.





















You know, I think every woman looks a little like a flower, don't you?













Good music or just a harmonica?
Anyway, if she's really good, symphony, opera.








Beautiful, isn't it?




I'm really interested.



















I really think so.
I knew it wasn't just a coincidence or an accident that sent me to look for you tonight.







Very well, then.



Well, okay.
















I'm spending the weekend with my friends, if that's what you're interested in.






















































































I have no idea where Fenella was last night.







Last night, I don't have time to listen to this.








Okay.















Woman.


















































Maybe you deserve a better man.
But I don't need a better man, Sebastian.


Oh, Fenella, darling, you look great.





















I'm gonna get a job.





Where will you find such a job?



London would be better, I suppose.
My father has a lot of friends there.

That would be a good acquaintance for me.
Will you marry me if I find the right job, Fenella?
But I can make you happy, darling.


Last night, I--





















What now, darling?



So, Sebastian Dubrock, you're taking this woman Gemma Smith to be your lawful wife?






















My job at Steinech brings me J200 a year,





Okay, okay.






























Gemma, put the shilling in a meter, did you, darling?





















Okay.

If the baby's okay, I can keep it.






But when I finish my job, I get 12 shillings we can spend them, I guess.



















That's a good idea.









Very good, my boy.




You look adorable, my dear.




Not at all, my dear.












Never spends any more of these nights.





























A woman who knows what she wants.









You'll be better off.




















You're an evil woman, and you've completely ruined our relationship.
























Very good.
But you have to understand that no woman can hold a man like Sebastian unless he wants to.






Honey, I have some good news for you.






Okay.





























I just changed the music to a permanent job.





Sebastian, like his father, is a big, cruel man, and a windy man who leaves no one alone... a woman apparently never leaves him alone.
















Okay.












His music is always good.















Yes, but my child is very sick.



Okay.
















The baby is very sick, and I was so scared.

Well, get him a doctor.






It's a stupid, ambitious woman.




































He'll be right there, darling.




Kids always have earaches or something.



























The baby's sick, and I'm tired, and I don't count the shilling for the gas meter as a condition.

I have to go to Surrey County tonight.


She lives there with her friends.






I know you're too good.























































That sounds like good advice, Gemma.









Do you think he's a little better?



























You have to marry Fenella and be very happy and live in a cozy little house, and every morning when you go to work, you're leaving your little house, you're gonna have a gorgeous diplomat full of contracts and music, and Fenella's gonna wave goodbye to you.





And the father has to go to work and the kids have to go to school, and then the kids come home and they play.








Oh, but not tonight.

Tonight is very expensive.


















Okay... parties, rooms full of flowers and music, good people.
Oh, good.


I didn't mean to, darling.
Oh, it's gonna be great, isn't it?





I think there's a lot of good in it.







Because I'm taking you home, my dear.














- Gemma is my type of woman.

What do you want, a good marriage, and a good husband--
Now you're using that word "good."


Friends?

Good friends.


The baby died, and you and Fenella...
Good evening.





Have a good night.













That's better.





Because it's so easy for people to say they're sorry, but no one can say what it means for a mother to lose a child because she's the only one who understands who can imagine a person like that he'll grow up.















Maybe, maybe, in time, I'll be a good man.
But I don't need a good man, Sebastian.






















You don't talk, you don't make friends.












Beautiful, isn't it?















But if that's true, then you should be ashamed.

Why don't you have fun with everybody like the guy from Brooklyn doesn't make friends?
A guy from Brooklyn makes friends easily.



That's when I see you having friends, then I'll believe you're from Brooklyn.




































Oh, yeah, that, really, may be hard to believe.









She moved to England as a child, but she remembered Brooklyn her whole life.








- Really?

































Really, Danny?





























I had some good ideas.


































































It's a good day, isn't it?
There are no good days in Brooklyn.













I'm gonna get back to work fast, and I may not have time later.



That's a good sign.
Not that I don't think it's gonna be okay, but right now I'm pretty sure it's gonna be okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, you are not setting a very good example for our little guests from school 65.



I think we're gonna start with this two-vote experiment, okay?






















Yeah, sure, I was distracting the kids.














You know what I thought, right, and why?
Yeah, sure, that sounds like the truth.






Brother, you're not joking, are you?































Just no more than one nail for each, okay?






























It's your first night home.





































Would you be able to make a veal like the one that's preparing for the arrival of dear guests?


















The children of these Schneiders grow up thinking that the sky is made of bones.


The truth is, Danny, you're gonna do me a favor.






You love this guy, don't you?
I like him because all the kids loved him.





Well, why do kids at school love you?
































































You didn't get this job, did you?


He was in a good mood, by the way.

"Great. You need to audition, and if you pass it, it's your job."




I'd rather be back on the shipment.









You're gonna be okay.

















































His lack of work deprived him of his energy.
















Really?



So happy to be the one you're in a hurry to see at the end of the day.






Feeling better, huh?



Really, the only thing I didn't take into account is me being the same guy I used to be.












And more than that, she hates her job.
Teach the kids?
How can you hate teaching children?



















If that's true, it's for the best.



























Hate your job and stop singing.




If you hate teaching kids, maybe that's why your voice is so cold.
Maybe it'd be better to be interested in them than in yourself.



















You think I made a very good impression?












Because they don't want to admit that they like each other.
Okay, I admit I like her.




















Very good, thank you.



Jamie, this is Nick Lombardi, my best friend.


















Anne, this is Jamie Shelgrove, my friend from England.































Here you are, he said he was doing his music aimlessly, and he's looking for exactly the kind of job he likes to make friends who meet people.


































I should have told him the truth.















Why don't you try that job?








What if I'm with you and you sing to me, to your friend, to your friend?


















It's a good thing I went with you.














Last year, the kids asked me to sing in their finals.









And take the best love songs.










You can sing as well as Bing.























It's expensive.






You can start work on Monday.

It's okay.






If the treasurer misses the meetings, it's not very good.



Let's drink to Danny's new job, okay?




Okay, I've been dealt with.
There's still, really, another unfinished business called Jamie.















You're not gonna follow one person's opinion, are you?




























You don't think I'm gonna sing it alone, do you?





























She really likes him, doesn't she?










We're made for each other.












After all, a man must find himself a woman.








He's your friend and, in principle, I'm not bored with that.






Good night, Danny, it was a great night.
















































And I can see clearly what's so precious to me, and at the center of it, you're my queen.





- Good job.





























Oh, really?


















Okay.




We haven't talked much, really, and all we've learned about each other is that we both like spring.


- Really?
You really think so?





Your kids were smaller than my Danny.






Jamie, if you really liked someone, you wouldn't be afraid to say this, would you?






































So happy to be the one you're in a hurry to see at the end of the day.








That's even better.




























Leo is my best student.
















There is, really, a scholarship that could help him, but he's too young to get it.


























- Really? You think it's gonna work?



My dear Miss Fielding, I have no doubt that the boy is wonderful, but I still don't see the point in auditioning.





Last night, we said we were gonna help him, and they're gonna help as soon as they listen to him.





























Okay, I'll try.





























































Okay.

You're coming to the Cardos concert tonight, okay, Mr. Roberts?



Okay. I'll see you there.













You haven't seen Annie in a while, have you?















Why do people love each other?





































I think I'd better go change.






Okay.







- Okay.



You know I love you, right?




You love it, don't you, Jamie?

He's my best friend, Anne, I...




So I wouldn't fit him anyway, would I?










Anne, darling, what can I do?




We thought Leo Cardos was too young to claim her, but tonight, thanks to the efforts of some Brooklyn citizens, we realized that real musical talent is not limited to age limits.

















Everything you said about Brooklyn turned out to be true, Danny.


- Yeah, I'm going back to England in the morning.






















Truth be told, I don't need Jamie at all.















































She wouldn't believe I was from Brooklyn until she saw I had friends.
I don't know anyone who has more friends than you.

























But you'd better hear how it happened.





























I understand that you'd like to travel, but it would be much better to take care of it immediately.






















I thought you'd better take a look at it.



We'll take care of you immediately and you'll feel better.


















- It didn't hurt that much, did it?







































And as we have to keep repeating myself over and over again, that a person should address me to a doctor as soon as he discovers anything that could be a sign of cancer.
































































The purchase was left behind, but on top of it was a tin or copper bowl, and since then the children have been baptized as they are now.







































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Children aren't interested in this at all.










- You'll be late for work!



We need to get pasta, and we'd better get here first.







We have four children.







- Really, you're gonna make us toilets?































Children in shrubs and lice, seven people in the family, they sleep in two rooms, they don't have a lira, and they bite their nails at noon."














I'll tell you tonight.







I don't want you in bed when I go to work.







It's my fault the garage opens at 12:00 and he has to go to work now?






- Okay, I better go, 'cause it's not gonna end well.


- Okay. - We can finally get some sleep.


'Cause one day you're gonna get a good one if you don't get up at 8:00.






















What am I gonna feed the kids?













But I have five kids.

If you have five children, tell that to your husband.













You have children, too, but my husband doesn't make a living on the black market.





How am I gonna feed the kids if you don't give me pasta?











































She was the one who incited the other women.










- But it's better to press charges.

Who knows how hungry these poor women are.


It would be better if you stayed and repeated the list of missing products.




A WOMAN FROM THE POPULATION OF THE FOREIGN SPECULAGE 150,000 LEAGUE STRAPHA, FREEDOMED BY A WOMAN FROM PYETRALAT




But next time, we're gonna need to get dressed better.







































I have kids. Give me the plate.



















- Okay.







Angelina, the kids are gonna get sick.


Kids can't stay here.


































We have to sleep on the street with the kids!

















The truth is, you don't want complications.
























- Okay.





















































- Work is under way, there's a deadline for delivery at home.










Or should we get a cold on the kids?





Okay, as you wish.






















- You're turning the kids against me?







- Don't say that in front of the kids.


How can you live with a woman like that?

I wish I'd drowned that day!















- We'll get better tomorrow.






That's not true, because basically we love each other, but we fight all the time.









Yeah, that's better.



















- Good evening, Signora Angelina.
- Good evening.

Okay, if you're not in charge, I've got a lot of orders.















Our program can be expressed in two words: work and bread!










Bread, work, wine and ham!















- The kids are here!



























































I haven't eaten anything since this morning!


I'll go to my sister-in-law and bring her here. See you tonight.
- So I won't eat tonight.
























We need to exchange ideas, get to know each other better.




























Instead of letting strangers go home, this lady is better off.
Yes, but the lady has five children, and my wife's nervous.
We just don't get along.
Really, Benedetto?




























Mommy, darling!





At first, it seems like they want to give you bread and work.









- All right.















































































- Okay.




































Now that the flood is over, the work must continue.


- But if he's broke, who's gonna give the workers a job?
















Signor Callisto is a good man.









- And it was so good...









We'll leave tomorrow. Come on, get up, take the baby away!
































But you're good with your hat.


















If you need to read something from Callisto, they'll be better off.
All right, I'll take my glasses.








Mommy, what a day!



















I have to take care of your business too, I don't care much about tonight?








When it was necessary to have nine children.
Nine! If it wasn't for July 25, I'd still be making kids like a machine gun!
Did you forget that it was impossible without so many children?















He's not only capable of arresting his wife, he's also able to send all the kids to the electric chair!






It's tonight, just to ruin my evening.














- Good evening, Luigi.
- Good evening.




Good evening.





















The kids don't listen to me anymore.




If any poor bastard loses respect for his children, what's left of him?















- Good evening!


















- Good evening!
- Good evening!


So we're having a proletar night tonight.






You're lucky you don't have kids.


Not yet, but I can tell you the good news.

There was no one there at 9:00 p.m.







Good evening.
- Good evening, Signora.































You don't like tonight?
It took a night to make me realize what was wrong.



I'm the one who's ashamed to have friends who judge a man only by the way he wears and how much he earns.
None of them are as good as you.





- Can I tell you the truth?



What did I say? We need to get to know each other, and the misunderstandings will disappear.








You're a woman who's practical, smart, who talks when you have to talk, and knows how to keep quiet when you have to keep quiet.




Well, given that reasonable people are supposed to help each other, I've decided to give you a little gift.


























































































Isn't that your friend's motorcycle?













She set up her kids.








































Think of the kids!










WELL WOMAN FROM PYETRALAT ARESTOVAN

























I only feel sorry for the children.





































First he says that he doesn't want to hurt you because he loves you, and then that he can't remain indifferent to such swine, I'm sorry how to put five children's mother in prison, guilty only of trying to stop her from doing the dirty thing.





- Okay.











































































Wait for me here, okay?

- Okay.


















I'm gonna transfer the complaint to the kids.






- Bye, Luigi. You're a real friend.






























And even if, as you say, it's my credit, that now we have a house we didn't even dream of, I realized that it's not a method to work as a deputy.

I care about my kids.


Husband, different cares, children...










































It's better if you don't talk, 'cause I'm the one who decides.




















Everything went wrong, and we still love each other.





Two people love each other, and yet...




















With this kind of job, you can get bald before you do.























And I'm slowly getting old in this job.


































- Where was the best?







That's good.





























































- So tomorrow morning?








Never mind, darling.























I wanted to, but I kept putting it off because there's nothing good about it.



So, our friend Markham lived in New York.











He wanted to forget everything, but his friend decided to figure it out.












































- Okay.














- Okay.




This is my good friend, Jeff Markham.

















- Tell him, darling.

































I'm José Rodriguez, the best guide in the world.
- Really?





- All women are like that, sir.











But why would you do that if you don't have anyone to say, "How beautiful, isn't it?"




- Really?















I knew she wasn't coming the first night, but I was sitting there... waiting.





- I've been here for the second night.






















I know Acapulco a lot better than José Rodriguez.












All right, let's go.





















































































































Really!








- Really?










- Nice shoes.





















Whit, there are millions of women in this world, and they all look alike.




- You gonna find one woman out of a million, Joe?




































A rat hole that was quite suitable for my job.













































They deserve each other.






You have a good memory.






Give me $40,000, and we're friends again forever.



He doesn't care about a couple of shrapnel in his stomach and a woman who took $40,000 and Jeff who didn't do the job.
But he's not gonna like you living with his woman.







































































































- No, you better.























I know women well.










































Just go, okay?











Really?



Even better.



- Really?


Even from the old house, you can make candy with good repairs.

















- Tonight.





























I'm fine.



















All women are wonderful, they inspire men in their exploits.






















Your sister is a wonderful woman.



























He's not that good.
































































































































Of course, darling.














































































































































Leonard Ils, a lawyer, was found dead in his apartment on Fulton Street this morning." So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, u
























































If you think of anything better, say it.



Good guys, aren't they?














































It's better if you turn her in to the cops.




- I'm not setting women up.




























































































































































































We deserve each other.











You knew him a lot better.




Nice friend.

You'll order us, won't you?
















The doctor says I have to go south, but it's not that simple: I'm married, I have a job that I can't give up...
- What job?





















I'm sick of the army, but I don't think Paris is much better than...





















As long as I remember you, the women have been following you...


I noticed that women always like bastards.









You're a woman's success.

In Paris, a lot depends on women.






























Madame Clotilda de Marelle, my good friend.













The woman with the knitting is his wife.

















We care too much for our children...


- It's not just our children who suffer from censorship.






























Talking about love always interests women.











I'd rather lose... 20,000 francs.
The Duellans are no better than the killers, they should be punished no less cruelly.
I suggest we take my friend Marambo's place.

















- I'm busy this morning...


























When I saw you last night, I kept thinking, how lucky this Charles is, she's beautiful.
No woman would find your words offensive.












Our best and closest friend, Count de Vodrec.







My dear friend.

My dear friend.




Nice friend!











He is Madeline's best and closest friend.
















She's too good for mediocrity.















I think I'm gonna call you "Dear Friend."




Okay.


Tomorrow night!








- Do you know this woman?







































My dear friend, I give myself to you and my inexhaustible love."




















I didn't come to you because it's better.














Now, after this surgery, can we just be friends?

If I met a woman like you, I'd love to marry her!


So, we're friends. Can I speak frankly?
























Remember that we're friends and have me as you please.




- Goodbye, dear friend.






"George Durois asks Madame Walter to accept these fruits he received from Normandy this morning."






- I prefer living women.

- A dear friend will always support us.

The woman has a great advantage over the statue...






There are also faithful women in the world.

Somewhere in the distant corner of the planet, there must be young, beautiful and virtuous women...
No woman is worth her price, even if you get it for free!
























I turned 16 today, my dear friend.










A good man, loyal, honest...















And the kids, didn't you want to have children of your own?






















Listen to him, my dear friend!







































When we were writing our first article, when I was talking to you about my column, "Echo," I was thinking about life, where work and feelings go hand in hand, about a happy couple, and I was hoping that that kind of life would make you happy.

















Don't you have another woman?














It's a good thing you came so early.



































Your news is good: I might be able to find out something about her old husband's business.



















And you, sweet friend?
You're gonna let me call him Pretty Friend?



























































- You don't look like other women.

Women are terribly stupid.










Isn't it funny when a woman like you marries a blind man who doesn't even see her beauty?















I think you're the only good woman I've ever known.


Nice friend!
























Last night, I accidentally overheard my husband talking to Laroche-Mathieu.











I did a black job for them, and they're gonna get all the money!













Besides, the services you gave them cost more.











I was bored: we were driving too far away from each other.





You were with a woman, and she wrapped her hair around your buttons!













My dear friend, I give myself to you and my inexhaustible love."












He sent for me this morning.




He knew me as a child and knew my parents.








Okay, I believe you.


Okay, we'll give up the inheritance.


















































Ah, here you are, sweet friend!































































Daddy, with his millions, I need a better name than Georges Durois.


Good evening, Your Excellency. Perhaps you and my wife will join me?



- I'll file for a divorce tomorrow morning and give you your name.





















Goodbye, dear friend.

























I love a nice friend and I want to marry him.












You've got him all the time, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him. From morning to evening, all you hear is, "Dear friend, dear friend..."













I mean, I could do better than that, but in terms of mind and career, I doubt it.






























"A woman is only a reasonable toy that can rise if we drop her." ( "Miss de Mopin" )




For what do we pay the highest price, for which we fight, for which we rip each other out? What can be achieved only by outstanding intelligence or luck, self-restraint by insane effort, determination, insolence, or hard work?










The self-interest in the work is still better than in the work of women and love.













































- Okay.




















I'm afraid it'll rain until morning.




















What happened, sweet friend?







































The Duellans are not allowed to approach each other directly.

A good cigar calms my nerves: I don't need any advantage.

























Nice friend!

Do you hear that, dear friend?











































I'll see you later, my friend!

















What's going to happen tonight? I was so excited!





Really?




- Really?














No, I think it'd be better...




Do you two get along?











Dumbass, we're old friends, we grew up together.
We know childhood friends.










To tell you the truth, Maurice doesn't understand me.











What the doctor prescribed!




Really?



My friend, may I present my compliments to you.





















- Really?
- They're good, they're the best.



























Is that good?








Two nights in a row is too much, old man.





Until 10:00 P.M.?




























































































Isn't that right, Genette?






Okay, well, she was afraid I'd forget.






















- Okay, Monsieur Moray. I can do it at the gallery.






Good evening. - Are you okay?











I'm really sorry.








Please don't hurt me! I thought everything was gonna be okay.

















You're the only one who knows the truth.






















Oh, old man, and it was tonight.

- Didn't notice what? - Really?
All the better.

You really didn't notice anything?















But it's all true, I didn't kill.






























- Your truth, I'm an asshole.




Shouldn't we tell her?



























It's weird, you've been mad for two weeks that there's no job.



Not before a woman comes in here.






















I was in a competition for the best face.









Some woman did it.



You're gonna think I'm bragging, but I brought one blonde that night.



I don't care about their crimes, it's their job.













































Oh, not at all, it's a very good profession.








Is it true that you're great friends with Mademoiselle Monier?
Yeah, we're friends.

















































Okay, thank you, darling.



































To trust a job like this...









































The sooner we figure this out, the better for everyone.



























Wouldn't it be so hard for you to tell me where you were the night of the murder?

I spent the whole evening in Paradise, it's a little musical hall.
















Look, have you really been to Paradise? Of course it's weird!





















What are you risking? You're telling the truth.
Grandma's life, you're gonna believe it... and you're never gonna talk about that night again? I promise you.




I swear I was in Angien that night.












That's who should take good tone lessons.
I don't care about him. So Martino's been at the gallery all night?


































Was that Monday night?













































Okay, I'll see you and Martino in five minutes.




























































On the evening of Wednesday, December 2, 1946, I came to the Laperus restaurant to tell him that I resent his behavior.






The day the crime was committed, I came to Paradise, where I spent the evening.





- Good evening, ammo.
- Good evening. Did you hear the Assistant Chief Inspector's question?









Not so good. He didn't sing that night, he got sick.























And I said to him, "I didn't have the honour to sing in your establishment, but it's better to give up once and for all."

Good evening, Madeleine. Do you have a new address for Seldov?





What's that? Tonight you'll find him at Medrano.






















It's better not to have anything to do with you.










"I went to Brignon's that night."







My friend, I was born on Antero Street, in a strong cold, in an unheated two-bedroom apartment.











What did you see that night at Brignon's?









You have a great job.


























Okay. Thank you.











It's better to die, a real pulmonary inflammation.

















That's better, it's dark, nobody's gonna see me.







Yes, darling.



Dora, now listen to me carefully. Enough, I want to know the truth.

Okay, you'd better know everything.
He was at Brignon's that night. What?











- Nothing, darling, sleep.






























I have to go to the Cathedral of Paris to make room for midnight Mass. I'm gonna make the kids happy.
All the places are sold out, and they're playing in private at nights like this.





I've been home all night showing the tape.

However, the taxi driver, at 11:00 p.m., was carrying a young blonde who was dropped off on Burdone Street.








You're a serious woman, you're not interested in affairs.










Is there a woman you dropped off on December 2nd at the twenty-two forty-five?

Or are you afraid of women?








Don't tell me. First you don't recognize your passengers, then you don't notice the intersection in a rainy evening.






























Buddy, good buddy.







Where does your buddy live? Your good buddy.






I can't remember, really.


Okay, my kids.























It's better to be in your place than his.






















Okay. Why don't you stay with us?



Do you think they read the papers on Christmas morning?







My dear Camille, it's none of your business.



That night you left the house at 21:00,












It's very simple... the better!



























That's better.


Eighth? - On the night of the crime? - Yeah, it's possible.















Bravo, my children!










I'm gonna leave you for a while. If I'm not here, the kids are gonna start freaking out.







Come on, my young friend.


































You're crazy! My wife was in Angien that night.



































Apartments, of course, aren't, but it'll be better in the cell tomorrow.





















































You shouldn't have. I felt so good, I was so far away.



















It's a real surprise night.











Don't thank me, I'm doing my job.



But you'll never see a good friend again.
















































































- All right, I'm coming, Mom!


























- You really think so?




- You think I'm good enough for that?







It's a good tune, but it's a bad setting.

Come to the store in the morning and I'll give it to you.















It's better to get rid of it quickly.










- Nice night work.


























Good morning, Mrs. Spray.





































Okay.









-..seven years of hard labour."













- All the best.









No pubs and this job.








Oh, honey.















Here's a good copy for the lady who's passing by.



You can try it on in my charabana, Mrs. Woman.



I have the best choice on Petticot Lane... London's market )
















































A good way to spend Sunday morning!





























Why don't you put your kids in line?





If you wear them in the morning, you won't regret it...
- Good morning, Mr. Hayams.
- Good morning, Mr. Fozergill.








What else am I supposed to be if I work until 3:00 in the morning?





















He loves his job.




































What am I supposed to do with them? Playing Santa Claus with all the kids at Bethnal Green?








I swear on my life. Sadie's life. Your child's life.











Not very neat work.




































- Don't be so good.












You know, a smart little girl like you deserves better than a gas plant.






You want a better job, of course.







You were joking about the job, weren't you?











Fresh, only cut in the morning.


























All right.

















If you think Lou Hayams is spinning around offering girls jobs and flowers for their sake, you're crazy.


Really?

Anyway, you don't have to take this job.




















Nice duck weather and assidistry! (Beginning................................................... Plants )


























Ted's busy working in the garage.










The sooner I leave again, the better.



I'll get you out of the house tonight as soon as he goes to the pub.



























































He's a good guy.




- Oh, good morning, Mr. Fozergill.






You guys have expensive requests.



We can't drink regular beer with you, can we?
Really? Go, four bitters, please.




































































You have to be really good tonight to get somewhere.














Will you be a good boy if I give it to you for free?

Don't you want me to be a good boy, too?

What a morning!



- Bad morning, isn't it?



Have a good day.
Good morning, Miss.































Nice rock.




























I must warn you that assisting an escaped criminal is punishable by two years of forced labour.































Too bad you can't find a good guy like him.





- But there's a man who gave it to me.

- It's true, Dad.






























- Get off your rostrum, okay?







Depends on how much I earn from Chuck Evans' fight tonight.























Tommy Swann was here this morning wearing dark glasses and a long black beard.














Someone offered me a job, and Ted thinks he did it with a second thought.









































You better put something on.










































Look, Sid, come to Palace tonight, we'll talk about everything.

Okay, bye.

He lost his job because of his illness.






Good girl.



She told me about your job offer. I'm warning you, get away from her.




















So you think I'd rather stay at the gas plant?




Good evening.











She told me about your job offer.

















Good evening.
































Mr. Nisley, sometimes you have to take a product like this, not just a good one.










Okay.


We'll bring them in in the morning.










Okay.






































- Okay.






Good evening.




















Doesn't he go to Bow Street on Sunday nights? Yes.















Good evening, guys.













Hello, darling.


































He's spoiled like a child.


Of course, he needs tea in bed every morning.








- Isn't that right, Morrie?




























A good sip of Guinness will cure you.

























I don't understand you, darling.












- Listen, darling.


























No, you... go to Cape Town or something... and find yourself a woman.































































All right, Sergeant. I'll warn the people.
























I live in a small town. Days are like each other.
I like to come to the wall every morning when I go to the market.























But it's still chilly in the morning.











































Okay.


































He's a doctor.





I didn't know he was his friend.












Really, you.








I'm a doctor now.






Really?























- Okay.






































- Dr. Guo?







That's so good!






































No, it's okay.


























Tell me the truth.








- The weather's good right now.











Really?




















Really? Amazing.













Good morning.

























Good morning.































My wife is a good woman.














You're my friend, will you help me?




Lion is a good man.









































Why? It's good here.
















- Really?





- I'll come tonight.

Okay?







- I knew her as a kid!






Okay, I won't go out with her.









- He's a good friend.
- He's better than me.





















- All right.






Good morning.










She's just a kid.





















































































































I'm gonna be okay, but I'd rather die.

Tell me the truth.




























































You're a doctor, save him!



You're his friend, save him.








Tell me the truth...





















No, it's better this summer!








The film is dedicated to the Unknown Child, all the children of the War Fly.

























Long, you're not gonna leave your friend, are you?
































- Stupid! We'd better look for a hawk.
























































































































I'll tell you in the morning.









































Good morning, gentlemen...

The peasants are looking for some kids.



I said I didn't see any kids.





















To fight the children?
I called a doctor to do his job, not criticize my actions.






















Okay, you can read.
















And that dog didn't ask when one morning in the woods... found out he was coming for me.










Okay.
































If something really bothers you or the other way around is so good that you don't know how to say it, you can say it all in music.















































I'll beat the truth out of you bastards.


They're just kids.














Good morning.


I don't want to go to the village yet.
















































Pick up four or five guys by tonight.


















































Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.

Very good.



























Can you offer me something better?


















I saw him this morning.






Keep working.



























Guys, Kuxie needs a doctor.




Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
























































































The defendants are children by occupation, and their homes have been destroyed by the war...




The rock with the ruins belongs to them... and all the children who need a home.
























I think it's worth a lot of money.




































Okay, Mincha.



















All right, then, look at the watch on the fireplace.



I went to bed very early last night.


















It's true.




















Honey, no, not me.

No, darling...






















It's true, I swear, you understand, don't you?





















No, darling...


































I think it'd be better if you took her, darling.



She doesn't look like a woman's dog, you know, she wouldn't calm me down.

She's better off if she's with you.


Okay, honey, let's see.


Don't worry so much about it, you can say it's a friend's dog.



Okay, okay.









Listen, darling, I have a favor to ask.





















Better get some sleep if you need to get up early.
In the morning.


















No, tell me the truth, please.


















I knew he wasn't home tonight.





















Look, honey, I've never lied to you, have I?



















I swear, I'll tell you the truth.



Last night or night I don't remember when...










Martha came at 4:00 a.m. with a doctor who lives in their house.


No, Martha stayed here until tonight.


I gave myself my word that I wouldn't bother you... I'd like to let you go quietly, say goodbye... as if we were going to see each other the next day. However...................................


I suffered, but I should have heard your voice, how much better I felt.

















































No, I just said it's good to be with the people you live with.











But it's even better to do what I do, just ignore her.

















































We'll never see each other.





























You're the best saint, you know that?












'Cause if it wasn't the Lord's will... you wouldn't have been trusted by the Lady of God with the baby.











My dear St. Joseph... you must take me with you to another world.



















































































If we had kids, I wouldn't be with you right now.


























































































God loves us all, but it's always better to get the priest's advice.






































































Okay...




















Yeah, yeah, poor women...








































My baby.








How did your friends escape?








Who helped your friends escape the country?



















Good evening, Dr. Ravik.
Good evening!


Okay.



















Your friends at home are lucky.

And Klaus doesn't have any friends left.
Living friends.







Schultz. Friends call it the harbinger of death.























































- Even better. Take it.



















Okay.




















You'd better take off your coat, it's soaking wet.





Okay, I'll be right there.





















We didn't have a chance after we worked as a midwife.





The dignity of a man, the beauty of a woman... the innocence and temptation of love... and the abortion in a dirty basement. - Then death.













Colonel, that was a good joke.
Or not? Very good.







You'd better go back in the roundabouts, or you'll run into someone on the way and start pumping them off without a passport.

































You'd better fill me in.

























































Last night he was here by the wall.














































Well, the rest is police work.











Okay.
















It's better than a place I don't know.






- I think you'll be fine here.











Actually, it's better to write it down.












This was left for Dr. Ravik.


- A woman.

- A woman or a lady?




She said the doctor's bag that lives here.
This lady came out of your room one morning.




















This evening we leave to join the glorious army of Generalsissius Franco.





The Germans in Spain are our friends.





I think it's best if you go back to your friends.




























































It's good to get bored like that.












































- Good evening!












On our first night, it was the hottest drink ever.


The waiter had a tattoo of a woman on his arm.

























'Cause his poverty and his work put a stake in courtship.





























You see, the lady's memory is better than yours.







Dr. Gunter?















It's a good hotel.
I just moved in this morning.


































































- Coffee and brandy. Okay.


















- Okay.





















Good morning, Monsieur Ravic.
Miss Adou didn't go to work last night.














Okay, we're leaving. Where the sun shines.




















- That's good.
- Yeah, that's good.

Tonight at the casino, it'll be clear.










- Go on, swim, these are your friends.
They're more like your friends-- you've known them longer.






Why do women have such idiotic conversations?





- That's good.













Okay.








All right, get in.















That's it, okay.










Then we'll go to the most expensive restaurant, order caviar and champagne.


I want to believe I'm gonna marry you, we're gonna have kids, a house with a garden.

And so we still love each other... after 20 years.


























If I could close my eyes and open them, find that no danger exists anymore. A lonely woman begging for fate...


It's a good thing you're back in Paris, Ravik.

I'll come by tonight.









The balka got the woman, she's bleeding out.








- A woman dies and you leave.




Wait a minute, Doctor!














Is it necessary if the master has just helped a woman?







- I'm so sorry, Doctor...





Can I use that phone before your friend comes back?


Okay.
All right, Mr. Vodzek.

























































- Good morning, Mademoiselle Adou.
- Good morning, Albert.







You should get back to work.






Men don't like women in the mood.
Miss, you'd better turn off the lights when you leave the room.














He said he was a friend of Monsieur Ravic, so I asked him to wait for you in your room.







































Okay.




When did she quit her job?













What happened, darling?




























Your friend is probably starting to worry.




















That's good.






- Okay.
















- It's true.











Because of your work, I almost lost you.




My friends, you're doing a fake job.










It's a good thing you came.



















































































Good evening, sir!

- Okay, monsieur.

Good evening, sir.














- Okay, monsieur.







The woman you're waiting for.











- Be a kid.
























It's my job to notice things like that.


Cognac is the only good thing the French have.















Beautiful women.

They're nothing compared to the woman you just spoke to.



It's hard to meet a woman like her.






In Germany, we wouldn't allow ourselves to be connected to such a woman.






















I'm waiting here for two friends, our luggage is already at the station.




Are these your friends?







It's my job.






























Sometimes he doesn't want to know the truth.










































In expensive hotels, night porters don't ask questions.


































Let's talk about something else.
Okay.


She comes to my hotel every day, every night at the Sheherada.


Let's talk about something else.




Good evening, Miss Adou.













Okay, Joan.




















My friend, at nine, I'm supposed to be in North Hall.
















Okay.


This morning, the English ambassador to Berlin handed the German government an ultimatum, which says that if by 1 a.m.

























Dr. Ravic!
Dr. Ravic, wake up!















- Okay.








Okay.





















- Doctor!











Okay.








































Doctor! - How is she?












Tell me it's okay. I can't feel anything but pain anymore.




































Doctor!
Dr. Ravic!


Okay.




























Okay.



- Okay.






Dr. Henry Bernhardt.























And the fact that there was a pigeon on the table could be a good treat.


- Children, be reasonable.



- It's not for kids.



(Fr.)...................................................... Okay, okay.










Twenty-one forty-five - 21 : 45. That's how the continent stands for 9:45 p.m.






It's better to notify the other services.





9: 45 what evening?























(his............................................................... No, I'd rather do it myself.


























9:45 p.m.





































- Is that your job?






























Maybe he's a good man.




















Okay, madam... or mademoiselle?



















It's all right now, Dr. Bernhardt.









For better understanding.


- Are you Dr. Henry Bernhardt?







The world is full of peacekeepers fighting each other.






- All the passengers in the car are under arrest. You'd better start packing.




















Notice boards to search for lost friends, relatives, displaced persons.















The police here were trained and executive. Work permits were issued, travel permits were issued, and the regime &apos; s enemies were called to account.









































After Dr. Bernhardt left, you entered his free compartment.













- So is Dr. Bernhardt.

















Dr. Bernhardt was a man you've never met.






What do you think of Dr. Bernhardt?

The occupation is good. I don't have a definite opinion.

The view of Dr. Bernhardt?


His knowledge of people left much to be desired.

- No, thank you. - My doctor gave me 10 a day. But I didn't say what size.
Your doctor probably doesn't know people.









It's an honor, Dr. Bernhardt.











































Okay, I'll try.

















You want a good leather belt, Lieutenant?
Curious, where did our friend go without his own opinion?

















What is it, my friend?











































They want you to be in your zones and fight each other.




























Dr. Bernhardt, missing on the way to Berlin, intended to unite Germany.






I met him with Dr. Bernhardt.
















- It's okay.























It'll be very good for you if you bring her back. Don't... don't talk to me like that.



(his............................................................... This way, Herr Doctor.













































You're a better detective than me.






























He knows better than that.


(his............................................................... She's home. (his............................................................... With your best friend.























This woman was involved in the kidnapping of an official.





















Maybe I should talk to Colonel Jones.























Doctor!
Doctor, what have they done to you?



Miss Mirbo, we want to convince Dr. Bernhardt to discuss with us his plan for the future of Germany.















Doctor, then you can call another one.


Yes, Doctor.

It's not very good for the allies, but very good for us.

















- No, Dr. Bernhardt.





But I know something better than you.








Maybe, Dr. Bernhardt, but not now.






































































You know my terms, Dr. Bernhardt.






































I'll serve you well.











- Thanks for tonight.










- Okay.


Okay.




But the Germans don't know. We have to think about the doctor's safety.











- Perro! - Yeah? - We'll change in an hour, okay?















- He feels like he didn't do much for the doctor. Stupid.






















You'd better get some sleep. - Look...


I'd better get back to calorie count.



























I wish.








Our friends here, the heroes of events were about to break up.











We need to stick together.










If these people hadn't intervened, Dr. Bernhardt wouldn't be here as your official guest.




It's a good thing.






I'm handling the addresses a little better.



















Some 36 hours ago, I was down there, crossing the hall on my way to work, and I didn't touch anyone, and I was looking forward to the family's first vacation in so many years.
36 hours ago, I was a decent, respectable, law-abiding citizen with a wife and child, and a good job.









- Good morning, Betty.
- Good morning, Mr. Straund.





















































Really!





















Oh, hello, darling. Yes.




















All right, sweetheart, half-first at Van Bart. Yeah? Goodbye.























I suggest we launch a prize contest for the best subscriptions on the theme, "How can we keep peace in the world?" I don't know.





























Good job.





























Was it better to stay in Virginia and get $50 a week?


Would you like to be a married woman who didn't have a honeymoon?









Just cleaning up, darling.


























I'll see you tomorrow night.






Even if it cost you a job?




- Tonight.



















I see a stranger in your life, a mysterious woman.






- We're friends.
Better say, we were friends.
I didn't think he had any friends.


You know, after what you said this morning, I thought we had a lot in common.
You know Jenott at work, I know him out of work, and together we...























Not on the honeymoon, darling. I know.



Then you come back tonight too tired to at least talk to me. Then you're going to Oan-Franzisco to have fun with some tunsucker.







But I'm telling you, honey, it's gonna be different now.















The Versailors are finishing their work. Green.















































A friend behind a wall, and we walked forward.

















You're not gonna find a job in any magazine or any other publication.





- Very good, thank you.


- Yes. - There's a woman asking for you.
















































You'd better bring two more triples.













I sacrifice my entire career for her, and she can't wait a few minutes.


































































- Good evening, Mr. Straund.

























Hey, Burt, pour it to my friend, President McKinley.











He's Judge Gooddy, Dr. Ibolit, Christopher Columbus and Theodore Roosevelt.


Okay.

- No, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay Nice to meet you, my dear.


















































Okay, just hurry up.


Hello, darling.


- Did you have a nice night?



































Especially when it comes to my friends!




You think you can make one woman happy?








She was one of the most generous women in the world.


I really don't know.




































Listen to me, darling.






We're out of work and nothing.
It's too great to be true.




But, honey, I had a thousand things to do.


Forgive me, darling.














































He was in town last night with a blonde.


















- Good morning, Mr. Genot.
- Good morning, Tom.



We have Van Bart and Burt's... if, of course, Pauline was telling the truth.




Okay. Are you sure you don't know this Randolph guy?









- Good morning, Mr. Genot.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mr. Hagen. - Good morning.



















Last night, he spent his savings on a blonde.





























It's not gonna be easy work.







Anyway, you're a secular couple who showed up to freshen up early in the morning.




Wouldn't it be better to send someone more suitable?






















Girl, I've been trying to call Butterfield 8-35-97 all morning.

































Okay. Way to go.























Clothes are a single-bore gray suit of good cover, blue tie.













Okay, stay there until the bartender shows up.







Try to find out where they were last night.














I'll send him to talk to Patterson. Okay.









You go, coordinate the work.



- Good morning, young lady. - Get out of here.


































This man bought one of your paintings last night at an antique store on 3rd Avenue.







































Really?
















































































































The maid found her this morning and called Steve.


















































































All right.






Listen, my friend...










He's one of my friends.





















Last night with a blonde.
























It's nice to see someone likes my work.























You weren't so nice last night. And they took the painting from under my nose.














Nice work.














Hi, honey, I knew you were coming.





In my office, darling.










Honey, it's a very long story.











































Okay, Steve.




























































































- It's better than killing you.



Why did you even contact this woman?





























He's an actor and he's a friend of mine.
















































Nice work. We're coming.



























































Earl saw her this morning.























































Mike, honey.














































Dr. Williams is getting ready for surgery, which I won't allow.
































What the doctor says, I'm in his hands now.




















































I have to say, Rom and the women are very dangerous.




That's better.




Even the doctor says...




































































































- But she's just a kid!




































































But be practical, my friend.















She's supposed to be good, and Marty?
































Mario is my dear friend, I'm so sorry.





Brother, I'm sorry about what happened tonight.





























































































































How's Dad, kids?
- Okay.



























You go your way, I go mine.






















Stupid job.
































Okay, listen.















































He writes like a three-year-old.




















The best people.
- Okay.




























- Okay.




































But you made me a good offer.




































































Is it true, Marty?
Really.








































- Okay.











There are other children.






One woman took her with her.

What kind of woman? Any sign of him?



Is that good?


























































It would be better if she cried only for one of you.




































































Leave me alone, be a good boy.















Have a nice day.














































Okay, Martin.






























We'll take him where he goes.


















- Not in the morning.








































We've assembled all the doctors.


My job...








- But I have a job to do. I'm late. Boss can't stand it!


At 2:30 a.m., in a 54th Street car, one of the men with gunshot wounds received medical treatment.
The licensed doctor is required to report such cases to the police.

We're doctors, yes, but...














Doctor, this money is from Niles' safe.



Come with me, Doctor.

This way, Doctor.























We saw a woman take her with her.



































It's tonight you have plenty of time. - Give it to me!



































































I knew nothing good would come from this...


































































We love each other, Tina.






























Nice place.








And a doctor with a sick wife.


















































































- Good evening.
- Good evening.





























































I'm gonna beat you up.




















































































Okay...



































You're never really scared, are you?




One morning, he tortured me.






- So Kay's your friend?
- Yes. - I don't have any friends anymore.


I'm your friend.
























- Okay. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm gonna go.





















Okay, then speed up.
















































- Really?








































- Okay, and you?




- Hard work?




















Good evening, Aunt Maria, how are you?











Good evening, Uncle Aaron.



- Why don't you call a doctor?







Then she's got an okay. I'm an extramarital kid.



- Spa, because it's good.





















































Don't you want to see a doctor?



"In the early morning, we'll go to the vineyards, P0 (M0TRIM, RD) (TIPD (TIPD) (PY VINOGRENDY P03D), Ra (Krulpie (P.O.S. R., R) (P.O.D.

































I'm staring at you.






I'm never a woman.







































Well, I'll go wake him up if that's what you want.
Life isn't like that.
You're very mip, darling!







- I bought a pack this morning.











Yoran's my friend, and you're his wife.


Forget it-- Yoran's my friend!




And I know he's your friend and friend.





Nice breasts.
But not as good as mine...


Maybe it's for the best...






It's not okay when your neves kick your ass.


















- And you, darling?
























I really don't understand.























- Of course, darling!










- What are we gonna do?



- Very good.























Okay, I'll help you.





























- I'm on my way, darling!

















It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it.




- What's up? It's better to go. - 0, yes!




- Honey, you're amazing.


















No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,








- Good evening, Maria.


So am I.






















"Bo swims every morning." "I'd like that, too."





























You know how capricious we are women...



















- Okay, here we go.














It's so incredible that poodles kill each other!


The baby is the center of the neck...

It's possible.


It's hard to understand why children come to this world.


























- And poop in. - It's okay? - Yeah, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's
- Yeah, it's very good.






What do you feel when you have a baby?




























Yeah, we are.




























































































Nice mouse.
The best.














































































































All right, let's take a look in the other box.













































He was baked by a friend of mine.





































































I've got a lot of work to do.



















































Now we're gonna turn them into kids again.




















Doctor, there's a lady on the balcony.







Das is my friend, Brigadier General Mike.




















































































































































- 3-4, but this one's the best.
- What's that woman's name?






























































































































Yeah? I asked this morning, said it went to Nuremberg.


















































































































You know better than I do.













Good evening.






































If you want to know what to look like, don't listen to women.









- Let's go back to this woman.





















In the morning, I'll ask him again.





























- All right, let's go to "O."































Social security number? Yeah, I want to make sure he doesn't do subversive work.





















To tell you the truth, I wanted the same thing.
























"Listen, my children, as through the midnight world























Dear Congressman, you didn't burn down the shelter.












It's best we don't see each other again.






Miss Frost, Congressman, postman, darling, I'll go crazy knowing you're here, and we can't see each other.










Can you imagine how good a feeder he is?

I don't even know your name, dear Congressman.


- Isn't that ridiculous?



Good morning...
Good evening...











There's no better picture.







Okay.










- Okay, okay.

























We're expecting a baby.
- The baby?




- Good morning.
Good morning.







- That woman.































Maybe it's late when you're done.



Good guy.





































It's better than losing your head.











Women choose what's fashionable as hats every spring.




Johnny, we don't have to hurt each other.



































- We have a building in the morning.
Are you coming tomorrow night?









I wanted to be alone tonight.

It's okay.







Good day, gentlemen.



Good evening.















I just wanted to buy lipstick and mascara, but the woman on the wheel had this dress hanging, and I gave her my typewriter for it.




I wanted to be so beautiful on our last night, and I look awful!

















- Really?



















































I'm not that good.












- Good evening.























Isn't he beautiful?




This is our last night.






























It's so good here.






Okay.

Take care of our friend.











































































- Good.



- It's better than that, sir.



































Someone in Berlin told him that his woman was dating an American.






Okay, I'm gonna go.











































What was it like for women when the Russians entered this town?



And through it, there's shelter, work, food, and...










He's a good guy.






































































Okay. I'll put it here.




Gentlemen, I have been informed that there will be no flights until tomorrow morning.





































































































Listen!" Look, my children, like through the midnight world.















And you're gonna get a job.

Oh, my God, this is a real job!



All right, all right, there's no job for you.







Do you have a bicycle or not? If you don't, the other guy gets the job.







Remember, no bike, no job. Remember?






I found a job, but I can't do it.




And it's a great job!
Okay, we'll take care of it.


I'm supposed to be there in the morning, or I'm gonna lose this job.
















































You'll start tomorrow morning.





- How'd it go? - Okay.


- There's a job for you.










































She predicted you'd get a job.


How can a mother of two have a head on her shoulders, believe in some nonsense, stupidity?



Some woman... you could spend better money.

For giving me a job?

























Wake the baby up!







I'll see you tonight at seven.













See, Richie, to do this job, you have to be smart, you have to have a good eye and speed. That's it.




















































You can be sure we're doing everything we can to give you a job.



Really? Where was it stolen?






Baioko, we've been here all night!







Is that true?




Don't cry... you're like a child...

We'll get him back. Isn't that right, Antonio?












Okay, we have to split up. It could be taken apart.

No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,






















































Hey, man, we're all honest here!












































A lot of people talk to each other...





















- That's a hell of a job for a lawyer.








Lord, we are your poor souls... calling for mercy. We endure trials... and follow the path of grief.




































- Okay, but I'll go with you.
















You'd better go.





He couldn't have vanished, could he? I couldn't. We'll find him.















































Okay?


















I lost all of this. After the first day of work.























Dear boy, you are very ugly.

There are so many other women around.














Okay!










Now listen carefully: If you didn't find him in the morning, you'll never find him.
















And with the baby!






































































You'd better go!




































Instead of blaming him, they'd give the boy a job!



















































You set a good example for your son.

























































When he's angry, why did he send me the key to success and start with the truth?












But weirdly, the weapons of darkness, wishing to destroy us, Poroia foretold the truth to us and, with honest nonsense, lied to us.





"I thought it was my duty to inform you of this, dear friend of my majesty, that you should not be deprived of your share of joy without knowing the greatness promised to you.










Oh, darling,










When Duncan falls asleep, the hard road tired,

















♪ He's better than living ♪ ♪ he's dead like he's perfect ♪




















Will they not believe, when we are blood-sleeping, we shall use their daggers as if they were their work?











Friend.





They're part of the truth they told you.















































































Just the kids in the middle of a fucking trembling.














Know about this case! No, I'd rather not know myself.







You must have been in bed late because you got up so late.



Sir, good morning!
Good morning, Lords.












































































And if the truth is theirs, then why don't they come true upon me with their proselytizing and my hope?
































What the threads loosen in a bunch of worries, the death of the day, the price of hard work, the balsam of heartaches, the second shift at the meal of nature, and at the feast of great life, the best meal!
















To abandon the house, the name, the wife, the children, and... run?



We're giving you dinner tonight, and I'm asking you to be.




















No, it's better to be with the dead, to whom we have given peace and peace than in the eternal defect on the bed of torture.



He's not scared. He's not scared. He's not scared.


































And be happy with the guests tonight.
























You are the best of all thugs;























The best color of the country would have been gathered here, if our noble Banco had been present.


That's the truth, my dear friend.
I drink to the health of the entire table and Banco, our friend!






Friends, sit down.




































For the rest of the night and the better health of the King we wish.





The sun's waking a little, the morning's arguing with the darkness.



















I will possess the castle of Macduff: I will deliver the sword of his wife, the children, all the souls that belong to him.



None of the women who were born will hurt Macbeth.











Is this all true?
Yeah, it's true.









































Every morning he shall strike the sky, and the cry of the orphans, and the groaning of the poor widows, and the heaven shall cry out, Goodith, as if he had compassion for the grief of Scotland.


















Well? Okay.
And the kids?







They are led by the good Siward, the best warrior among Christians.

But in the desert, I'd rather get through my words where no one can hear them.








So are the kids?
The wife, the children and the servants, all they could find.












I can't forget what was more important to me.


























Is He not born a woman?

"Don't be afraid, Macbeth, no woman born will win you."


















But where are the companions of old age : Honor, love, crowd of friends? Alas!










How's your patient, Doctor?









And the Shadows, Doctor, left me.

Oh, if you could explore, Doctor, the disease of my country and bring her back to health, I would make the echo of the mountains praise you.








I've been awake with you for two nights, but I haven't been able to confirm the truth of your testimony yet.
Doctor, I saw her jump out of bed, put on a night dress, unlock her desk, remove his paper, fold it, write it, read it, then seal it and go back to bed.

















Ugh, my friend, huh!





You're gonna ruin everything with that fear, my friend.






































But if it's true, hang yourself.
My determination has shaken; yes, the devil is an ambiguous speech now is clear: he is a true liar:


If what he says is true (i.e. the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Resurrection.

















You're born a woman! All I'm laughing at is the glitter and the bell is in the hands of the woman who was born.

If you fall not from my hand, I shall be troubled by the shadow of my wife, the slain, and the children.





I'm enchanted, I can't hurt a woman born.








































Hot summer sidewalks playing kids, buildings with their bare stones, people without makeup.





















And while some people work... others finish a pleasant evening.




















It's an hour later. Six o'clock in the morning.
Some children wake up at 8 a.m.
Some children wake up at 7 a.m.
Why are you waking up at 6:00 in the morning, baby?




"But, Paddy, darling, don't forget."

Now it's time to go to work.





- See you tonight, Mac.












It won't be a normal day for this woman.













So it's quieter here... the Homicide Unit is doing its job.



- Good morning, Lieutenant.


There's been no hard work since yesterday.
- The woman drowned in the bathtub.


- Okay.













- Good morning, Lieutenant.


The woman's name was Gene Dexter, 26 years old, single.















Didn't that woman drown in the bathtub, Doctor?





















Let a good man earn his money.





- How do you know, Doctor?





- Everything, Doctor?



















She was such a good girl.

- She's always been nice to me.










































Okay.











- Okay, Shaffer, you write this down.





Then to the doctor.

Okay.

- Okay, I'm coming.








There's a job going on that requires a runner, Detective Jimmy Halloran, an expert in this case.







The doctors are Lawrence Stoneman, his office in Shaffy Building.

















Is Dr. Stoneman here?





Take a better look.


























Maybe she told you about her life, friends?



Okay, I think that's it, Doctor.




































She was found dead this morning.





















Have you ever visited a woman named Dexter?


We were good friends.



She helps me out sometimes in my job.
- What's your job?




Only sometimes are awards when she does some work.
- What job did she do?
























































































- Okay.














And... there's some interesting information about our friend.






Just between you and me, you never told your fiancée that you and Miss Dexter were such good friends?


I wonder if there's anything else you haven't told us... or told us the whole truth?





Okay.





Okay, but why did you lie about that?








- It's very good now.


Okay, what can you tell us about Mr. Niles' business?





Okay.






Okay.


I told you where I was last night.


- Okay.



You're just doing your job.







Gene was my friend.



I play bridge with my friends on Park Avenue, and I cheat.


It's true.










Oh, good.
Well, Mr. Niles, even though you told me so many fantastic stories... you told me the truth about where you were last night.
















For $50 a week, I kept my wife and two children.



































I suppose it's the best way to hold you.







And this man was my old, old friend...












































































You're about to get a good cold lunch.







- So early? - Listen, darling.




Well, okay, I'll reprimand him.

You have to give him a good stabbing belt.








Well, he's a brave kid, Jenny.
I don't want him to be a dead kid.




I think it's better this way.



I can't just go up to the baby and grab the belt.




It's not a woman's job.
- Why do you think it's a man's job?
- It's always been a man's job.







Work.




I don't like your night job.
























































We don't have any other children.









She was a good girl.

It was my fault, I couldn't get her a better life.
















You babysit, raise him... spoil him, love him, and then end it.
























- Okay.










- Okay.







Okay.





















































It's 7:30 p.m.
















This briefcase he sold this morning... is a hot trail.


















































Okay, now you've done better than that, Jimmy.






























She's one of those successful girls who has an apartment and a job.



















Look, darling.






























Do you really think Frank or I have anything to do with Gene's murder?
- I'm just doing my job, Miss.








































- That's good.

Oh, Frank, honey.



Oh, my darling, my darling.










I think it's our friend McGillikaddy again.





While you're making up a good story about what happened... tell us what really happened.













































- Frank, darling, please.








Where did you get the briefcase that was sold this morning?







Is that true?
- Frank, is that true?





You bought a ticket this morning.










- And the briefcase you sold this morning?












We're getting married tonight.




















Should I call the old doctor?
The doctor's here, the nurse's here?

Doctor's gone, nurse's gone?







- This morning... the kids who were swimming in the East River found a dead body.




Monday morning.
This guy died between 3:00 and 6:00 a.m. the same morning.

























- All right, kid.


- Okay.


Good idea.














































I'll send Fowler and Constantino to you tomorrow morning.










































Okay.





- This kid's got steel nerves.


We don't have children, and my wife is angry all the time.


















Okay.



























Okay.






















Dr. Lawrence Stoneman.
Dr. Lawrence examined my mother a few years ago.





















It's true, kid.




This is Dr. Stoneman.























Oh, okay, listen.




Okay.

Listen to me, Willie is a very good man.
He loves kids, he's cute.
Kids always ask him to play harmonica.




- Where's Dr. Stoneman?

















Good girl.






Now tell Dr. Stoneman they want to see him.



I'm gonna lose my job because of this.
Doctor, they want to see you.

You have to, Doctor.






















































Call Dr. Grenard.

Not my wife, not my friends, not my lawyers.








I don't understand much about medicine, Doctor... but I'm sure this recipe has never cured anyone.





Who did this job?








































































































I'd rather do it properly.









A crowded bus is better for you than a taxi.





Okay.





































Okay, Garzah, you're an excellent acrobat!



















- Your breakfast's on the stop, darling.


- No, nothing. - Good morning, Dad.




Have you forgotten, darling?

With current prices, children should save money.

Don't spend it all on women.












- Bye, darling.











You think the Olympic Mutual Insurance Company is gonna collapse if I don't go through her door every day at exactly 9:00 a.m.?







I had a baby.



- When are you coming home, darling?


I quit my job at exactly 4:00 P.M. 6:00.












Bourneo's greatness, rubber plantations and dark women...
It sounds much better than the glamorousness of the Olympic Mutual Insurance Company...







Bye, darling.



Good morning, John.
- Good morning, Mr. Forbes.
- Good morning, baby.



What were you doing last night?













- Good morning, Maggie.
- Good morning, Mr. Forbes.
- Hey, buddy.


A few good words and some money for a good job.








- Good job.







































- You got another job?

Bring me the call list, Maggie, and order me a service car for tonight.


Bye, buddy.














































It's not a good diamond, but it's my first engagement ring.







You come to work every morning and do what you're told.


Tonight, when you're drinking beer with your friends, you're gonna say:


"But you know me, I only do business at work."






- Of course it's your job.


















It's my job.




I don't think we're leaving till morning.



Looks like you're not in very good shape.
I was going to go to South America this morning.





















- It's fun, isn't it?




That's a good idea.



If for some reason you want to get away from the world, the best thing you can do is go to a bar after noon.
































Hey, buddy.


I'm not unfriendly, I just have a lot of work to do.









She's pretty, isn't she?
I have another job for you, Mac.

Always happy to have a new job.













As they say, what the doctor prescribed.

Look, Mac, do you want this job or not?

We can't let women get in the way of work, can we?











There could have been a problem at work. McDonaped?

Funny, isn't it?
I met a good man who wanted to help me, and there were problems right away.
- Are you saying I'm good?
















That's how you described yesterday's man, that any difference is just for the best.









- Stay out of my life, Mac. - Okay, Johnny.
And don't get me near my house.




Yeah, okay.

















My friend is sick, I want an hour off.
- Okay.



























All right, Johnny.




Thank you, goodbye, Doctor.




Much better, thanks, Maggie.







Much better, thank you.


































- Really?
Okay. Then go home.





You forgot him that night.




- Yeah, you know everything, don't you? - Really.






- Thank you, darling.



Really?










You have one of the best houses on the block. Safe.








You don't have to do that in front of a kid.



























A lot of work today?

















- Good morning, Mr. Forbes. - Good morning, Rachel.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Eileen.

- Okay.
- Have a good day, Maggie.



























Everything else is okay?



















































Terry, can you lend me a car for tonight?















I thought I'd rather be here than on a hot and hot beach.









































































I just thought you should know. Thank you, Mona.



You risked losing your family, your job... for what?






Isn't it better if she hears from me?





































































Better not, darling.














Just take good pictures, and you'll have good dreams.

It's gonna be okay.






He thinks you're the best man on Earth.





























- It's fun, isn't it?
Look at each other like this, no bars.
Maybe it was better when she was.


A friend of yours kindly lent it to me.






































Women's teachers! The people of Mars!
You're right, darling.

















Okay, I'll be careful.
















Okay, Mom.

I'm about to get a man from work.


































































Yeah, okay, thanks.
























I thought they were just gonna scare each other, that's all.







- He was a good guy.

























- Okay. - Thank you so much for your cooperation.

You'd better fix that hole in the window.




It's gonna be okay.


















































Maybe we should go to the D.A.'s office.







Causes...................................................... They don't seem that important right now, do they?



























I'm not sure there's much to hide from a kid his age.






Man has always been a good husband, except for 24 hours,






Of course I do. Okay.











No one who's ever been a kid.
That's a lot better.
It's a lovely evening.






- Okay.



We really have to keep it for the posterity. Really, he's made of beautiful crystal, and I didn't want him to be incomplete.





Good Americans usually die young on the battlefield.









And for the best.



I wish it worked.




I don't know, I think everyone's better or worse.






























You're not scared anymore, are you?









- That's good.













- This is the final stage of our work.


























I'm turning our work into a work of art.



I just thought we'd better have dinner here, right here.






















We're paying attention, aren't we?














Okay!












Oh, I don't see why you throw good money away.


Good evening, Mrs. Wilson.



















I've got too much to do to get into the details, my dears.





















Tonight, Mrs. Wilson, you will have the opportunity to repeat that night.








































































- I finally got him a good place.








































It's not an hour of work.



- I knew I had good taste.












That was great, wasn't it?





- Thank you, okay.
- How's the new job?























We broke up a hundred years ago, and I'm engaged to his best friend.










































- It's good to be here, darling.
































Janet, darling.


















My father used to drink a glass every morning at 11:00.















David is her only child.
He's my only child, too, but I want him to grow up.



















































- Your game's getting better, Philip.

















- I hope it's good.
Did you tell the good?










- Good champagne.














- Really?









































Okay.







- Really?




- Really?





























If I were you, I'd love to get on the pastette, calories, darling.





















- Isn't that right, Brandon?








It was Sunday morning late in the spring.




But that morning, his movements were a little tender.













In a moment, you'd have turned each other's heads instead of a chicken.
- Really, Mr. Cadell.






Dear Mrs. Atwater, the cool turn of the story and a couple of seats in the front row are yours for murder.









They're already walking through the blade of a knife, just like bird lovers, little kids, and scratchers.





- But we're gonna kill each other.



It's not seven, we know it well, but still.






















Good and evil, bad and good were invented for middle minds, inferior people, because they need it.






















I think it's a good collection. I mean the first editions.



















He's such a slippery devil, isn't he?
















- Remember when you wanted to give me to a friend?







Well, you and David were best friends, and now you're not, and I'm guilty of everything.




















You love David, don't you?























Some women are going to be angry, Janet, but unfortunately, not you.

















I think I'd rather...











- I could have predicted it this morning.













But when I got back, they were chasing each other.





I have a double job.



I made it all there, in the living room, so good!












































- Okay, Rupert, I'll ask you.

















You... you're more against the truth than ever, Philip.








One morning I saw you do it, remember, you're a good strangler.






- Okay, I didn't say.






















I'm a new woman, perfect as a watch.
It's not feminin' at all, darling.
Maybe, but I prefer femininity to good manners.






















- Okay.
Right down the hall and left, darling.
















































I think I heard David talking to Philip yesterday morning.









You can put the books back when you come clean in the morning.
I didn't think I should come in the morning.





- It's not a good time to talk to her.









David's not a kid anymore.













I'm sure our dear boy will suddenly appear.








































Thank you for your wonderful evening.


Come on, it's over. Yeah, I can't imagine better.



























Mr. Brandon had a wonderful evening.
But I had a stupid night!
Keep drinking, and you'll have an even more stupid morning.










Yes, please give me the key to come clean tomorrow morning.

- Yeah, we're going tonight.
- Oh, good.














Better close the curtains.






































Brandon, it's not loaded, is it?

















That's a good idea.
























I'm very pleased to sit here with a nice cocktail.






You're going to Connecticut tonight, aren't you?


And only one friend is written off.




































You're better at this than I am.



Or better yet, I'd invite him here.


























































Wow, how can simple facts turn into wild fantasies, right?





Philip, you'll be much better off in the fresh air.

It's a quiet evening and the weather is great.










- Okay! Calm down.









































Remember, you and I said that morals, good and evil, bad and good don't need a superhuman.
















































...fishers, women, scavengers, masons, fish buyers.















In domestic affairs, women think of their men who have gone to sea. The boat of this family has sailed into the sea for centuries. Since Valestro's last name came up.
Women worry about Grandpa and their brothers. And they're also thinking of a father who once didn't come back from the sea. It was the same morning back then.

I'm looking at my brothers. I always don't have a soul when they're at sea. I remember the morning we were waiting for Dad, and he never came back.













The sea tastes so bitter,' said Lucia. Because of the fish buyers, the job seems even bigger.







With this stunt, we've got enough work to do for a month.













It's too expensive.








12 hours of work... but you can barely feed your family with the money you've earned.












Isn't that right, Antonio?
























But when the time comes, I will find a good husband.











Wine, bread and oranges... last night's work-- that's what lunch is worth.

We talk to each other, we write letters to each other...












































...and now that we're out on the dock, we're gonna negotiate with the buyers. So the boys can take a job that only old people can do?






This morning in Achi Trezza, young men will have to deal with fish buyers.














Their cases have failed. Only the most useless fishermen are left to work. The best young fishermen were arrested with Antonio.



























And I wanted to be the first person to bring you this good news.









Antonio, you have to eat. What's so good about starving?
















I think with my head, not with my feet. I'm not gonna do anything wrong. But we don't deserve to live in poverty without hope for a better life.







If we worked for our family, we'd be better off doing our job.





We have a boat, and the women will help us salt the fish.











Bandier, there's our so-called friend nearby.
Yeah, Lorenzo's a real friend to us!

I'm a friend to any man and I'm not a friend to anyone until I'm bullied.
With "friends" like that, it's worse than without them.










In the meantime, Antonio tells his friends about the future of Valestro's family business and invites them to fight for their independence.


















































If things go well, I'll take care of my friends.














It's a good investment, but it's gonna take a lot of money.


















I think you better go, your builders are waiting for you.


I wish you all the best, Mara.







Yes or no? I'll pick you up Sunday morning.




















Why don't you wait until the weather changes for the better?





















































- Do you have a job for us?



Now Antonio has to find a job somewhere.



Do you have any work for me?


































Don Salvatore will always be your friend, no matter what happens.

Don Salvatore is a really good friend.




















We're not the first day in trade either. We know how to tell bad goods from good.



























And without a job, you can't buy yourself a smoke.


Good cigarettes.


They're good, aren't they?




Is it true you're out of work right now, Kola?









Did you get a job?

What job?

You can't find any work today.

It's all just an excuse to deny you a job.

We've been looking for work for a month.



What's so good about the money they paid us for the anchovies?





































I'm very lucky. Did they really want to give you a job?


350 and 200 for yesterday's work.
Isn't it better to put the money in the box, 'cause then you're not gonna lose it?














So if the weather is good, I'll meet you there at 4:00 in the morning.
















The best thing to do is stay away from Magnivallo, although he usually doesn't walk the streets at such a late hour.
















He's out of work.
He goes out every night to have fun.










I'm fine.

If you've decided to stay home, you won't be a good fisherman anymore.













Are you leaving tonight?



We talk to each other, we write letters to each other...
When you finish your job here, where will you go? There's nothing to do here in winter.











I'm ready for hard work. And I have strong hands. I'm sorry I dared to tell you these things.



On behalf of all present, I would like to thank our noble Baroness! Thank you for coming to see how blessed our new boats are! These boats are gonna make 10 teams work!
And here in Achi Trezza, we live, good, hardworking workers!















Everyone around here thinks it's my fault, but one day they'll know the truth was on my side.

We have to learn to love each other, to take care of each other.



...when people really start helping each other. He must find courage in his heart.
















Lorenzo, put them all on Menicuccio's team. Okay, Antonio?
It's a good team. Sign up.














Still, we're easy to hire everyone.















- Good evening. Thank you.







- Good evening.
























Well, shall we dance now, darling?





Excuse me, I shouldn't have started this conversation and ruined your evening.










Tonight?



Okay. I'll try it another time.



Okay!





I see. Tell him to contact me as soon as he gets back, okay?




















We'd better get back to base if we can find her.










Anyway, I'm much better.


You think that's a good use?
































Okay, if you want.



















I happen to know that he wrote good military correspondence.





- Really, Tom?





First of all, it's not very good journalism.


















You're very good for that.









- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.















































Yes, Sarah, darling.









All right, gentlemen.



























































Well, he doesn't work here anymore.





Okay.





It's not a woman, it's a corporation.





- I'll find another job.


I'm gonna write some articles for Truth.









- Okay.


















- Dear boy, I'll kiss you.















Of course it's true!

Okay.
"Gentlemen, "Sliko" will give your hair an even glitter that will make you irresistible to women."





- Yes, darling.




























































All your life, you've been against women like her-- useless, parasitic, only causing trouble.














Okay, just tell her her husband's gonna get married.





























I'm sorry, darling, and I forgive you.



You must be embarrassed, my dear.







Don't yell, darling.














I'm completely innocent, but I lost my job, I can't go home.
















I'm married to a rich woman.
















































































She won't be here tonight.
















- That's a good conclusion.










Truth be told, he can't tell the difference between wholesale and retail.










Honey.




Well, honey, you could introduce me.















Is it true you left a job in the paper?
- Yes, darling.







- Good evening.







A million dollars... that's great, isn't it?































She chews tobacco like her father, only better.














Okay, if you insist.






Okay. Just follow her.








Not today, darling.





















You're a good wife.







- Okay!









It's good, but it's not gonna work.







I lost my job, my friends laughing at me, my girlfriend's a fool, and you're having fun.

Okay?

Okay.




























- Okay.





Okay, darling.



Stop being grumpy, darling, and let's turn off the lights.






- But I love you, darling, and I have a legitimate right to do so.


Okay, okay. You win.
A signed statement that I'm not married to you. - Okay.
I'll sign it in the morning.





- Okay.
- And without cheating, darling.










Well, that was my job.



They say truck drivers always find places with good food.























































































































Honey, you have terrible manners.





























Don't be so hard on yourself, darling.























- Is that better?

























- Is it true that you and Tom-Tom started a fight?













People are better here.
























Very wise decision, darling.














This woman's gonna look stupid.































You're saying that this beautiful representative of American women... is a real flower, an adorable woman who represents...









- If he's telling the truth, we can.









A legitimate decision is better than what it is, isn't it?






























If he's in the office, I'll bring him some good news. Don't go.











She said she did it on behalf of all American women.

Scared of a few women?


- Do you have a good memory?
- I have a good memory, Mr. Prosecutor.
































I believe that the question of whether the plaintiff &apos; s memory is good... is of great importance in the present case.





The whim of this clever woman has ruined your life?


You weren't trying to seduce this woman in a house in the Sun Valley?




- Okay, I wanted to stay with her...




















- Was he there the next morning when you brought your mistress breakfast?
















Then he pointed to this woman... and introduced her as his fiancée.


















Oh, that was wonderful, because we fell in love.


Pride usually prevents women from making such confessions in court.


He came to see the Whitsons tonight because he couldn't have been without me.


Women know these things.






















Everyone in the courtroom, including the jury... is absolutely certain that the two of you are highly suited to each other.
The way you look at each other.
And the way you... smile at each other.








Just keep up the good manners and don't raise your voice.
Okay, where did we get married?
































Maybe it's a little reckless, my dear? - It's rash? - No, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay




You're gonna take care of me, aren't you?














































- In the morning, Barrett.



























Well, you know, if we have kids, they have to be legal.




And make the kids happy.



































































- Okay, I'll definitely tell her.








We'll take our friends' car, Mobley.


Kichi, you're gonna take care of the parking lot, okay?






He'd take it, too, wouldn't he, Kichi?




























We could rest for a while before zeltonian work.
Sunday night?





























Okay.

I don't think I know much about women or how to talk to them, I...















- Is that the best you could send?





It's a good thing he didn't destroy anything before we got here.


Bowie, you better fix the tire and check the car.


















- Is it true that your mother ran away with that guy?



One night, he and this guy had a little bet.















Okay.









































Chicomow talks about Mexico like that, it must be a very good country.








If the paper says the truth, you can come back and tell me about it.
























- He's just a kid.












It's hard work.





We'll do whatever work we can.
Okay?
Okay.




Well, okay.














Matty rented us a nice house in Gasherton.



















How long can a woman wait for one man?


































Good morning, Mr. Hagenheimer.
Good morning.


- Good morning.


My cold is better today.















And you better hurry up, or I'm gonna beat you.























All right, buddy.






You're not okay?









Stop it, okay?













































They're as good as the women I've seen.













Do you really want to give it to me?


Is it true you never had a boyfriend?




























You're gonna be okay by tonight.














Ma'am, your baby's crying.







































They'll shoot even if there's a woman with him.



- Is that woman and the baby out?





Okay.










Okay, Bowie.




















- It's my job.
































You don't think very well about how I marry people?














Okay.








- Okay.



Okay.











I have a lot of good friends there.











































All right, follow me.




- Friends told us about this place.
You see, Alvin, happy customers are the best commercial ever.











Do you think it's expensive for us?






I think it's a good place.






















































What are you gonna do if I have to leave... and maybe we can't see each other anymore?



What about those other women I was talking about?




What about those women who don't expect their men?
These women don't like it.
Women only love once.
I think women are like dogs.

But you'll only take a good dog.






You'd better finish dressing up the tree.























Really?



Hey, ready to get back to work?

































You better get rid of her.


Okay, I'll wait outside.
















Okay.



















Mostly we made signs for each other.

























If I found a good woman, I'd take her to Missouri Hills.








































































He was killed last night trying to rob a liquor store.



























- Best plumber around.




















- I was at the doctor's.

- We're having a baby.









You'd make me stay, wouldn't you?












I'm having a baby.
Whatever it is, I'm having a baby.






















It's good to wake up and see the sun for a change.
Good morning, darling.






You mean snoring, don't you?

















































































There's a good business here.










- Okay.




















Okay.




- Is there a doctor here?

































The doctor said it was gonna be okay.
The doctor is afraid for me, I know.






Bowie, what would you want our kid to be when he grows up?























It's okay now.




You said you had a lot of friends in Mexico.
- A lot of good friends.




























That's good.

Okay.
I just thought that people like us should help each other.







Make sure the doctor comes and watches her.










- Only women know about these things.













I have to see the baby.








































Other Americans won't give you a job anymore.





















But if you want the money, I can offer you a job.


I have a job.





















































That he hires fools like you.






Another one... looking for a cheap job, and most people don't have it at all.
The streets are full of tramps ready to rip out a piece of bread from each other.





















But after months of useless work, you go down to 15,000, then ten.





Better yet, 25,000.






















I'd go alone, it's even better.








































But there's still work to do. The conditions will be clear by Monday, and we can start on Friday.




























Looks like we're done sneaking around Tampico and looking for a job.






The risk is nothing more than sitting here waiting for luck. It's a country where gold bars keep asking someone to dig them up and turn them into shiny coins or jewelry for luxurious women.























































Hello, my dears, sweet money!
























Nice shooting, huh?
























































And in the rest of the world, there was too little gold for a good catch.











We're gonna have a rough walk tomorrow, so you'd better get some food.


















Look at each other:

























The camp's better downstairs.













































But it's better to divide the day's prey into three parts every night.
























I'm still able to do hard daily work, but I'm not what I used to be.












Tonight, after work, we put together big bonfires, sit around and sing under the guitar.
Sometimes until morning.

And everyone was so good.










Then I'm gonna go to an expensive cafe and order whatever's on the menu. And if something's wrong, and even if it is, I'm gonna yell at the waiter and make him carry it back.


If I were you guys, I wouldn't think about women right now.





- Twenty-five thousand is good.


A thousand fifty, and even better than 75.














That's what the wild places are like.
























We have work to do tomorrow.


















- You're a good companion, aren't you?







































































Really?



















- Really?













































In other words, do yourself and us a favor. Get your stuff in the morning and leave.
Wherever we come from, with our best wishes.




But tomorrow morning, look, don't look around, okay?









That's why we decided to leave and look for something better.

































Good morning, buddy.





















































































































And we'll go our way.

Okay. Okay.




















































To tell you the truth, I was ready to give up.









"Dear Jim, I got your letter.



You'd better read it.






This year here, at home, it's especially nice.





















I don't want to keep women waiting.







You speak of grief as a woman.
I think she's the best woman I've ever known.







About Cody's widow and the baby.






























I'll be back before morning.



























If they catch up on the gold, they might forget he's an expensive guest.









































































































Apparently, we'd better split up tomorrow morning. Or even today.







































I'll bury him first thing in the morning.






Shouldn't we leave him there?














That's good.













I think he came back in the morning to make sure I was dead.











































I need a good mules driver, even two or three.










My friends are riding in the back.


A man alone, in the country of robbers, with a caravan of donkeys, and his friends follow him on horses.
Your friends seem to be way behind.









You can get good money.




We can sell these donkeys for good money, too.



























I'm officially offered to be a doctor.


A good doctor has to be born.
















It's better than writing to her.












People wake up screaming for him to work, eat dinner for him, and come home to him.







On the second floor of the bank building is the doctor's office, the only doctor in Lowalton.











If you knew Rosa, you'd understand why she wanted the best house and as far away from screaming sawmills as possible.

Only one Indian girl, but it's bigger than any other woman in town.





Even the kids don't want to miss anything.




Kids aren't washed, husbands aren't fed.
All the women of the city, having forgotten each other's grievances, gathered here in anticipation of knowing Rosa's secret.




















Except for work!

A tired doctor isn't good.

































She's expecting a baby.

I can't track the birth of all the children in Lowalton.


If he can't pay the hospital, how can he take care of eight children?










I thought one of the kids had measles or something!














































Sending a telegram to Moose is the best way to keep a secret in a small town.

We went fishing this morning and the doctor left for an emergency call...























No matter how often children are born, and how many more babies are born in the house is always a significant event.


It's okay, isn't it?



If you have any domestic work like painting or cutting trees, I can come back on Sundays...



You took the baby in your arms, didn't you?








You don't think I'm gonna let a woman die just because I owe you $187?
Okay, okay...
















It's a good thing I didn't know about it then!


Really?






























You feel it, don't you?

It's much better now.










Are you feeling better?
I'm better.


















I know you're not interested in my job, but I saved a woman's life.

It's my job to save lives!






































Are you gonna put the production of children on the stream?











Come on, kids.















- The Doctor hired me.


The doctor's dirty shirts in the laundry room.
Come on, finish your job!


If I don't get out of here, I'd rather die.


































It's funny being a provincial doctor!






My children, never avoid Common Practice.



That's right, village doctor!

People think a good family doctor can combine medicine and psychiatry.






Come, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to Dr. Molina:
A human friend, the benefactor of the city.





I came up with a whole theory about how good it is to be a provincial doctor because I'm no longer good at anything.










































The fact that a doctor is like a gardener?


You're not the best gardener.





























































































































I want you to be proud of me if we're spending the evening together!











We never lied to each other, did we?

Okay, then I'll be straight with you.







It's true!
































And you don't need me, I'm not good enough!




Any other woman would take the money!














It's funny, isn't it?











I always knew you were a useless doctor.



The baby will make you happy.


You're not different from other women, are you?


















I'm afraid I won't be able to make friends with a woman.






It's funny, isn't it?















- Dr. Lewis.
- Hello, Doctor.





























Doc... I want you to meet my friend.











That's what you wanted, isn't it?




























Let's go in the morning and go, Moose.




- Okay...




Good morning, Mrs. Molin!
Good morning, Mr. Latimer!















What about the baby?























We'd better change our plans.



















Not the best weather for flying.

It could be better up there.
- Goodbye, Dr. Molin.









I'm not saying how that can affect a child!

Rosa, whatever you do, it has nothing to do with the baby.





After I tell you something, you may not want me or my baby.














Make me another Mildred Sorren with eight kids.



I'm just worried about the baby and you're gonna have to take it.


Really?
Really?

















After the birth of the baby!




I'm afraid I might fall when I have a baby in my arms, or when I cook, in any situation like this.





Okay, okay.
Good morning.

You'd better...





















You want me to die, don't you?



A master doctor can cure me.
And why should I lie in this shit when I could have everything you can buy for money, all the best!

You hate me, don't you?










The doctor ordered me to take care of you until he got back.





















































































Come on, darling. It's time for bed.






















He's interested in my project and it'll be good if he finances it.



That'd be better, asshole.
You're doing a good catawasia.





Good evening, sir.























































































Bye, darling. Bye, Tonino.


































































Go away, children.





Good evening, beautiful.

















Very good. Everybody's on fire.





We used to love each other.




















































































- Like I told you... I have some material. - Okay.







Women are afraid of a new one.








I hope you get the answer soon. - Very good.










We're fine, we're not accountable to anyone.




These things aren't for women.













Don't be afraid, we're friends.






























That's a good idea.




























Now I have a home, family and children.





Isn't that right? Tell me the truth.



I'm a poor woman.



















































♪ But, best of all, look around us ♪




- ♪ My dear love ♪ - ♪ Good afternoon ♪ - Good afternoon.






- How's it going? - Okay.

- Good afternoon. How are you? - Thank you, okay.
























- Again. - Okay.

It's a beautiful song, isn't it?










It's so good to be here all my life.




No, it's better "Ooh, Marie."


Rosa, what song do you want? I don't know, I don't remember, they're all good.



























































- Good evening, sir.

As I said, it's very bad, but I couldn't give up such a good opportunity.






It came out suddenly, I have friends there, they told me about an important job.
- Okay. - All I have to do is wish you a happy journey and good luck.

































I've always been your friend to you more than your father.

But you're a good son.




















I don't complain about work. I'm tired at the end, though.




Dad, Dad, don't say that. That's not true.
That's not true.
Okay, I'm not gonna say that anymore.


It's not for work, it's for divorce.
































































































Is that true?






You make me teach you a good lesson. Then you learn what's good and what's bad.






That's not true, Dad.











Okay.






























That's better.

They're gonna kill each other.
















Tonino, darling.
























No, Mom, that's not true.




















I sing and play guitar, but I'd take any job.











When are you gonna think about your health a little bit? Tears and work.


























I've looked at this window so many times, at night, in the dark, I've had enough to see it lighted, thinking that the kids were sitting at the table.


























"Dear, I've heard from you.
















My wife looked very pretty when she cooked them... surrounded by children.
Children.




Yes, darling.



































Okay.








No, counselor, that's not true.


God is the witness. I didn't cheat on my husband, I swear on my children.





In that case... tell the truth, without shyness, without hiding anything.






























































Were you going to leave your husband and your children? Yes.





- I didn't think about my kids. - Piece of shit. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






































"I didn't even think about my kids. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,



























The Stamp of One of England's Best Jewelry Houses!
























Okay! 18 shillings from a gentleman with a good heart!








And the truth is, the bomb hit Edwards!







































My children, he was once the most dangerous man in London!






- Okay.










You can communicate with enemies indefinitely... but friends speak briefly and in essence.


















I'd rather escort you!




























- You wear them every day, don't you?




It's for the best.
They couldn't live without each other.













- My darling, before the drill!






















- Wait a minute, Arthur. - If you order her name on the fan, it'll cost her more.



















No, it's not better. It's her birthday of the 21st.








Okay. Ten pounds.











I'm afraid names are no better...













They say he's short. I hope it's true.




I'm carrying a third for this kind of thing to come back and find out how my friends are looking for adventures behind my back.



































Honey, that could be the secretary.









- Just a little party for friends.



























In the light of the day, every woman with her memories brings you out!











- Leave us alone: we're very old friends!




























Yeah, a lot, really, they all looked alike.


A beautiful, lonely woman?


That's right for me, isn't it?






















Yes, Mr. Graham told me when he came to see me this morning.






Yeah, but you can invite me as a... friend, can't you?








And for the best.







































- Okay.






I hope you're in good shape.






Shouldn't it be nice for a woman to be complimented by a man who's lying?



Believe me, you're better than most, but you try to seem worse.
If you try to be better, you're taken seriously if you pretend to be worse - the other way around.



- We could be big friends.
You might need a friend someday.
I think we're good friends-- please don't kill our friendship.

























They say she's a woman with a past.




Okay, let's get started.





























As you can see, buddy, I'll do anything for a beautiful woman.





























Isn't that reasonable?



It's a lovely house, isn't it?




















Mrs. Erlene, you're the crapiest and most shameless woman I've ever met.







- Mrs. Erlene! Honey!
















- It wasn't easy: I told him the truth.
Only those who have lied their whole lives know how effective the truth can be.













Good morning, Lord Darlington.


Other women will think about the costume first, and only after--where to put it.
You know so much about women - too bad you're not interested in anything else.







She taught me to remember what others forget: the difference between bad and good.












My dear Margaret! It's so nice to meet you.




There are two things a man shouldn't know about a woman: what she thinks of him and the size of her shoes.































































Honey, bad women take our husbands away from us, but they always come back to us-- really, a little bit rubbish.

- Are you talking about bad women in general or some particularly bad woman?








This woman has a house on Curzon Street, and they say Arthur goes there four or five times a week.
She must have pulled a good amount of money out of someone, even though she came to London without a dime.
Now she has a house, she rides pony in the park every night... and all thanks to poor Windermire.




But he didn't give her a penny: I check his checkbook every night.







You're right, darling, it's just the simple ones crying, it's devastating for beautiful women.
- What a nice evening, wasn't it, sweetheart?











I'll be glad, but I won't put my heart into my work.






- You'll take care of him in the morning.















































Show me the woman!










The Duchess, Lady Jensen, the houses and horses and mysterious women, and that the Duchess may be right...









- You'd tell me everything, wouldn't you?
- It's almost morning, let's go...
- Isn't that right?



You gave money to this woman?








- Okay, so it's true!






- Maybe it's true that before...



























- Some... friend.

Funny thing is, I'm sorry about the bad stuff, and you're sorry about the good stuff.





















































Why do you think women leave them?




More than anything in the world, he wanted Margaret out of humiliation... knowing that her mother was a woman who was scandalously known all over Europe!

That night, I went to her ball.






- Good evening, Lord Windermere!










- A reliable service, isn't it?


Good evening, Cecil!

Good evening, Lady Windermere.


It's like you knew how nice it would be for me to be with you this evening.
Good evening, Mrs. Erlene.


































Only a very good woman could do such a stupid thing.



You said one day I'd need a friend - I wouldn't think so soon.

Will you be my friend?
No, Margaret, I can't be your friend anymore.



























A week from now, you'll be riding with this woman in the park.
She's gonna be in your house all the time, and she's gonna be your best friend.



It's over.





- Good evening, Duchess.






















Everything worked out the best way.






































































Okay, madam.





I know all this, and it's too good.














I know it's too good.









Imagine that every woman despises and ignores you.









I didn't want to say it, but you're jealous of a woman who could be your mother!




























- It's good for you, married!










- We were just discussing what a lovely evening it was.











I had important things to do. I'm leaving England tomorrow morning.




The worst thing about women is they always re-educate us.

I think we're all good men.













- It's the best joke of the season!

He's talking about pure love, and there's a woman in the house!



























And please send me my own by tomorrow night. I'm going to go to Paris.






You'll do the master a great favor if you don't say there was another woman in the house.

- Good morning, Dawson.
- Good morning, my lord!










Okay.



















What can a child like you know about my hopes and plans?


Maybe because your hopes and your lives are more important than my own.











































I was so proud of my memory, and I forgot what happened this morning...
You know, I've always wondered what you were doing that night in my house.




Any other woman in London - but not me.





After Margaret left home that morning, she sent me a bouquet of white and red roses... and her fan in a perlamouth box.






































































































































































































































































If only you knew what a good question you asked.











Six o'clock in the morning.
















Now he's gonna have to hang out all night.














Because traders feed their children.





Lop 'em before his kids get 'em.




















- You gonna get a job?











































































- Are we friends now?
Friends. And you know what we're gonna do?





























It's the best job in the world.




Looking for a full-time job?

















If you're decent, you'll get a promising job like Pedersen.









My best friend works around here.

Find a job "inventives" than these thin sheets of gestures.







All I do is drink, my friend.










Are they good people?

They say the job is promising.












I'm going to work tomorrow.








The police protect those who agree to go to work.














I don't want to be late for work the first day.














































One day he caught and turned in my friend Sophus.

















I don't want to go to jail. Now I have a job.






Be ready tomorrow night.







- Okay.















I'll just ask her after work.




















You can come tomorrow at 7:00 a.m.












You're gonna make a good master because you like tools.





Do you want to be an apprentice on the second day of work?
























































Is that true?








































- Okay, what are we gonna do now?














































If I could wait till morning, I could re-evaluate it.



Good evening, Mrs. Ennis.
Good evening, Mr. Ennis.












Work














How wonderful, darling.












































I'm not looking for gifts in this closet until Christmas morning.
I'm not gonna look in that closet until Christmas morning.




- Well, I don't know, Christmas, presents just feel good.










I'll put it here so I don't forget about it in the morning.















We can even go to the movies if I don't have an emergency job.


Okay, darling.































But I haven't had a divorce of people who really know each other.

















Of course he's a good guy.











Only better, I guess.





Okay...
















Is that true?

















Okay, what now?











Okay.



































































Sorry I had a mink coat, I could have done the same steak changed my whole life it was too big for me alone and I invited his wife's buddy back then wasn't in town while he and I were sitting at the table telling me about work.
Which I couldn't get because I was married to work on a ship in South America. I asked him, and I got her.





I met a friend in the army. He's got a little shipyard in Balboa, California.
It's not working yet, but it can be restored. I want to buy it. I take any job every time I make $100. I send it to him. I don't make a million on it, but I really want it.
It's better than looking for oil in Texas or coal in Kentucky.


I'm gonna help you with your job. I'm gonna be your friend professor, and you're your interior decorator... and you're helping design my apartment.




One day I took a meal out of Golden Fish on a bus on Fifth Avenue and dropped one by the neck of a woman I imagine.










- Yes, darling.

















I'm gonna go look for them in the morning.




Oh, you're so good.

Okay!







You know what kids are like, Carl.



















- we met in Crowley this morning.



















It doesn't look like it's gonna snow as much as when we were kids.





























It's a good thing she talks about him like he's alive.






- Well, there's nothing better...
- There's nothing better...




Come here, darling.













Okay, start what do you like most about school?
Other kids, what would you like for Christmas?
































I think that's why the baby came out. Oh, I don't think so.


















He's a great guy. Let him be a kid. Stop turning him into like your dead husband.



















The baby's not happy if his mother's getting married again. It takes time for him to get used to it.



























I, um... drilled holes in the floor of my bedroom when I was a kid and could look up into the living room.

















































I'm so sorry about last night, Connie.


Like, "Get your hands off my baby."


















It's gonna be a great night.








- What kind of gift is that, my dear?


















It's a wonderful train, darling, and the doors are open, and there was a note.





































I'll be right back, darling.
Merry Christmas, darling.








I can't take it from Tim and I can't take it from Steve. It's too expensive.




Okay.
























I'd rather do that for you. I think I'll catch him at the hotel after breakfast. I have something to talk to Mr Mason about. I'll go with you.




It's much more comfortable being nice to Carl these days.



































Who's your friend?






I'm sorry, but the train is a personal matter between me and my friend.









For a child who doesn't expect miracles, it seemed like a great idea.








- Really?






Thank you, mr. It's good that someone knows Christmas is everywhere.
















I know what life will be like with him, calm and reliable when I think about it I get so good
Shut down your work.










All surprises, good and bad.






















'Cause not everyone who wears old clothes is vagrants... just like those who give 80-dollar trains to strangers' kids, not necessarily millionaires.





I'm gonna start work on the shipyard I'm buying here.


Okay, and Carl doesn't have to worry about me anymore.









- Connie, darling, happy Christmas.

- Thank you, darlings.





















Oh, of course, your young man, darling.








But he's been talking about Mr Mason all morning.
- How did you get away this morning...
















- Merry Christmas, darling.




















It's a very expensive gift if he doesn't know you with Timmy, it's really weird, but if he's just a good guy, what's weird about that?
Why are you so upset, darling?












Mrs. Ennis was sitting on a bench in the park this morning?








- Put your coat on, darling.



He's my friend, isn't he?


About 9:00 a.m. in Central Park... Mr. Mervin Fisher was stunned with a tie and stole a $120 wallet, along with a silver set of salt and peppers for his aunt in Fleshing.
























I was in the park with Mr Mason from 8:00 to 9:00 a.m.









What were you doing in the park at 8:00 a.m. with this guy?





You see, the train arrived early in the morning.

Guy doesn't have a job.

He's got nowhere to sleep and he's buying a baby a train.




This morning, after his gift was delivered...
Then tell me, where can I get a tie at 8:00 A.M. Christmas?











A guy without a job gives out Christmas presents to get Christmas gifts from a little girl with a balloon eating in a park with a seal and adopting a squirrel.

Everything we've said here is true!










I got a job there.









What happens if you don't get a job?










And eating at the restaurant is so expensive.












































What's more, I don't want to live without you all these beautiful years. I felt good and bad, but you were with me.










Steve, we wish you luck in your new job in California.















Daddy, we better go out to the kitchen and get dessert. I don't think anyone's thinking about dessert right now.


Maybe I shouldn't say it in front of Carl and it'd be better if I went a long way and tried to catch Connie behind the kitchen stove?



















My mom bought me a train and my friend bought me another one.























Try tomorrow morning.


















Okay, thanks.


















And my friend gave me another one.











He's a friend of my mom's and he's very poor.
He doesn't have a job.
























Calm down, darling.











He's good.














It's too expensive.
Steve doesn't have a job.





























Divorce case, darling.


It's my job to study the facts.




You've never been interested in this or my job at all.







It's been a long time since we've spent time becoming friends.

I'll wait five minutes and if you don't find a better company we can still have dinner.




















What a child.




















Well, if it makes you happy, you're a psychic!

























































































































Okay, what brand?




























































Well... I work in a magazine.





























How about tonight?




Compared to your success, Hoover's dam is a pathetic kind of work.














Really?
All right. Didn't you text her after we got here? Yes.













How's it going, darling?





What's the matter, darling?










Bye, darling...



















We don't have to decide right now, do we?
It's wiser in the morning.





Really? Why?














No, really, I...


Okay.













Anyway, it's a good thing we're leaving before you get involved.

Tomorrow night.
















You really want me to take my pictures for the magazine.




Okay.














Because the truth is, you don't want to take pictures of people playing.

Look at the truth.

Have you ever met a woman who likes to... dance but doesn't pay a swimmer?




I told you it would be better to talk to the patio.






















Yes, sir. 7:00 P.M.

















My husband will write you a check in the morning if I can...




Not very well.










He'll understand, won't he?
































But it's worth three times the price.

Okay, how much will you give me?










In the morning, everything will appear in a different light.







The only thing I have to do is get the money by tomorrow morning!
Okay, lady, okay.


















































Good morning, Mrs. Booth.
Good morning...


Okay.





- Okay.




It didn't happen. Really?
Really?







Good morning, darling.





























How's it going, darling?

Are you calling from work?









Okay.











Okay, Joan...


You want to stay here with her, don't you?







You understand everything, don't you, David?




You better give Ruth the good news.





Don't be stupid, darling.
It looks even better on you than it looks on me.













There's no displeasure, is there?









If you're free tonight, there'll be a closed game in my apartment.








































Really, Joan?

















You've lost your judgment, darling.




But you can't accept it, can you? When a man takes the slightest interest in me, doesn't he?









I don't remember a more wonderful evening.

You're not into Mr. Carrigan, are you?


Trust me, darling.


















But I had you in my arms-- a nasty skinny kid.

Please, darling...











But that's your problem, isn't it?








Okay.



But it's true, her bed isn't even smudged.


























The cards came into my hands, didn't they?







At 5:45 a.m.?






This room is very nice in the morning.







Like a kid when he's being punished, and he realizes the punishment's over.








I think I'd better go.






I'm really sorry.










Women!










Where were you this morning at 5:00 a.m.?
Five o'clock this morning?






















I don't care about heights.
It's better to lie in the sun or stick a steak.


Honey, are you worried about me?




























I have a better idea.



















I wish you'd warned me.




Didn't I tell you, darling?

Okay, let's go back to Pelican.

Not today, darling.







Hello, darling.











Really?


You lost poker all night, didn't you?












Not a good time for husbands.




































Okay, Joan.

A scared kid in the dark prays for help.






































- Okay.
































And if not, we'll stay here and grow vegetables and ten children.








Isn't that right, darling?
















I'll be back early in the morning.







It's a good thing one of them has brains.

Drive carefully, darling?



I'll chew good food, brush my teeth, and shave in the morning.


Bye, darling.



































Truth is, I don't know anything about that.



























Okay.















Okay, okay.








You didn't lose them, did you, Joan?











Children.







That's enough to go back to Chicago... and get a job.















































I think you can find a job.







Woman.








Okay, you can start.
















This job will pay for your expenses. Don't forget the percentage of profits.















All right, let's go.














You could be wrong, really.





Why are you so worried, maybe it's true? I don't know.

















It was a very good deal, and Johnny barely kept her.


Okay.
Okay.







Good evening, gentlemen.

My money's not good enough?
Don't mix women and poker, dear Mrs. Booth.





"Isn't my money good enough," she says.





























What's good?






Okay, that's the way it's gonna go.




















Okay, let's work clean.























Okay, try and call me back.






































































I would never, darling.










It's a very nasty job, sweetheart.






Okay.
Okay.





















Okay, I'll tell you what I think.



















In any job, she only stayed until her first paycheck.



Getting a job was getting harder, and she wasn't worried about what kind of job to do.















































All right, let's go.




Okay.






It's really noisy for a phone booth, isn't it?
























Okay.


This is Dr. Rojac.














Joan, darling.
Dear Joan.





We'll be together again, darling.




Doctor.
She's gonna be okay, isn't she?









And then you'd be really happy, wouldn't you?

My broken life isn't enough for you, is it?


Why are you here? To finish the job?









That's what you've always wanted, isn't it?


And you've been working on it, really.





Joan, darling.




But you're not gonna let him, are you, Joan?
Really?




You know that, don't you, Joan?
Say it, darling.







Tell him, darling.


It's true, isn't it?




Okay, Ruth. Now that's enough.













It's true.
It's true.


I did kill her.











Okay.










You're a doctor.

No doctor can help her unless she wants help.









That's what you've always wanted, isn't it?



It's the only way to settle, isn't it?




You've got a great start at the casino, and now you're done.









That's not true.
That's not true what he said, darling.



You'd better go, Ruth.








Let's go to the window, darling.


Okay, Captain.













































- My wife is very sick, and she's expecting a baby.





- But last night, there was beef!




















- Nice work, Mr Pascal.

















































Work tonight or you won't get soup.























- Okay...





























- That's better.


















































Very good, buddy.










































































































































- Worse, I lost a friend.

Isn't that better?












- That's it, darling.





































- It's funny this morning we didn't know each other and tonight we're alone in the room.




















- What's good on the roof?



























Come in, don't be afraid, they're friends.





- He's good, I'll tell you.


- Good morning, monsieur.







- This release may not be so good for our cause.























- Uh, all women lie.




- Be reasonable, darling.

- Look, it's beautiful, isn't it?
























- Okay.



- Don't be a kid, you need to know that girls need to:













Come on, darling, let's go.



- Monsieur insulted my best friend, from whom I envy, who has many wine factories.





















- It's gonna be okay, you'll see.




It's not gonna make us happier. Isn't that right, Gilbert?





I was promised a job.
- A job?


- I know your job, but you're late.













But I live from my job, and now I'm out of work.


















Okay, I won't insist... but it's a shame.
I was told about a good case:











- Robert's looking for a job.









- It doesn't matter, I have a job.









- Good job?













Do you understand, darling?







- The important thing is we're gonna be together, huh, darling?









- What's your job?




Good prospects.
























- Is it good?







"Put him in for 48 hours in Oran (the woman's question)!"





































































- No, I found another job.










My job was no better.


































- Okay, don't be late.



- To see the woman they just let in.
















When we become friends, mistrust will disappear.






















- Yeah, you're like a kid.


- Here's the woman of your dreams.

It's a charming baby.


























- This is my friend.

Okay, I'll leave you to it.
We used to choose better-educated friends.






























































But I'll never make you happy, so you better go.






The other one that's gonna grow old between kids and pots whose hands are gonna smell like soap.







Look at Leon, does he kill himself at work?







I'm very happy with you.





















- It's expensive, honey.








There are better things.





You're gonna need friends there to get this stuff.










He's each other and so on.











Dear friend, let me introduce you to my older brother.



- Very good.





































- Go, my dear brother.




Just disappointed, I thought you were my friend.
































































And tell him the truth that we live together. If he takes you after that...




















































Ready. But you'd better calm him down. He's gonna make a noise.



























With friends.



















To her, you were a burden, worse than a child.




- It's better for everyone, believe me.









That's better.















I think it's a good start.

































- Let this adorable woman pass!

















Don't you see the baby?



















- Monsieur Pascal, hurry, time is expensive.











- I knew you were a good man.

















Honey.



















- There's dates and we'll have a lot of kids.















Come on, darling.












































Much better.

We love each other more.





It's okay.


- It's better by the water.











- This kid... is a charming kid.
















It's gonna be good.






























































Who is it? Good evening.
















- Oh, good.





































Happy New Year, my dear.





- Happy New Year, Pat, darling.






# In the days of the old days, my friend







It's funny, isn't it, after all these years?





































































Okay, honey.
A friend.












Wake up, darling.
















If two people really love each other and want to be together, they want to belong to each other.

















































Yeah, isn't it?


Okay, yeah, I think I can.


































































































It was very early, wasn't it?













We knew each other so well, all of a sudden, we didn't think these years were just in between.































Just for tonight.






























Really.





































I think I'll continue in the morning, Miss Layton.
All right, Mr. Justin.









# The first is the best love in the world


# First love and last, here's the only truth







Good night, darling.



































Did you have a good night?











Good places?

Sit down, darling.



















I'm sorry it came out this way, but I think you'd better know the truth.

Mary and I have always loved each other.












You'd better go.

- You'd better go, Stephen.










- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.




- Good morning, Mr. Stratton.









































Okay, you can love her, but you don't know her.














All you have to do is stay away from each other.





We're leaving tonight.



Okay.










It was better.


















I'm not a very good person, Stephen.






















- Thank you, okay.

- Good morning, Mrs Justin.









This is his first real vacation in these years and the first two days he'll spend without his job.


























































Too heavy a job?
































You'd better put on your shirt.










You know, Steven, these days... we're closer and happier than usual.

- You have kids, don't you?











You're very happy, aren't you, Stephen?



































Was it hard this morning?































I think it's better to deal with me than Arnold.


"Dear Arnold..."











"I suppose you know me well enough to understand... that I will never allow any influence on me in this or any other matter and especially... in the financial aspect."























































He left this morning.

















He's coming to London tomorrow night.



- How are the kids? - Wonderful.










- I... I really don't remember.














I'm sorry, Mrs. Justin, but I think you'd better face the facts.














- I called him at the university this morning.




His family, his job, his happiness, everything.


















































I remember in Switzerland... you told me you were closer to each other than you ever were.












We... better say goodbye.


- Okay.








































































It's okay.





You better sit down.

It's okay.








Doctor!
Doctor!
Doctor!



















There are so many women around.















- Okay.




- Okay.

What, Doctor?













- Doctor!









- Where's the doctor?



Poor people should die early, they're better off.

But the doctor suggested you become a nurse and start a new life.
What about the baby?





And your doctor too.
If he wants to help me, he can get rid of my baby.









By the way, this is the young doctor's future wife, isn't it?






The doctor here is a wonderful man.




I'm fine.










Doctor, can I go home?





















































A man or a woman.




















Best wishes to your father.







- Good morning.
- Good morning.





- I'd rather have tea.




Doctor, I have a plaster of fleas.







Doctor, when can I eat?
































The nurse's work is difficult.















Why didn't you think about being careful if you didn't want a baby?
Because his father is a jerk who dragged a girl into a room without taking care of any children!









Life is amazing, isn't it?




Doctors............................................ Still working.









Where there's a secret, you can find out the truth.





























































Easy, or the doctor's gonna be mad at you.


















Okay.









I think the doctor is a wonderful man.













Kids are nothing but trouble.


- Are you at a doctor's appointment?

































- Okay.











The senior doctor drugged him.


























Doctor!





















And now our baby is growing up safely in her tummy.











I'm telling the truth.







He'll do anything to save your baby.




It's hard work.
Is this for the baby patient here?





















Are you implying that my child will be insane?

If we start treatment now, he's gonna be okay.




It's about the baby's life.

And this is my first child!












I thought you'd better explain yourself.






Really, Dr. Fujisaki?












There are things in life that a woman can't handle.
I think you're stronger than most women.











Even when I was busy, I thought of you every night.












And as far as I know you, you just told the truth.





















And they took me somewhere, abandoned your job, abandoned everything!








You'd better go home.













She's an extraordinary woman.



Tell me, Doctor, is it easy for a man to.....felt lust?


There are two kinds of patients, aren't there?















































But, Doctor, what if someone wants to satisfy your passion?

If there was a woman who wouldn't be embarrassed by your illness?














Really?







- Doctor?



Doctor!
Doctor!
Doctor!













Doctor?



- Doctor?









What happened to my baby?













































You're the one who said bad things about my baby!




You infected the doctor!





You made the doctor suffer so much!


And your baby!





Let this bastard see how his baby came into being!

Doctor, isn't he...?







Okay.









Look at the doctor, for example.
Really?


You don't have children.




Well, that's what the doctor says.
You like the doctor, don't you?














And there's a saint among the doctors.






Please help me, Doctor!
I have four children!
Doctor, can I work again?
Doctor...










- All right, Sergeant Major.






All right, Sergeant Major.






























Try and get him to meet Sammy tonight, okay?






































































Okay, here's what happened: The baby died of the explosion.











- Always kids?
Three kids and an adult.
The fact that children have been hurt three times out of four is weird.



































- No, really. I have to go now. - Okay.


















It's so awful that it happened to the kids.









I don't feel any better about what the doctor says.


















- You think it's better?















They're not standing still, are they?
















He has friends at the Ministry.

We're just taking whatever job we're offered.











- Good morning, Crowhurst.
- Good morning, sir.
Good morning, Mr. Rice.









Hello, darling?


- Really, darling?


Yes, darling.







- Okay, darling.








In letters, darling.






Sorry, honey.





























You know, Sammy, little Sue is just an amazing woman.
Nice work.














Good girl.
























I've noticed that when we're separated from the military, the truth stays with us, apart from the fact that it's them, not us, working there and risking their lives.










Good morning, Lacomb.


Good morning.

- Good morning, Mr. Pinker.
Thank you, very well. - Great.




- Okay, come on. And a thick soup and a pint of Hollyster, please.


























You had a good division when it all started.
























Bertha, would you please write down a bill for my friend from the public service?




I want you to meet a very important person tonight.

















- You could find another job.














You handle everything the way women do.
















How are you, darling?
Honey, this is Norval.








How lucky we made it, darling.















They're the perfect couple, aren't they?







Men and women all look alike when they dance.
















































Very good.


Ah, good morning, gentlemen.


This is where all the work goes.
- It's not too luxurious, is it?


- That's the best we could get.











It's better now.



- Is that you, darling?












Yeah, but you can't hold a dog and bark yourself, can you?




















I wish you'd come up with a thing that would write good speeches.

Oh, that's even better.










- Hello, darling!
- Hello, Madeline, darling.












You'd be as good at it as anyone else, even better.


Sorry, honey.



Offer me a drink, woman.





Honey.


























Mr. Rice, Dr. Ellis.












He came to consciousness for two minutes last night, and for a few seconds this morning.


- Does he have a chance, Doctor?




















































If you have something, let it be the best.




- Okay.











Okay.






















































It's true, sir.





























But, darling, it's Tuesday.











A woman?






































Professor Charne, Dr. Golder and Dr. Pis.

Dr. Brian is one of the most famous organ chemists in the kingdom.
Okay.





























A big garden is the best puncture capacity, maximum interval.
































I'm not a politician or a salesman, but I'm not a ten-year-old!

At the age of ten, the children are already out of line.















Pinker and Woring are having dinner at your club tonight. That's number one.























But you're not gonna face the truth.








- It's true.







- It's true.





I think if you really think I'm as stupid as you said I was today, we'd better split up.
























































Woman, you can call before you get blue.



















Okay.





























5 : 30 a.m.













Damn it.

















I have a lot of experience with experimental fuses.









I wish I could take a look at his notes.











During his work, he used the field phone all the time, reporting everything he did and giving all the clarifications.









Well, okay.































I think I'd better pull the switch and watch.



Well, guys, unless there's a man inside with a burning match, it's okay, I think.


















Okay.



Nice work.
























- Okay.






- Good day, sir.


The sea isn't as calm as it is this morning.



















Wave if you can hear me, okay?





















































































































I understand the explosives work is being moved to another place, sir.
















I promise you, it's gonna be okay.


- Good evening, Crowhurst.
- Good evening, sir.




- Okay.


















I had to go to work.





- Okay.










































In general, the good guys are doing everything they can.


He came here to visit a friend. The name was Lime, Harry Lime.
Martins was on zero, and Lime offered him something, I don't know, a job.



A friend offered me a job here.











- His friends and his coffin.






Sorry about the graveyards, hard work in this cold.







- Were you his friend?

















Best friend I ever had.











It's the best thing that's ever happened to him.
































I love good westerns.












A very good writer.














Mr. Martins, there's gonna be a little lecture at our institute Wednesday night about today's novel.




Isn't that right, Sergeant?











I know a good dentist.















Yeah? I was a friend of Harry Lime.












This is the story of a man who's punishing a sheriff chasing his best friend.













So you were Harry's friend?
I think best friend, except for you, of course.
















A friend called him on the opposite side.




His friend and I picked him up.











And it was just you and that friend of his?















Only his doctor, Dr. Winkel.









I live in the Russian sector, but you'll find me every night at the Casanova Club.







You'd better think about yourself.



I think it's a very good cover.

Major Calloway sends his best wishes, sir.


Mr. Martins, good evening.


I was a friend of Harry Lime.












No, he never talked to me about his friends.






- Okay.




















I spoke to another friend of Harry's, Baron Kurts.



I don't understand why Harry had friends like that.




Dr. Winkel told me.
Dr. Winkel?










































It's better not to get involved in these things.



Three people took your friend to the statue.





















I should have listened to my wife, she said you didn't have any good in mind.



















































































Dr. Winkel.




Is Dr. Wincol home?
Dr. Wincol?

Please tell him I'm a friend of Harry Lime.
Are you Dr. Wincol?

Ah, Dr. Winkel.






We were both friends of Harry Lime.








- Two of his friends.












Could he have been pushed, Dr. Wincol?



















We loved each other.









In one of the letters, he asks you to call a good friend of his named Joseph.

A lot of Lime's friends went there.








Your American friend is still waiting for you.



Good evening, Mr. Martins.



















Yeah, he turned his head, and that's a good picture.
Good evening, Miss Schmidt.
Good evening.






Our friend, Dr. Winkel, said you came by.






I'd like to meet all of Harry's friends.








Hello. Harry's friend is my friend.

Good evening, Miss Schmidt.














































Your friend Kurts seems to think it's possible.






Good girl, but she should be careful in Vienna.


Okay.






Come tonight, my wife will be gone.
Okay, I'll be back, but...

See you tonight...


The concierge agrees to talk to us tonight.



















I've been scared, I've been alone without friends and money, but I've never been like this.

















I knew how to knock the temperature before the exams, how best to hide the vagina, how to get away from something.












I think it's a good idea.


If we need to meet the concierge, we better go.
























We'd better not see each other.


























So, ladies and gentlemen, it's all good that ends well.




























































And these were the murders: the wounded with the gangrene, giving birth to women and children, too. Some of this dissolved penicillin was used for meningitis.
The lucky kids died, the other kids went crazy.
























We've got better witnesses, take a look...









We'll send him to your hotel in the morning.



Can I get that woman's passport?






































It's better that he died.









He was a real man, not just your friend and my lover.












































































I need the truth, Miss Schmidt, we know he's alive.


















I wish he'd really died.










Okay, I'm crazy, I saw a ghost.





Or do ghosts only go at night, Dr. Winkel?










There used to be a lot of kids here.






Really? I still have bad digestion, Holly.



















Old Lime has better things to do.


















































But the dead better stay dead, they haven't lost anything, poor people.









































































































What good have we done him?


























All these kids, the victims of penicillin speculation.

That's too bad, isn't it?























- Okay, sir. Don't tell me you're doing this for free.






















































































































Children are the future leaders of our nation.
We must cherish the children.
We have to respect the children.








Dear little friends, today is your holiday.

Let's celebrate Children's Day!
Children are the future leaders of our nation.

We must cherish the children, respect the children.





















































This one's good.






Whose baby is that?






Look, man,




I'm selling kids.
Who needs kids?
I'm selling kids.


These kids don't fit.



Hey, kid, do you have parents?









- Really?
Impossible! I don't have children.



Who can't have children, you or me?



This kid, Three Woloxins, is here.
Okay, let him come in.


I've made inquiries, he's from a very good family.





Okay.













Okay.





Mrs. Woo, I'll invite guests to see the baby on Saturday.











Hey, can't you see that this baby is exactly like the big sister?





































Dear Ladies and Gentlemen. Today we are present at this worthy gathering of honored guests and members of our large family.










And now the solo of young barin Tommy "Oh, my dear."














They're all my friends!







She's getting better.





It was your dear son who arranged it. Goddamn beggar!










































We're here today to open the Children's Aid Society.
Our children have no education.
Many social problems force our children to eat poorly, limit the means of treatment.

I'd like to make a donation to help these kids.
and to open a new school for these needy children.







































You beat up a little kid.




















































Okay.











































Mr. Ho's school teacher lives here with his three children.


His kids are home.








Stupid kid.



















Honey, you're like your brother.











Well, spending money would be good for him.















Other children steal books.




All right, take the money and have lunch.
























All right, how dare you lie to me?















Really?







Good morning.

My work is done.




























- Oh, honey.












We're just friends.









Yes, darling.
























Okay.






















You're just a kid.










Okay.






Okay, okay.




















Okay, I'll talk to you.



As far as you're concerned, write a job application here tomorrow.









All right, go, go.





I'm gonna go to work as my personal secretary.
This job costs $200 a month.













Good morning.




























































It's hard work that cheers a man up.







Your job is very simple.







You'll be teaching my son and daughter in the evenings.









Yeah, I have an approach to the kids.













































































Your big brother's Ben's friend?




He really needs money.







Okay.






















Man, don't make a kid go to school.






Yeah, he's my friend.
Your friend?

I'd rather work than go to school.































Is that true?








You can start work at the factory tomorrow.











































It's the same thing every night.













































Sir, our work is very hard.







Go back to work.














That's a good idea.





































You, get back to work.





I told you to get back to work, and you're out of your business.
You don't have to come to work tomorrow.


























Good plan.






Let's get to work.





That's a good plan.



Okay.






















I was just on my way to work.















And Chang, stay here and keep an eye on the kids.





















































We want money, not women.
Okay.
Okay.


Very good.




Even better.













































If you were a good boy, you'd go home right now.




























You're an ungrateful kid.



















I tell him I'm seeing friends.














I had dinner last night with Park In--
I'm having dinner with Lan Hing tonight.

They're my friends.




They may just stay home, but they'd better stand here and starve.










I have a friend, he's one of the bad guys.





















So, who's doing the job?
















- Really?














It's true.














Okay.
















Okay, I'll tell the teacher.






















































All right, go.












Find a decent job.

You want the baby to come with me?









I just want to say that we want adequate compensation for our work.































And Chang, be a good boy.
























































































You're in too good a relationship with the police.










We're just doing our job.






















You don't think I'm gonna put this kid in a hospital.





































You have every right, my dear, as do I... so we're even.














You're trying too hard to understand what's going on, my dear young man, and this is a serious mistake.












Okay.

















The woman stayed at the Hotel Temel.








There are no women who fit the description, and I haven't seen any Rolls-Royce either.










He's with that woman.


Inspector, tell her it's not true.

- Tell her it's not true!






















The young man is not in the hospital, and his friends are worried.































I realize I'm back and I've found the police and the woman I'm not even allowed into my house!






























I'm the driver of the woman whose car he got in yesterday.











It was better to wait a day.






I only got a job two weeks ago.








You dropped your job.


















Tell me the truth.




You must understand that women like me must be very afraid of certain people.











































The worst of these phrases is much better than any of my poems.


Orpheus, little phrases won't feed our child.
Here they are, women, Ertebise.




























He's looking for that woman.






You'd better lie down and close your eyes.










- Okay. Can you get the car out?






- Very good.





















Didn't you see a dark-haired woman go through here?



Didn't you see a young woman wasn't here?


















No one knows this better than you.

Orpheus sent me these texts yesterday morning.

I showed them to my friends.
































































He doesn't care about anything but that woman's car.























Okay.














"The morning of the young widow is fast as a midday candle."


























































































































Look at yourself in the mirror all your life... and you'll see death at work like a glass hive.




















































































You're accused of having orders... or at least permission... to take a young man in your service... you also took a woman.



















































Is it true that you walked into his room to look at him asleep?
















Ertebise, do you love this woman?

Do you love this woman?








What can we say to each other?


















I have to leave you, but I swear I'll find a way to get us back together.


































































How good of you to come.




























It's better than blinding yourself... or losing your leg.








You're not careful, my friend.








Women love complications.




























































































Let her finish the job.


































































Truth is, it's hard to understand, even in our world.


Sergeant, get to work!










































































































Hey! Good evening!

- It's cold tonight.








You can't stand here. - All right, Sergeant, I'll be right out.















I know women. And if you're not like this, I'll show you what I am.






If you're serious, I'll give you an answer tomorrow night.





































In addition to the obligations set out in the church canons, among which the most important are mutual assistance and the religious and moral education of children, you also assume obligations towards society in accordance with State laws, which you must also comply strictly with.


























- It's okay.





























It's a baby.











- Have you really been to America?





- How's the fish now? - Okay.



























The earth is good, it'll be fertile again.




And to your good land?















A woman like me needs something else.


For a woman like me, it's not money!
































Yeah, we left. America is good for young people. I'm old.

































I know what it took for him to get a job.




And yet Antonio managed to find a job.


































- Is that good?




































Please escort me to the woman who sews on the sewing machine.


She's not a very good woman. She doesn't have a reputation. It's okay.













- Good evening.
- Good evening.



















What is this woman doing to you?

















- Okay, okay!


































And this morning I got all this junk again. That's creepy!

















If you don't talk to him like a child, he doesn't understand you.






Maybe I'll text someone who's gone to America or Australia. I'll ask you if you can find a job there.





He was a widower, and he had no children.






Wouldn't that be respect for your friend's memory if the money went to two young people who wanted to live?









































- A little. We caught tuna this morning. - What's this?


























































Yeah, I'm on my third month. We're having a baby.



















Instead of giving birth here, it's better... stop it!


































It's good here, isn't it?





Remember that night when you were sick and I came to make a skirt?








- Really?

































































































































- But you wanted to stay here this morning.
- It was this morning.


- There's the best trackers in the world.




- Only I've heard there's a good track in America, too.






So let's go where we're better off.






Remember playing with the kids like that?












So I'm gonna stay here, talk to him... and then I'm gonna catch up with you at the station, okay?
- Okay.


























I did my job.















Well, since it's gonna hurt you, tomorrow the banks are gonna open... I'm gonna pay what I can, and I'm gonna work the rest.


















I have a friend here...





- I sent all the strings to my best friend, Claude.
























- Your cargo arrived this morning.





How do I get started?




























- Are you a friend of his?
- Yeah, we're really good friends.












- I'm his friend.
It's good to know about your friends.
- He said his friend's name was Claude.
















- There are women who don't understand these men.


- Under a good one.




























These are very good napoleons.




































- I've got work to do, sit down.
I see you're a good boy.









And I have some good news for you.




- Okay.















- But that was good of me.

I was a kid.
















































If you have to choose between women and horses, Joe... choose horses.
































- Like then, every night.





This morning.












Paulie's a good teacher.










































- A friend of your father's?





































- Okay.






































- Don't look at me, okay?
- Okay.











And if you love your child...









How do you see a child with a heart?







































- Of course it's better to stay with Paulie... but I want to see what's cooking, too.
- Yeah, you better go and see.































- Okay.































- He's a good jockey.



















- I thought you called George a good jockey.





It's good that by their rules, you can get your bet back.










- It's better than kicking your ass.





































Did you forget all the good stuff?





Women love children, and children should be with women.













- Joe, Joe, that's better.














I was at the doctor's.






- I'm sorry, Dan - if I said something wrong this morning... but you hit a kid who just told you the truth.











Fake, right to live, toothbrush, woman.





















- You made a deal, my friend.






You're the best player, Daddy, and you smiled at your luck.











- I was afraid you'd be upset, and you're okay, right?


























- All right, let's talk about the horse.










He's got good taste.

























So, my dear, if you'll excuse me... I'll leave you, there's more to it.


















- Okay. But I have a surprise for you.

















Now I'm in a good mood, Danny.














- Okay.







































- It's funny to hear it from you... after you say it in the morning:





























You and the baby.
The baby and I.


I'm the best guy you can fall in love with.

















- He offered me this job.




























































We'd better go, Joe.
Joe, your dad made the best ride I've ever seen.























Well... if that's what you want.





Okay.









Okay, lady.








She said she wanted something more expensive.






If you know what's best for you, say it.






- If this woman is your friend...

I'm worried about you, Mr. Simms, and your wife, my client, and a very dear friend.





The woman you're bothering, Mrs. William Sutton, is the wife of an outstanding psychoanalyst.




Your job as manager is to protect your clients as well as the store from the scandal.
I don't need advice on my job, Mr. Korvo.
You'll think differently when you see your name on the front page of the paper. The man who pursues a sick woman is in a state of nervous distress.



A woman as rich and educated as Mrs. Sutton can't be a thief.



The doctor and Mrs. William Sutton have been holding an open-account loan for five years.

























- Hello, darling.
- What happened, darling?
- Nothing, darling.






Honey, I was just asking her if you were busy.
I was wondering if you'd like to go to the concert tonight.






I wanted to write a letter tonight.
- Of course not, darling.














- I don't hate them at all, darling.

They're my job.


Your job is to work your head and finish your book.




I'm a very busy doctor and a happy husband... an enviable combination.








- Dr. Sutton's residence?



















A successful marriage is usually based on the fact that husband and wife know nothing about each other.













I don't like to scare such a beautiful woman.











You are, in a way, a disappointment, Mrs. Sutton, to the wife of a brilliant man like Dr. Sutton.






Please. Vincent is an old friend of mine.
I don't want him to think that I'm so cruel that I made a beautiful woman cry right into their soup.
That's better.










- Not very well.






Tina, darling.



Wherever you are, you always attract the best society.
Don't be stupid, darling.





































































You can't go to the doctor.


























































- Feeling better?

- I really feel like I'm resting.






A woman who no longer admires me like she used to.







I find it more convenient and less expensive.




You'd better do something about it.




















Of course it's none of my business, darling.












- He's been living at the expense of women his whole life.







Struggling for dear David in my bedroom.










- Honey, I'm covered in cream.







"This is Dr. Sutton's wife.


Thank you, darling.















Okay, put her through.




You will give every dollar you owe your loving daughter... and you will continue to live like an honest woman.
My dear ex-girlfriend, I don't think it's your stupid business where I can get the money and how.





Very good.




And watch yourself, my dear.













My dear Anne.





My dear Anne, you're talking total nonsense.


Very good.

Hello, darling.


- I don't surround my work with all the impressive little things your husband and his buddies honored by professors, like chubby couches and counting machines.








As your doctor, can I draw your attention to the irrationality of your behavior?






I know you, Anne, better than you know yourself.











It's better than stealing than a nervous breakdown.










I woke up this morning with a brand-new woman, like nothing ever happened.
I daresay it gave you a little confidence in your doctor.







You have the talent to lure women and make them dependent on you.
















Tell her you took her warnings to heart, and you're gonna talk to me, just as a doctor, at a four-step distance.










- Hurry up, okay, Vincent?





















And Sergeant Robert Jeffries and Dr. Peter Devall, psychiatrist,







"Question: What time did you leave the house tonight?





Did you know that Mrs. Randolph was strangled between 9:00 and 10:00 p.m.?" "




























Is that Dr. William Sutton?




You can leave at two o'clock, Doctor.

























♪ It's over ♪ ♪ at 11:43 p.m. ♪



All right, Bob.






Dr. Sutton, I know it's hard for you, but you have a right to know all the facts.






I'm sorry, Doctor, for poking this, but we have witnesses to their relationship, staff at the Corvo Hotel.

That... that can't be true.










She's waiting in Dr. Devall's office.






We're not trying to trick this case, Doctor.





I think I should explain to the doctor that... Anything your wife says when she answers your questions can be used against her.






Will you tell me the truth, Anne?

Of course, darling.









Yeah, it's true.












The truth is, you dated Korvo for weeks at his hotel.













You don't want to hear the truth.











I'm afraid it's obvious, Doctor.



Pretty good marriage.

It's very hard to tell the truth to a husband who trusts her.







I know I was Mrs. Randolph's doctor.













He ran away. Calm down, Doctor.

- But he's gone! Facts, Doctor. You're saying Corvo and Mrs. Randolph stole $50,000 from her daughter's money together.

I advised Mrs. Randolph to tell her daughter the truth, to sue David Corvo and to throw all this dirt on him... as the only way she could improve her health.












Okay.






I'm Dr. Wayne, senior intern at the hospital.
How long have you known this patient, Doctor?



I don't like to interfere, Doctor.






I assisted Dr. Winslow.







- You're Dr. Sutton, aren't you?

Give the doctor a chart, Miss Elliot.













- Yes, Doctor.


- When? Between 9:00 and 10:00 last night.


- Thank you for your cooperation, Doctor.



I know how you feel, Doctor.









I don't know, Doctor.








- No, doctor, I didn't open it.
- How long have you worked for Dr. Sutton, Miss Hall?






- No, Doctor.


Dr. Sutton has ever told you what was in them.
- Nope. The doctor never talks to me about his patients.





I'd like to examine the other part of the house, Doctor, if you don't mind.

Is that your wife's handwriting, Doctor?






- I'm Martin Avery, Dr. Sutton's lawyer.




I'm your friend, as good as a lawyer, Bill.




And our only best defense is insanity.



Yeah, it's a shock if it's true.







He could hypnotize her, force her to kill a woman.




Sit down, Dr. Sutton.
I'll try not to fall asleep if you want to talk to me, Dr. Sutton.







Stupid. Arrested an innocent woman.
The medical diagram deserves your approval, Dr. Sutton?





I wanted to call her this morning before I read the papers.













An experienced man always knows when a woman believes him.










I didn't think I was gonna tell the truth about life to a great psychoanalyst.













- I'm Dr. Sutton.




We'd better think about getting the doctor to sleep.









They look like this lady, okay.


Shall we go, Doctor?
















Run away from the truth, like you've always done since you married me.















- I'm telling you the truth.




























My husband is a very good man.
I don't think there's a better and a nicer one.







It's better if he divorces me.






























She can tell the truth.

She's telling the truth.



I saw you... this morning, I think.







If that's true, you could tell me, too.
- It's true.


I understand you had a conversation with her husband this morning.






I'm too old to cover for this kind of woman.



Personally, I have nothing against women who cheat on their husbands.










You'd make a good prime suspect.
Even better than poor Anne?










Dr. Sutton.
The husband of a woman who seems to be accused of murder?


You mean Mrs. Randolph's record during Dr. Sutton's course?

















Okay.








A woman like Anne can't change suddenly.
Fingerprints and unclear circumstances can't erase a woman's heart and character as if they never existed.


Okay.




I began to resent the way a man should not, attacking this woman, who knowingly never did bad things.


This morning, when we discovered that the footage was missing from my office, I knew immediately who took it.





- All the more so, you must think so now, Doctor.








I wouldn't rely too much on her coming home soon, Doctor.

He made her steal the tapes, then she went to Mrs. Randolph's house under hypnosis, and she was found there with a dead woman when the police came in. And that's how it happened.
It would have been a good line of defense if you had figured out who the killer was.
- Corvo. - Wait a minute, Doctor.












Dr. Theodore Herr, surgeon, managing himself under self-hypnosis, cut his own appendix, it took four and a half hours.


No shock. - I can't agree with that, Doctor.

Here's what happened, Corvo hypnotized himself and slipped out of the hospital at 8:00 p.m., and went to kill Mrs. Randolph, just like he threatened.



You're not gonna help your wife with these delusional theories, Doctor.




Okay.








I have to do my job, as usual.


- Look, Doctor... there's nothing special about your wife except that she's more involved than anyone else in a murder case.











Daisy told me the police came this morning.






There's a new article in the papers this morning that the police suspect someone other than Mrs. Sutton.


































What's Dr. Sutton's number?

I have a lot to tell you, Dr. Sutton.















I felt strong, Doctor, some sort of cleansing.....the feeling that he was leaving and my nerves, my skin.

























You've always kept the truth from me.


But you know the truth now.






When you married me, I insisted that you start with me as a poor doctor's wife and that you shouldn't spend your money.










I don't like to interrupt the conversation, Doctor, but I'm here as a cop, not a companion.




















- I don't think it's gonna work, Doctor.

































There's nothing there, Doctor.




I know she's telling the truth.











- Your wife's exhausted, doctor.


- She'll be working tomorrow morning.
































- "Then he judged you Dr. Sutton."






- It's better if we help you.
"Dr. Sutton gave me the strength to live like a man."














I'm placing Mrs. Sutton under your protection, Doctor.

It's good to have a wife who comes back to your house.
































Some have many wealthy friends who aren't afraid to lose a little money.




































It was a rainy evening.


It's weird. But I'm used to seeing her every night.




For weeks now, you've been waiting every night to watch Margo Channing leave the theater.





You're Margot Channing's best friend.




The best.







You don't think it's expensive enough, let alone the rest.













- Good evening, Guss.
- Good evening, Mrs Richardson.





Honey, you'd write the same play about the Northers.










Write a play about a normal woman who kills her husband.





My dear wife.







- Really?





















How could I not see her? She's here every night.









Good evening, Mr Richards.
And this is my friend and associate, Miss Birdie Coonin.



I think you're gonna have some things to do in the bathroom, darling.












Really?














But you must have friends, home, family.











Then I went to the next night and the next...








I was an only child.








It's hard to imagine in a job like this that you're capable of anything else.






















I got a job, I got his insurance.



























- But you're better.



My dear, my indistinguishable, cracked lady.










I think I'm better... I don't have words to say how happy I am.

Mr. Sempson is leaving, you have so much to say to each other.














Tomorrow night, I'll be right back.
- But now as a friend.





Mrs. Richards... for the rest of my life, I won't forget tonight.


Where did Lloyd and I go that night?











Then why? You're the best, the most successful director in the theater.





















































































That same night, we sent for Eva's things, which were very few.


Eva became my sister, a lawyer, a mother, a friend, a psychologist and a guardian.




















They're cute, aren't they, Birdie?


















Let Miss Brown take the dress.























Goodbye, darling. Sleep tight.











Happy birthday, darling.
You could've played better. Yeah, okay.







Really?



Okay. - How's she doing?




Good night, darling.

Birdie... you don't like Eva, do you?








She thinks only of me. Really?







Good morning.












It's my job.
See you tonight.


- Yeah, honey, you forgot.











I knew I felt it when I finished dressing that night.


















- Don't take it tonight.









Some winter night.



Looks like I'm gonna have a nice night.


















The night Lincoln was shot. I'm not funny.




























Eva Harrington did not express in my presence anything other than adoring for you and the joy that we love each other.














Hey, Eva. Good evening.




































Put your seat belts on, it's gonna be an interesting night.
Margo, darling, hello.



What are you doing here? Dear Margot, you are the real Peter Pan.








Good evening, Mr. DeWitt.

We were officially introduced to each other recently.


Yes. Eva, this is Mr. DeWitt's mother's old friend,







You won't be able to bore him, darling.





















Why don't you bow down?


If my guests don't like it here, take them to the maid's room, they'll be better off there.










Friends, that's what matters.
And I have friends.





Max, darling... one good sip and you'll get rid of this Miss Kaswell.














Really? I'm always ready to help you out, Max.




Take Eva Harrington to work.



She doesn't have much work to do right now, and I don't want to stand in her way.





I don't think that's a good idea.


















Okay.


















































Miss Channing's business is perfectly normal right now, and I don't have much work to do.
Not that I wanted to leave her, but I heard Mr. Fabian say that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they're looking for a replacement.







- No, darling, Margot himself.













































A job with a lot of mutual learning and sweat.
I agree. To be a good actor or actress, you have to want it more than anything in the world.














You're in the hive too, darling. You didn't know? We're all bees that make honey day and night.












- That's a good idea.


















- Really, Eva?





































Allowing a woman to be pregnant late...
































Are you feeling better, darling?



























Really?









































Better be Byemond and Fletcher. They died 300 years ago.






















































Tell that to Dr. Freud.







You're a beautiful and smart woman.

A beautiful and smart woman, and a great actress.






Obviously, you're not a woman.

- I'm a woman.



I admit I've had my best days, but I can't be bought for one cocktail... with a salty peanut.



































You don't have enough epithets, darling.
































When we took Margot to the train station on Monday, he and Lloyd even managed to be polite to each other.

















































That's how kids behave.



















Stupid, really, just sit in the car and get cold.









You throw something out on the way upstairs to move faster... and forget... that you're gonna need it when you decide to be a woman again.
All women have only one career to be a woman.

It doesn't matter how many careers we've had before. There's nothing better:

Without that, you're not a woman.
You can be an important person, even famous, but you won't be a woman.










It's a good thing she invited me... and a few other journalists from other newspapers.


It wasn't just good, baby, it was a real show.







Patience and hard work, and you'll be a good actress if that's what you want.







You always want the truth on stage.


From that very first night, in this dressing room...
















It's a good thing they didn't throw anything.






















Or should I pretend I'm busy? Let's leave it.











That first night when Margot hit you so hard, what theater was that in?







Where do you want to go on such a special evening?


































It's even better now.











Your Bill is here, darling.
It's gonna be okay.
It's gonna be okay.




















If we make a good choice of actors.























Okay, about 12 o'clock.





They're gonna die without each other.










It's true.

It's a very special night. I heard Miss Harrington applied.



















In the cathedral, or in the city park, we want you to be with us as our closest friends.












All women are in danger.






























You know, I always thought I was a very smart girl, I was sure I had a good head on my shoulders.














But I have some good news.


She has such loyal friends. Much more loyal than she could have expected.







You have a powerful friend in his face.
He's not my friend.
You were my friends.


I want my friends back.












































Like a woman with a woman, including your hopes to play Cora?
































Really? The place where the elite spends their time.


















- Fiancé. - Yes, darling?

















The role is great, excellent, but it's not for me, not for a 40-year-old married woman.

I have to find time to live, not play the roles I'm old for... just because I have nothing to do with evenings.










She said she had a lot of work to do around the house.

Lloyd never interfered so much in Bill's work because of everything that happened to Eva.
















No, no, she didn't say anything, but I saw Mr. Richards with her a couple of times and thought they were probably friends.











Tomorrow morning you will have your seat on the banks of immortality.


Instead, I can't wait for the evening, the beginning and the end.


I'll remember tonight.

















Costumes are expensive.







That's for tonight.








Addison, a few minutes ago, when I said that tonight would give me everything I wanted...

















He's gonna write his best plays for me, and I'm gonna make them great.











That he'd leave Karen. That he can't keep working unless I promise to marry him.

























Okay, let's be straight, though I think you already know what I'm saying.






After tonight, you will belong to me.



































You've never been married. It's a lie that offends the dead heroes and the women who loved them.











Like all curious women, she told more than she knew.





We deserve each other.








This is gonna be the best performance of your life.
It was her best play.
It was the night that you couldn't forget.









Max Fabian, dear Max.

My first friend in the theater, whose kindness I will never forget.


A great actress and a wonderful woman.



Without his faith in me and his play, this evening would have been impossible.








Everyone got what they deserved, darling.















It's gonna be a fine evening in your honor.




You're acting like a kid.

Okay, I'll give you a ride and go to the party alone.
























They're just movie stars. Is it true you're going to Hollywood?



- The maid will clean up in the morning.


















































Arrested last night.

























































I think it'll be the best punishment.






















Have you heard of "professor" or "doctor"?


































































Feed the cat when the kids starve.



























































































Okay. What other problems remain?









Bear, this is the most expensive, let's say 25 thousand.

Lewis Cjavelli, he's the best in Chicago.

Opens the safe like a can, but it's expensive.


















Of course, it's best to stay out of it, but... I know serious people who might be interested.



Okay. One more thing.















- Good day, sir.

















There's a job for you.


Go around my debtors, starting in the morning.








Yes, I will. Okay.
























Really?



















































There's the best water in the whole country.








































- I thought you were my friend.
I'm a friend of my own.
























- Call a doctor.

Okay.










You see, my friend. A private detective should be held back.









That's the harsh truth.






































Okay.


















Good job.










































Gus thinks he's good, and he's rarely wrong.



























I met her on the street this morning.


























Okay?













- Is the boy better?






My friend, you know some Emmerich?









Okay. We'll see Emmerich right after the case.









































Okay.











Let's finish the job.
That's not very good.











That's good, we're done.

- Good job.








- You need to see a doctor.








It brings me to a good mood... which gives me courage.




































































- Okay, Mr....



























And remember, you can lose your skin as your friend.









Where's the doctor?





Don't worry, Maria, Lewis is gonna be okay.
The doctor's gonna fix it, it's gonna be like new.





















Gaz, I beg God for a doctor to come.


Deeks. Call Gaza, have him take you to the doctor.
I don't like doctors.
































Doctor, it's for you.



Okay.




























His body was caught this morning.















Is there a connection between his work and his death?



He was killed early this morning.






























Tell me I was with you... between 5:00 and 3:00 in the morning.



No, no. It's politics, darling.

- Okay, call me later.







My friend died.





















Look, friends.
Friends, I'm a respectable man. I'm happy to help Gaza.



- Okay, we'd better get out of here faster.
Our friend Eddie will talk, talk.


I'm sorry, my friend, I have to do this.















































Is that right? Is that true?

























































All right, go to Camden Street, 4117.














































































- Really, Uncle? Are you kidding me?























Your friend Cobby confessed.













Tell the commissioner the truth.




Mr. Emmerich was here on Friday from 2:30 in the morning.


Is that true?



Tell the truth.











This time, tell me the truth.

























How's your head, Doc? Okay, as far as possible.

























- Do you have a gun, darling?




You'd better turn yourself in when you're caught.
That's right, that's better.























- It's better than a train.


















She's in good condition.























All right, get your suitcase.



















Come on. - Okay.


- Mr., we'd better get going.





















































We need a doctor!

















Hello, Tom, this is Dr. Svenson.
















































- it's gonna be okay. - Oh, my God.
If dad didn't sell the black stallion everything's gonna be okay.


























So he remarried... to a woman from a good family... who had two daughters, one with Cinderella age. Their names were Anastasia and Drizella.



But, no matter what, she still remained as kind and sweet, and every morning gave her a new hope that one day... her sweet dreams would come true.

I know, I know, it's been a great morning, but... it was a beautiful dream, too.


















"It's time to get started."





























Jacques, I think you'd better tell him what's what.




We're friends.


That's better.



Well, that's better.

















































So if you don't want to lose a warm bed, you better get rid of those dreams.



Lucifer has good sides.



But there's got to be something good about him.

















































It's the same thing from morning to evening.







Good morning, Drizella. How did you sleep?




Good morning, Anastasia.





- Good morning, Mother.






















































No, you don't understand what it means to watch... as your only child goes on...























Really?




Tonight!
- Tonight?

- Tonight!



































































Well, I don't see why you can't come with us... if you do all the work.









It's a lovely dress, isn't it?







































Work, work, work.

































- Okay.



























Okay.





































Isn't that right, Cinderella?





























Do you really think so?
- Really!





































































Well, get in the carriage, darling.






- It's beautiful, darling. Precious...



















You must remember, my dear. Once the clock hits 12, the spell will be broken, and all this will become what it used to be.




Hurry up, darling.




























































































- Who is she? - She's beautiful, isn't she?








































And you, my friend...















- But it's true, Sire! All that's left of her is this crystal shoe.

















































































































































Sure. Anastasia, darling.












Quiet, darling.




















































Yeah, yeah. He's a very devious kid.

















































- It's hot today, isn't it?

























I assume you decided to take this little vacation only this morning at 9:00 a.m.?





























Let's go get a drink with Eddie. Okay.



The air conditioner is so good.

Well, if the heat doesn't drop, you don't have to go to work for the rest of the week.



- It's too hot for work. Good job.


You'll take it, won't you?











But, Paula, you don't know how this is gonna end. A woman always suffers more than a man.
And I don't want you to suffer, darling.



















Nice room on the sixth floor with the bay windows. He's a porter. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey

















































So I told him he could find you there tonight.


Ah, how stubborn we are tonight.























Things have gone uphill in the last few days, haven't they?













- Come on, let's go. - Well, okay. I know what it's like to be alone in a strange city.



























Yes, Mr. Wallace, I'm leaving here in the morning.










Hey, you're good.
My wife is a good dancer, isn't she, Bigelow?
Hey, I thought you were taking us out tonight.

It's the last night I'll be able to have fun before I'll be a humble housewife again.
Okay.































They're great, aren't they?















I like the good company.




Okay, where?

















The heart, too. It's a good thing not everyone has the same health as you, Mr. Bigelow, otherwise the doctors would be out of work.
Glad to hear it, Doctor. I was a little worried.

Maybe it's climate change. Well, it's not really pain, Doctor.


You can get dressed, Mr. Bigelow, I need to get your test results back. Thank you, Doctor.
Mr. Bigelow, this is Dr. Schaefer. Hello, Doctor.






What is it, Doctor?




As a result of the initial examination, I was unable to determine your true condition. - You make it sound like it's very serious, Doctor.



Well, go on, Doctor.

















- Dr. Schaefer is a recognized authority in toxicology.













Where's the doctor? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Tell me where...


Doctor, I want you to examine me for the presence of glowing poison in my system.


Your body has already absorbed it. Are you sure, Doctor?




I'm just having a little stomach disorder. Maybe it's not that bad, Doctor?


Speak straight, Doctor! Well, that depends on a few factors...




























The people who were here last night?





They checked out of the hotel this morning.






































Okay.









































































You really can't brag about good manners, can you, Bigelow?
- You were my brother's friend? - I've never met him.









Knowing Eugene, it's hard to imagine he might have been involved in a story like this, isn't it?






































You assured the document one morning before I came to work.






You also said that this Reynolds guy made some kind of deal in Palm Springs... and stopped by your office early in the morning, on his way north, to notarize her.






















































Why are you afraid to tell the truth?







He met her yesterday morning.



He'd been asking about her for months, looking for her, and he found out where she lived yesterday morning.










































Really? You're taking too much care of this picture.



You and Reynolds call each other sweet names and you make a fool out of Phillips.












This gentleman is his friend and would like to know his address.






That's right. Honesty is the best policy.

But in your case, since you're a good friend of Mr. Reynolds...


He must have come for the photo. But he can't be your good friend... because his name isn't George Reynolds.





It's a good picture, isn't it?






































Of course, I'll do it, and we'll lose our best client.

















Frank, darling.









































As long as it's true that someone tried to hurt your life.



And what I'm telling you is true I had no reason to kill you.












































- You'd better come back, believe me.











You promise? Honey, I love you so much.






























Please hurry, darling. I love you so much.








I told you everything this morning. Yeah, I've told you enough so I can follow the wrong path and not know Stanley's the one I'm looking for.







Judging by the stamp, a letter from two years ago. A typical letter to a married woman from her lover.
I'm sure my brother didn't know that they knew each other when he took Halliday to work.





















You'd better listen to me. You have to give me a chance.



























- Good evening, Master.
- Good evening.






I think my sister should be happy to see his brother at his wedding in the best outfit.



Visit cards are for a woman whose neighbors lived miles away.
Jewelry is for a woman who never looked in a mirror.
Sunlights are for a woman who never left the room.










You always laugh at me in the shower, don't you, Clay?








































Tiger won the victory thanks to his friends' friends.



You'll tell the Bank that I have the best of the best at Furies.

















- Clay, you need to learn good manners.





You wouldn't dare come without it, would you?







































Women were created to allow a man to enjoy food and bed rather than receive orders.
All right!




































- Nice work.




















All Furies are yours, okay.














I printed them on the best paper from Washington.

"friend of all mankind" which is six letters bigger than Latin "of many one".


It's a great picture, isn't it?





It would be better if I discussed this situation with Mr. Anaheim.
























He always laughs at us, doesn't he?




























What do you think, you're the best man in God's world?
- You know someone better?











I always get here first, don't I?
You always get here first, don't you?




















Okay.



Even though we grew up together and you're my friend.





Kiss your best friend.




- Thank you, Dr. Griev.
Good evening.













Sir, you've announced an open appointment tonight for anyone in the county.

You will stop spreading lies about me, and I will stop telling the truth about you.



















You're sure you're a man of God's land, aren't you?























- It's part of Darrow's precinct, isn't it?
- Really.




Let's talk about the weather, Miss Jeffords, a wonderful beautiful evening.






































Maybe it's for the best, she'll calm down.







- Okay, Mr. Darrow.







If you act like a child, I'll make you die.













- He's too good for that.













































You expect a woman like the one on the maps.









































































Truth is, our Bank wouldn't have made an agreement with you and you wouldn't have bought a horny cattle for Bailey Brothers if you hadn't kicked old T.S.





















































He's as handsome as he used to be, isn't he?




Good evening, sir.




























You're always telling the truth!




Okay, don't look for him, I brought some with me.






Daughter, I want you to meet my old and dear friend Mrs. Florence Burnett.

- My darling.






My dear.










- Good evening.
My dear, come in.












What difference does it make, dear, as long as his money has value?



I feel like we're old friends, Temple.





- Really.















- Try it, my dear.







- Good night, my dear.
Good night, my dear.


My dear, I already feel almost at home.








That's it, okay.

- Okay, son.


















- My dear, come in.





I told Temple it wasn't a woman's job-- fighting and all that.


- My dear...






My dear... it's just sacrilege, what a lovely creature like you is locked up in the Furies so you're missing a chance to drive around Europe.














It's gonna be okay, my dear.























You're up against a woman, just.






- Okay.










♪ Who doesn't tell the truth ♪














Is that true?







You really are unbridled.


You want me to hug you, don't you?



Okay.

- Flo's my friend.

And so is your good friend when you realize it.



All your life, you've been looking for a woman and a lady in one bottle.
That's right, isn't it?

You found "lady" in my mother, but she wasn't enough "woman" for you, was she?

























We're not gonna impose time-limits, are we?










My darling, I'm not the kind of guy who can crumble.


- My dear, come in.

I always said hot tea was the best woman's ally against rain.




I don't know where else I'd enjoy myself and wish I could stay, my dear.

My dear, don't even try.











The answer, my dear, is very simple.
A woman my age can be completely alone. And I find T.S. Communicating...



















Daughter, I want Flo to be your friend.









My dear, the whole county will envy you because you're going to have a wonderful trip across Europe.

And, my dear, remember, please, the Furies will always be ready for you.
The room will always be ready for her, willn't it, Temple?









- Dr. Greeve.










I'd say I did a great job.
Good night, Doctor.















































My friend wants it to be like this.


















Okay.

Okay, now you can come out my brave men!





















- Okay, I'll beg.

It's true, he wants you to beg.
But it's also true that you should be begging. He's gonna pull me up anyway.




Kiss your best friend.


It's hard to see someone you love suffer, isn't it?




- Really?






































































T.S. - That's who you hate, isn't it?
You've found a new love, haven't you, Vance?













Okay.

The sooner the better.























You're ready to hit me, aren't you?


Now you'd like to kiss me, wouldn't you?












It was an incredibly interesting evening.

If you'll excuse me, my dear Miss Jeffords is unaccompanied.

















I realized tonight that you're the one he counts with.
You're a very smart woman.


I like smart women.








Have a nice day.



I told you this meeting wouldn't take place until tonight.
You'll forgive an old woman if I'm a little suffocated.






















Okay, darling.

Yes, darling.



Okay.








































Did you really think I'd help you?








If you get out now, you're gonna find yourself another woman not disfigured not drinking too much.

































































He's the best I've ever worked for.
He's the best I've ever seen.
He's the best I've ever heard of.
















































Tomorrow night, T.S. He's gonna come get his money.



Tomorrow night, you'll be the owner of Fury.





You did a great job.
















You thought it was gonna be something special, didn't you, Vance?





























































You've been dying to say this for so long, haven't you?








































Call Dr. Griev, he's at the bar.





























I thought the boy liked to feel better about something.











Well, Clyde, Bart and I have been best friends since Bart got to town.

Well, it's true, Judge.






















































I'm probably the best shooter in Cashville.









































I don't know why... but I feel so good when I shoot him like I'm someone very important.







And it's my responsibility to decide what's best not only for you... but also for the society you live in.






Kids, why didn't you call me?



















No, no. I'll get someone to work.


Okay.

































Maybe I'll find a job at Remington.










Tonight, this girl told me that she was so confident... that she agreed to double the $250 that would be paid to anyone who outdone her.
















































Okay.


- Got a job?




You always have a place for a good man, don't you?
I could get you a job.


























You're seeing her tonight, aren't you?


Except she's not the kind of woman who can make you happy.


It's just that some guys from birth know about women, and some are born stupid.
































How you look at each other every night like a couple of wild animals.







































When I was a kid... I stole a gun from the store and I...


Bart, I wasn't good either, at least until now.

Okay.









It'll be five cents more expensive.




























































































































































































- What is it, darling?


No, darling.










































- But we're safe now, darling.
































- Okay, darling.
- Bart, honey.




With these pictures in the papers, man and woman.







- It's better than three months in prison... in separate cells.








































































Goodbye, darling.
















- Okay.




























































Why don't we take a little walk tonight?
Okay.

We'll buy ourselves a good ranch and settle in there.












- I've been waiting for this evening.



Honey, let's go home.































I'll put the kids to bed first.
Kids, go to bed.


























Ruby told the neighbors that the kids were sick and wouldn't go out.

I wish you hadn't called me.










Why would I bring shame on my children before?



Okay.



























- No one's gonna shoot me and the baby.







See if Ruby and the kids are okay.






- That's great, isn't it?








- Come on, darling.




Come on, darling.
















Bart, it's so good to be so close to you.












































Of course not, darling.














































What luck! My dear, the point of today's reception is to... bring you into society, and you could meet nice young people.


Myrtle, darling, you're very sweet and you have something to offer.


Keep it together, darling.








I'll be right back, darling.





Vita, my dear.

















Okay.
















The doctor will see you now.










- That's good.

Okay. Give me a paw. Careful, don't fall.













Thank you. He decided to come here this morning.












How about dinner at my house tonight?
Thank you, Mr. Dowd. But I can't tonight.
And tomorrow night? Are you okay?
















So, I'll see you tomorrow at 7:00 p.m., Mr. Meagles.






































What do you want, darling?

He doesn't come to Yale's alumni nights.




















How beautiful it is to find out that a beautiful woman awaits you.





Isn't that right, Vita? You're so kind.











Harvey, I told you about Aunt Ethel Schoven. She's a good old friend of mine.




Well, we should go say hello to the rest of our friends. Come on, Harvey.




















Really, he's getting old.








Wait, take your time, darling.











I went to the doctor across the street.




It was wonderful. Could you come tomorrow night, Mrs. Cummings?




















Are you there, my dear?


















Okay?









Wait for me here, Elwood, darling.










































I'll see if Dr. Sanderson can see you.
Dr. Sanderson?
I want to see Dr. Chumley himself!
Dr. Sanderson takes everyone.
Dr. Chumley doesn't do it.





I'm Dr. Sanderson.








It's not easy for me, Doctor.







Kids have to be raised, you know.







I'll wait. Doctor, anything I tell you will be strictly between us?





If you don't call it excessive, Doctor, then I don't know what to call excessive.













Doctor, I told you.












Doctor. I'll tell you something I've never told anyone.




Don't tell anyone, Doctor.







- Doctor!























Look, man, is it safe for me to be here?



















I'm a respectable woman!



Dr. Sanderson!




Okay, honey, but hurry up.










- But, Doctor, I...






- I thought the woman was normal... and I told Wilson to put her brother in the 24th room of the South Wing. - He's in there now.



Seriously, Doctor.
Doctor, I'm terribly sorry.







I'll tell Dr. Chumley you had nothing to do with this.

You're the last person I'd want that to. You know that, Dr. Sanderson!

Then, Doctor, there'll be no more time or place! Oh, my God!

I'll report this carefully to Dr. Chumley. Maybe he'll take care of it.









Dr. Chumley, I'm afraid there's been a huge mistake.
Dr. Sanderson, there can be no mistakes in our establishment.






Could you come down to Dr. Sanderson's office with me?






- Dr. Sanderson, they'll explain everything to you. - Here I am.









- Okay. Goodbye.



Mr. Dowd, I take a bath every morning before work.




I'm Dr. Lyman Sanderson, Dr. Chumley's assistant. And I...




You're very beautiful, my dear.



- I want you to meet my best...





No, really, Mr. Dowd.















So let's talk straight. I like that, Doctor.
After all, it's for the best.




- Truth be told...






It's not Dr. Sanderson's fault.






She's a very sick woman.








Yes, it is, Doctor.
Truth is, I wouldn't mind right now.
Truth is, I would, too. But her reaction was very strong.




Is she... really?






Doctor, before we move on... may I introduce you and Miss Kelly to my friend...







- You have a great sense of humor. Isn't that right, Miss Kelly?










Very rarely, Doctor.






Let Vita take care of it.






- I like you, too, Doctor.




I'm sorry, but we're at work right now.



Miss Kelly and I are free at 10:00 P.M.




The four of us are gonna have a great night.
I want you to be friends with my dear friend...

- Yeah, yeah. - Okay, I'll see you later.




Doctor, you've been great with him.








You're on my husband's georgins. I'm Dr. Chumley's wife.



- Yeah, my friend Harvey.









Dr. McClue's having an appointment for his sister from Wichita.
I didn't know Dr. McClue had a sister in Wichita.
- Do you know Dr. McClue?






If I see your friend inside, I can give him a message.






- But how do I know your friend?





But Harvey's not only a fart, but also my best friend.



Really, Vita doesn't really like him.
Do you think, Mrs. Chumley, that's not very good?

I've long given up the idea that my family would like my friends.





















Why don't you stop by my house for dinner tomorrow night?
I'll have my friends in an informal setting.





I don't like taking you away like this, but we promised Dr. McClue we'd be early.
One second, darling.
My hat and coat, Miss Kelly - Yes, Dr. Chumley.
Dr. Sanderson, I'm leaving.
What about the woman with the big white rabbit?

- Yes, Doctor.
- Okay.

- Yes, Doctor.








Hello, Dr. Chumley. Like...






It must be yours, Doctor.


- Honey, let me say...
- No, honey, it's not yours either.









He said he was looking for a friend named Harvey.






He said his friend was a fart. Whatever that means.





So you gave him a pass, Dr. Sanderson!





And your job, Dr. Sanderson, is over in this place.



You two get the woman out of the bathtub!






God, I'm late for Dr. McClue.










- Dr. Chumley, there's been a strange thing...
























Um, character, friends.
Men liked him, women. I liked him.
Women?




- What happened, darling?












































- And then one of the doctors... came up and asked me a bunch of questions.






You think doctors in places like this are all about sex?



Judge Gaffney always walks, doesn't he, Judge?
- Really?

You said one of the doctors went up and talked to you?
Yes, Dr. Sanderson.









Anything you say to Dr. Sanderson, you can tell us.












































- Really?











Really? What is it?



Dr. Chumley's checking police stations. - I have to catch up with him.










- Do you like your job?







Mr. Cracker, I invited my friends tonight at 10:00 P.M.












First work, then pleasure. Even the way I'm gonna be with you.




What is it? - He's not here, Doctor.






- Okay, Doctor. Why did you send him away? Why do some people stop others from getting to know each other?
- Come on, darling.





There's been an unfortunate mistake this morning, I've already fired my assistant...
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Please, you can just-- - I'll get in touch with you in the morning.









- I'm Dr. Chumley.

- Nice to meet you, Dr. Chumley.









- Okay, fine.


I'm listening to Dr. Chumley.






Dr. Chumley, if that's the case, I want you to understand something.








It's gonna be okay.

Doctor, it's not my mother!


He was here, Doctor!









Okay. Hello.










Yeah, honey, Harvey's here.




- Doctor!

Yeah, honey, Harvey's here, but he can't come to the phone.

















- He's talking to a rabbit, isn't he? - They tell each other everything.
- Okay.

Doctor, don't go there.









- Really?




I think I'm gonna miss Dr. Chumley, too. Even though he fired me, I admire him a lot.
You may miss your psychos and freaks, Dr. Sanderson!








Save your psychiatry for your new job! I don't use psychiatry. Let me give you some friendly advice.

Thank you so much for your history, your illness, Doctor.









- Okay.

I'm waiting for Dr. Chumley to come back.

Didn't Dr. Chumley come back with that psycho?


When I came back for him, she said the doctor left for her brah...




I can't think. Poor doctor must be lying in a puddle of blood.









Before Dr. Chumley gets back, I'm in charge here!


- What do you want, friends?




- They were here about four hours ago. - I can't say for sure. I've been serving people of average height all night.






If this lunatic did anything to Dr. Chumley, I'm gonna kick his teeth out...

I'll talk to him. - I've been waiting for you. - Where's the doctor?







- Don't be, my dear.
You know, Doctor, after what happened this morning, these flowers should be from you.



- Dr. Chumley is your friend and wants to help.


Well, I've been fighting reality for 35 years, Doctor. And I'm happy to say that I finally won.
Mr. Dowd, where's Dr. Chumley?





Dr. Chumley came in here today? Yeah, that's right.






I searched that pub. There's no doctor here.


And then what happened? I introduced Harvey and the doctor. And he sat with us.
Harvey was sitting here, and the doctor sat across from Harvey so he could see him.




What happened after you introduced Dr. Chumley Harvey?

Knowing he didn't like to drink alone, I offered Dr. Chumley a drink, too. And we had a drink.










Dr. Chumley hooked up with her and started explaining that... they met once...

Then her companion led Dr. Chumley back to me and Harvey and explained that it would be better for Dr. Chumley if he... stayed out of it and took care of his business.







Mrs. Smefills' satellite seemed very upset and looked at the doctor. So Harvey and I decided to take the doctor somewhere else.
Harvey offered the Blondis Chiken restaurant, and the doctor wanted to go to Eddie.

You don't believe the doctor was talking to a big white rabbit, do you? Why?

At first, Dr. Chumley was afraid of Harvey, but, um, it was evening, and fear gradually began to change with admiration.
"The night." Isn't that a nice expression?



You did something to Dr. Chumley, and I'll find out what. Stop!




- Mr. Cracker, will you allow me to stand up for my friends?



But at least one sound, hmm, and you're gonna get out of here. Okay. Keep dancing.

That's it. Dr. Sanderson.


And Dr. Chumley better be there, buddy, or it's gonna get worse! - Mr. Wilson?



Mr. Dowd, do you know anything else that might help us find a doctor?













Maybe it's better to go somewhere else.




- Okay, Mr. Dowd, if you like.


I'm sure Dr. Sanderson will be happy to dance with such a beautiful girl.

- Okay.

It's been a long time since we danced with each other. Yeah, a lot of time.







- Okay, if you'd like.













We come as strangers. And soon we're friends.






The same people come back sometimes, but it's... it's jealousy, my dear.
There's a little envy in even the best of us.




That's a pretty interesting coincidence, Doctor.
One night, a few years ago, I was walking through Fairfax Street. Between 18th and 19th.





"Good evening, Mr. Dowd." And I turned around... and saw the big 6-foot rabbit, who stood leaning on the torch.



"Ed Hicky is a little out of shape tonight. Or am I wrong?"














Tell me, Dowd, did you have a friend when you were a kid?
Someone you spent a happy watch with? Yes, it was, Doctor.





- Do you know the McElhaini family, Doctor? - Nope.








No one, Doctor.

We've been to every bar, and Dr. Chumley isn't anywhere. I brought help.



- Okay, Lyman. I'm just afraid I won't be able to stay long.








It's you, Doctor!


- Are you all right, Doctor?



You called me, Doctor? Nope.






Who's chasing you, Doctor?



Who came out of the window, Doctor?










Dr. Chumley, I walked around the building and climbed through the window. - I didn't see anyone.



Dr. Chumley, if you need me, I...



I caught him, Doctor.




- Thank you, Doctor.
















- No, thank you, Doctor.







- Yeah, that's all you said.





Wonderful woman.
Harvey told me last night that Rose, Aunt Mrs. McElhaini... would suddenly come to her...
- from Cleveland this morning. - And she did it?






















I'm having a great time with you now, Doctor.




And I'd go there with a beautiful woman.











And how long is this supposed to last, Doctor?




I feel like you're making a mistake not letting a woman talk.






By the way, Doctor, where's Harvey?






Excuse me, Doctor. I need to say goodbye to my friends before I go.
Mr. Dowd, none of those people are your friends. - But know I'm your friend.





And my sister did all this one morning?
She's very energetic, isn't she? Oh, my God!

Doctor, I...








Okay, thanks.

- Wait here, Vita, darling.


You're excruciating, darling. And this could be a hard test.




I wish to see Dr. Chumley. Excuse me, sir.



I was the one who called you when we caught Mr. Dowd. I'm Dr. Sanderson.





- Hello, Doctor... put Elwood in.


Doctor, what is your opinion?













- Let's get this over with, Doctor.
- Sorry, you have to settle this with Dr. Chumley. So what are we waiting for?
Girl, let Dr. Chumley know I'm here, or I'll do it myself.


- Is Dr. Chumley here?

Where's the doctor?

- Are you okay, Doctor?
- Yeah, thanks. It's okay.


- Good evening, Elwood.


So, Dr. Chumley, are we finally gonna settle this or not?
I... I brought this case to Dr. Sanderson. Nope. Did you forget I don't work here anymore, Dr. Chumley?
Dr. Sanderson, please don't give a shit what I said this morning.











An element of argument in any conversation is a good thing. So everyone's taking part and nobody's gonna throw it away.






My dear, you are more beautiful than ever. I'm happier than ever, Mr. Dowd.

And this rabbit thing must be a good thing.




Well, Doctor, if that's what you think, I'm sure it's a great thing.


Did you hear that, Doctor?



You're my brother, we've known each other for years.








I wish it wasn't tomorrow!

Our friends don't come to visit anymore.






Where to, Doctor?


Vita, will you tell Dr. Chumley to say goodbye to my old friend for me?
Dr. Sanderson, can't you...







Dr. Sanderson said it wouldn't be long.
- Sit down, my dear.


Calm down, darling.
















































And there's my good friend Judge Gaffney. - Hey. Hey.

- Do you like the job?


- How interesting, isn't it, Vita? - Yes.







We'll be waiting for you and happy to see you. - Really, Vita?
- Elwood, I'm sure this man has friends of his own.
There aren't many friends.
Don't keep the doctor waiting.



We're waiting for you and your brother tomorrow night.


















They're yelling at me," Watch the road!



















Don't, darling.
Dr. Sanderson is giving a shot. I don't want that.


You haven't given him a shot yet, have you?










- Okay, honey.







- Vita, it's okay.







Okay, Vita. Wait, I'll take the hat and the coat.





Thank you, Doctor.




Mr. Wilson, can we... have the pleasure of seeing you at lunch tomorrow night?
There will be a few of my friends, in an informal setting.





Goodbye, Mrs Simmons. I'll see you tomorrow night.











Doctor, whatever he wants, I'll totally agree with him. He knows that.

Do you want to stay with the doctor?






Hurry up, darling.


No, I... I thought you decided to stay with the doctor.

















Yeah, I'll put it in the front. Okay.















Just tell me you almost liked it, and you're working tomorrow.










- Good evening.























Deeks, my friend, how many times do I have to tell you?







One day I'm gonna surprise everyone by writing something good.































I'll drop by in the morning, wake you up at ten o'clock.














- Home. What happened? You don't like friends anymore?






Do you despise all women, or only those you know?








































Before Paul's job, I thought the actors were writing themselves.












So it's about the woman, Alice Bruce.































































He's good, he's self-sufficient, he's very calm, he lives with his parents, with a good job.










Okay.



And good luck to you.





































































- Nope. Dr. Jackson said the killer acted with his whole hand.






















Friends and neighbors will confirm.


















Did you see Mr. Steele last night?


































Often young women are attracted to your face, Mr. Steel?











How would you feel if you had to go in for questioning at 5:00 in the morning?







But he was a good officer and the subordinates liked him.
















All right, sir.












































But, of course, I'm a better storyteller.


















June 22, 11th,









- Hello. - Good morning.





















It's a good thing you liked my face.
















It's a good thing we didn't make it.































It would be better to meet in a more favourable atmosphere.







Okay.












First thing in the morning, he came to the station.



















Okay, go on.

















































- What a night. - Yes.












Okay. But to me, you're more attractive, even though you're less intelligent.




Okay, Martha, I'll see you in the morning.
















































You're the most beautiful, aren't you?



















Really? Well, we've got a lot for him.












Charlie's a friend of mine, he only speaks poems and only takes money.














































Do you get money for your job?

















































































He's a good businessman who wants to get married.
You'd better think about being thorough.










I took it this morning.










You really want a picnic?












You're kidding, my angel. But you'll recognize your friend. I hope it's not too late.





















- Good boy. - What did she take me for?

























Maybe it's for the best.



















































How do you like it this morning?




















We've all had enough work to do.
































You should leave for a while. Really. Take a... break.






















































A good love scene has to be about everything but love.





















There's gonna be a little party at Paul's. We invite our chosen friends and enemies. Then we'll get on a plane to Las Vegas and we'll get married by now...




That's the best.

Effy, it's okay. You can vacuum both apartments tomorrow.











I'll come to lunch, play with the kids.

I'm only gonna teach the kids what's good.







You can't fight all the time, hit cars, torture loved ones, friends.
















He's Deeks Steele. And if you love him, you have to accept the whole thing with the good and the bad.









We have to wait until something good happens.







He's really great.





























My friend, what kind of neglect?





































I took him this morning.













































































































Okay, I'll take the ring.

























- Deeks, I've been looking everywhere for you. I have... good news.


























It's a job he called "The Big Game" and history tells us that a lot of people are the victims of this game.



Kim was willing to risk everything for a copper coin... or a good friend.




Red Beard has good taste, oh, flower of pleasure.



I was really sent by Mahbub Ali, Redbeard.


He'll come to you tomorrow night.





















Kim preferred to impersonate an Indian boy... because missionaries sent white children to school.








You're a real friend.







All right, friend of the world.


Someday you're gonna be a good dealer.









































































Then ask him to bless my daughter... who still has no children.


































He's like a child.

He's smart, but he doesn't have any friends.











































I may have a few more rupees for you, little friend of the world.


















































































- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening.
































Just yesterday, a woman came to see him who was burning inside.





Bless this child, God's man.
Bless him and all the children.
You really are a good assistant.












































































































White children are sent to study.









That's what my father said to a woman he told me to take care of me when I was little.




Your father was a good man, I'm telling you.
And a good soldier when he wasn't drinking.









It's true.



















Best schooling at St. Xaver's School in Lucknow.





















































Rubbish is more expensive.







































You have such strange friends, young man.



















What do you think of that, my young friend?






Kids shouldn't see the carpet on the weasel until the whole pattern's out.
Trust me, friend of the world, I'm doing you a big favor.


























That's good.
That's very good.




But to tell you the truth...






















I'm Dr. Bronson.




I'm sure you'll do anything to make him feel good.











































I'll be here every night from dinner to evening checkup.

































Is that the way to welcome your friends now, Aboul?















A friend of the world says to you, "Look out!" I don't know.




























































Good friend of mine.










































All right.















































More than half of them... 400 men... the rest are women and a few children.








Thank you, darling, but there's nothing here that I want.






It would be of great benefit to a doctor like me.







I got a job as a train driver.














Wait a minute, Doctor.








Doctor, allow me to introduce my apprentice... who took my first year.









I'm going to Ambala tonight.

Maybe this time... the honored doctor will drive me in a wagon through this beautiful city.






Cryton Sabib will be at the Ambala train station tomorrow night... when the train from the north arrives.















Very good.













































Largan spoke very well of you.



































I ordered him to go to the Highber Pass... and find out all about the two Europeans who do geodetic work in the Himalayas.











































































Good boy.









And tonight, make a nice dinner, very tasty.






















He came to us the next morning...











































































Did you even recognize your friend when you found him?





























I often didn't find good food for you.











Your man and Mahbub Ali will take you to the valley... to the doctor.







Return to the path of knowledge... and then, son of my soul, you will be ready to enter... a new, better world.




















A friend of the world's gonna go back to the sahib school.

























It's my job to find a victim for you and let you shoot.














- He was a good guy.
- The best. I'm gonna miss him.










This life isn't for a baby.


I know you want to see him, but isn't he better where he is?











Happy is the one who's considered the best in his business.





















- A woman?
In a safari with a woman?


If a woman is ready to go to the jungle, then she's up to something, believe me.















But you told me about a woman, didn't you?











































This isn't a kid's game, Mr. Good, especially, as you say, for a woman who's been through a lot.




























That's a very good argument.





With good equipment and your help, we have to make it work.



How much do you usually charge for your job, Mr. Quatermain?










- Truth be told, yes.































Because it's better to go on the road with the person you like.


Okay.











Perhaps you've never met a woman in love.










I'll meet you at Mr. Eric Masters' office tomorrow morning.




She's a good woman.
































- Really, how do you know?


























I've never taken a woman to a safari before.





About their work, about the money they're gonna get for it.




"A woman with fire hair."

















Nice, isn't it?




















































































Pood salt is a hundred times more expensive for them.
























If we have to stop here, we'd better put it in the shadows.













Or it's better to make a stocking out of Alan.



- You keep an eye on each other.






I'm sure he led us through this swamp on purpose today. That's not true.









I'm a grown woman, John.



















































Good idea!

- Good idea!





































Okay.

























They're weird, aren't they?
















































That's good.
























You don't have anything better than that either, do you?



























- These murder stories, right?





















































- Okay.








It'd be better if there was a water well here.





And you, I see, are in a good mood.


























You didn't love Henry and you didn't treat him very well.
































































You'd better keep your weapons ready.

















- Nice shot.


















Take a deep breath, okay?



The sooner we get out of here, the better.
























Excellent, darling.









You're not working tonight, darling?






















We'll meet tonight.


Okay, be there.
































There's a woman, the other way around.













































































































Birds, my friend.


















Okay.






- Okay.







- Okay.

























- How are you, Doctor?




- Doctor.
















The woman was found in the kitchen in a pool of blood.










































All because only eight states require a tracker to be a doctor.


Doctors like McAdo would be fine.












- Tomorrow morning.






























A woman's bones are lighter and smaller... they don't fit the muscle.






















"A woman, a painted blonde, around 24, 5'5"... died around 20 May, probably a dancer."























































- Good morning.























































Is she okay?












































I need the truth.




































I'm a poor woman, but don't insult me.


No friends, no one who wants to be mentioned.
Just me... her only friend in life and death.


























































- She's at work.














Excuse me for asking, but where's our mutual friend right now?










She came to the reception on the morning of May 23rd.
















There are so many friends in this book!








Honey...

- Good evening.


































Then Grace lost her baby.















She left work with a man.


















- Have a nice day.




It's his job.



No, darling.











It's an unborn child.







- Unskilled work.










This is Dr. McAdo.
























When she didn't come back, I thought I'd found another job.




Not enough, really, to feel her perfume, but, after all.










He's probably Vivian's only friend.









- Okay.



- Good idea.

















































- Okay.





- You were asleep, darling.




































You asked her to introduce yourself to an old friend.














You may be telling the truth. Maybe not.























Who these facts condemn or justify is your job.








































Imagine you're Vivian. And Shanway's story is true.




















Let's say Shanway's telling the truth.




































































- Okay.




























He could've made a date with a woman.







It's okay.


I checked him out, they say he's not a very good lawyer.



Honey?






























Good morning.









































































































Good evening, sir. Hackley.














It's a little agitated, isn't it?








Honey, no.

- I know, my dear.






Easy, my dear.








- That's impossible, my dear.





















A 100% female.









Tonight.




- Okay.






















Okay, doc.











- Okay, okay.









- Okay.


















































That's better, Mrs. Shanway.




And good morning.

- About 6:00 p.m.








- Good morning.
- Good morning.


You know these women.






























































































It's true.










That was three days ago, tonight.

The woman was closed by a veil, and I didn't see her face.



























It was a hot night.






But if I get it without killing, the better.

















Her face turned pale, she stared at me with glass eyes, her expression was as strong as the baby's.



I've never seen such a ferocity in a woman.















A woman?






I was attracted to her ferocious spirit, but after all, she was just another woman.











Even among bandits, Tajomaru is a famous hunter for women.


Who knows what really happened to the woman who left the horse?
Well, that woman showed up in court.



And the story of Tajomaru and the women.






What story did the woman tell?































What can a poor, helpless woman like me do?


But women use their tears to fool everyone.















A man must forget bad things and believe in good things.













































That's not true!

















There was a woman in 20 yards. I heard her crying.
Behind the bush, I saw a man tied together, a woman crying and Tajomara.


Okay, then.


He went down on his knees, asking a woman for forgiveness.



















How can I, woman, say anything?



I'm gonna leave this woman at risk.




I'd rather lose her than a horse.






Women are weak in nature.










Just remember: a woman loves those who love passionately.
A man can only make a woman his own sword.





It's true.



If people don't trust each other, the earth will turn into hell.

















What about this kid's parents?
Did they enjoy it and leave the baby?



It's for the protection of children.
Think about what they've been through to give up this baby.



Dogs are better in this world.




Bandit, woman, man and you!















I have six children.






































The fragrance in the air makes you feel like it's about love, doesn't it?







A decent woman and a grizzly,
































































Listen... come tomorrow night. Okay.































































You often invited a blonde with a concave face. Really?




She's a friend of mine.










We don't know each other well.
A lot of married people don't know each other any better.























As for young women...




- You're a bad boy. - Really?







Franz, tell me, do you really love me?








































A new place, no better and no worse than anyone else.









Yeah, really!





- Really?
- Yeah, really. Go on!





























All right, monsieur.

Very good.


About 5:00 p.m., Mr. Alfred.


































One night I came back very late and went into the kitchen to pour water and the door of your room was open, and I saw... a lot.








































- See you tonight!



A decent woman.










But such a charming woman.


























Do you really live here? Yes...







You'll feel better.






It's better for you.


































We'd better break up.








What? - Swear to tell the truth. - I swear.
Have there been any other women here?
















Maybe it's better... I bought...

It's true, traffic's ruined, but I'll take care of it.













And they all say that with the woman they wanted most...





Maybe he was telling the truth.


But maybe he was telling the truth. Wait.

Imagine one of the cavalry officers telling me that he spent three nights or even six nights with the woman he really wanted. I don't really remember.




Anyway, this officer spent three nights with a woman he loved very much, and they were just crying all the time.










My dear, don't be nervous.



It's a good thing we're gonna stay... good comrades.












Oh, Alfred, it's good to be good friends.
There you go. It's better this way.
8:00 P.M.?
That's awful. All right, at least the coachman waited for me.




I'll see you at Lobheimer's tomorrow night.



You're crazy, darling.







- Good book?

















Good night, darling.















There are periods of calm when spouses live as good friends, and other periods are less peaceful.

And that's even good. Right?





That's good, because... you see...







You girls from good families, come to us clean...




You should know what kind of women we have to deal with when we're young! They're terrible.













Do you know a woman...










Really?
Emma, swear to me never to talk to a woman you're not sure about.
I know you're not looking for contact with them. But women with questionable reputation are looking for a society of decent ladies, because they're... longing for virtue.





















Such women die young.




Honey, they don't like women like that.
True love needs purity and truth.
It's true.











































It's good here, isn't it?








- Really? - I swear to you.



























































When young people love each other, there's no need to put anything in champagne... I assure you that...





































- Really?














































Inspiration is a good memory.

















































































And in the evenings, I play piano in a cafe.

We'll love each other with great simplicity.
Do you really play cafe at night?







They'll comfort each other.






- Yes. This is my friend.







"My angel, we will love each other with great simplicity."
- That's not what they say. - Really?
- Wait, Charlotte. - Okay, monsieur.






























A man and a woman.
And you think a man and a woman would have decided to leave like us if they had nothing to do with the theater? Yes.




We know everything we tell each other in advance.




















- Sit down, dear Count.

To think I saw you for the first time last night!






Sit down, my dear Count.



Okay.






















I figured that out last night.
Last night?







- Can I come tonight? - Nope.
Why delay it tonight?

Love in the morning... no.









It's hot in here, isn't it?













Morally, I need to see you tonight.
We need to talk about our souls. Okay.









I was happy to meet you, my dear Count.















Where was I last night?









And this woman...
Nope. I didn't go after the woman.














































Yeah, it's Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. It's about five o'clock in the morning.



But before history is distorted and bloated, how Hollywood observers will put their hands on it, maybe you'll want to know the facts, the whole truth. We invite you to participate.








I haven't had a job in a while.


Maybe they weren't good, maybe they were too good. All I know is they weren't for sale.











- I let her ride a friend.














































- Sorry, I didn't think it was good.






















If it's a girls' softball team, or a musical: "It's happening in the locker room." One woman's story.
You're having fun, but I'm not funny because I'm out of work.

- Any job, I don't care.














Terrible good guy, assistant director.





Maybe he was looking for a job for poor Joe Gillis.





- That's ten percent. I'm your friend.

The best things on earth were written with an empty stomach.
Once you feel a good life, you're done.


It's the best thing that can happen.



Honey, maybe you need another agent.
























It's like an old woman from Darwin's Big Hope book.





































Sorry, you lost a friend.





































Yeah, you want a list of my work?



























What a woman!













- I have good eyesight.




































































- I'll come tomorrow morning.



















Of course, I've turned to a good path.












The last path of the old chimpanzee was in the greatest seriousness, as if she had buried her only child.









































Yeah, I wanted work and money. And I wanted to get out of here as soon as possible.


Even worse, she sat next to me all the time, staring and watching. I was afraid I'd hurt her dear child.




It's better to take her out and go straight to...






Okay.












The truth was that she was afraid of the outside world, which could remind her of the past.






























- Wipe out the ashtray, darling.


- That's what I said. - Okay.















For me, yes. That's why I came here and took this job, your script.









She's fit for work in the garage.

Max, what's the best men's store in town?

















- But it's more expensive.








This room, the only place I was myself, but it was better than sleeping in a raincoat and a halo.










- The doctor recommended it.
- What doctor?
Her doctor.












Mr. Gillis, remember New Year's Eve?










On New Year's Eve, I realized how she felt about me.




















Valentino said, "The best place for tango is a cafeteria." Come on.




Really?









Okay.
























Have you thought about me having a personal life or a woman I love?












Writers without a publisher, composers without a job, young actresses who believed young people from casting.




















- Nice party.





- Sure, we're here till morning.





- Good evening, Mr. Gillis.





























- That's probably why it's good.

- Who wants truth and excitement?






























There's a doctor here.
What doctor?

























































Turn around, darling, let me wipe you out.






















I went to see a sick friend.
Nice friend of yours. Ten-carat stones.






Really?
What's the good news?










We need to put a back-up plan in there so I can get a job, too.


















- Where have you been for so long, darling?













It's okay, it's okay.

Okay.




















































And teach your friends manners.
Without me, he wouldn't have a job because there wouldn't be a Paramount.



All right, call Wilcockson.
























You don't know how beautiful Norma Desmond was when she was 17. And brave and witty. Better than today's actresses.


Working under constant stress can cause... severe damage to the human mind.





Oh, good afternoon, darling.

























































There's a lot of good scenes out there, but it's gonna be a very expensive painting.



It wouldn't be any better if it were possible.


- Okay.






























She teaches in the afternoon, and he teaches in the evening.



- Can we work nights?
Six o'clock in the morning?




- Good for you.



I'm free all nights and weekends.





They don't know each other, but they share the room so cheaply.


















- Goodbye, darling.












- Honey, are you here?








- Okay.


- Okay.
- You better go to bed, too.



















Good night, darling.









- Okay.
- What's good?


- Really?



Seriously, that's good.






Women, middle-aged, crazy and genius.







If we correct page ten while the water boils, okay?
Okay.



















- Good job.



















I advise you not to come close to me until the end of our work.

















It's my job, and I've been doing it for a long time.














A woman?
I know, it's a woman. Who is she?




































Betty Schaefer is engaged to Artie Greene, my best friend, and she loved me.







Hey! Betty, this weird woman is calling again.












I don't know what he told you, but he doesn't live with relatives, not friends, he lives with a woman.


It's true, Betty. Ask me.



You'd better come over here and see for yourself.














- No, it's gonna be okay.






































A full-time woman of age.




















You better go home.




Thank you, darling.
























I finished my job. I'm done.





Okay.



















































Heartless, motherfuckers.































- Really, Max?




Okay.














































Don't scare her too much, Doctor.



Poor little girl hasn't slept since 3:00 in the morning.
Okay, especially since Elmer's elephant.









I'd rather have him discharged.







Okay, you'll come.



- Good night, kids.
Good night, Doctor.

The book, Dr. Cameron, finished his shift.





- She's at work, too.










It's a woman.









Ask Dr. Cameron, he's the doctor.
- Doctor, how is she?



- Friend.


I don't know, Doctor.
Like I said, I'm just a friend.

Yes, Doctor.
Your robe, Doctor.












Same time, same place, doctor.





It's okay, calm down.








It's okay.





It's okay, it's okay.


You'll thank me for this in the morning.


Yes, Doctor?



I think she liked you, Doctor.
I hope she likes herself tomorrow morning.
Fill out the medical history, Doctor?






- Good night, Doctor.

Good morning, Dr. Cameron.
- Good morning, Dorothy.
Oh, Dr. Cameron.





No, Doctor.












Dr. Cameron?






Dr. Cameron?
Good evening.




















He's just a friend.

















On the doctor's recommendation.








Don't you have friends?








Hello, this is Dr. Cameron.





I'm terribly sorry, but I can't come tonight.


I'll explain it to you in the morning. I'm running late.


Okay, we'll talk about it in the morning.







Doctor, I have to take you on.



- Doctor, you're on the phone.



- Okay.



Doctor, the Cartwright girl woke up again.










Well, where are you, Doctor?







Let's leave Julie alone, okay?






- Here's a rose, Doctor.







You didn't forget, did you?









Don't be my doctor, not today.

Okay.














The evening is just beginning.
















Hey, you're a grown woman.



It's hard to live on a young doctor's salary.






- You love your job and everything that has to do with it...

Honey, this is just the beginning.
Your life and your heart are in your job.








Yes, of course, darling, but not now.









I'll talk to him tonight, but only tonight.
















As a doctor, what should have been expected.









Well, my dear, I see you have company here.


Any friend of Margot's is welcome here.





Did Margot tell you we're going east tonight?













Don't be so inconvenient, my dear.

At the pharmacy tonight?

We see each other every night.












- Dr. Cameron.





















- Yes, Doctor.














There can be no doubt about that, my dear.





Good night, Dr. Cameron.
Jeff, when I got back tonight, he told me I could go with you.
- He told me tonight.
- It's true to a certain degree.


















It could stretch for a long time, Dr. Cameron, but the time will pass and the road will end.



























Better answer that.


















- Who goes to the doctor who killed a man even if you're free?






Tonight or...





He won't be found for three days until the servants return Monday night.






































Feeling better?











































































Maybe we'll still love each other after we both pay for what we did.

































Maybe you'll feel better.





















A prescription from Jeff Cameron, a medical doctor wanted for murder.









We have the best offers in town.
We have a very good car right here, just for 875.

















That's a good name.



















See you in the morning.





















































And at the end of the issue, listen to us before 9:00 P.M., on the same wave.























- It's okay now.




























Dr. Maynard's here.




- Mr. Doctor, it's not my fault.







Actually, our friend here wasn't looking for a shadow to hide from the heat.
Look, Doctor, we're fine.
















Come on, kids, go home now.























My car's in good shape.
















































- Okay, thank you very much, sir.









































Okay.






Okay...




- We have to meet our friends...





Justice of the peace, the best cottage for the honeymoon west of Pecos.


























































- Okay. Okay.



The search for the millionaire's wife intensified after the evening report that Mrs. Lennington had undergone psychiatric treatment under the supervision of Drs. Lee Symes of San Francisco and Gottfried Berger of New York.






























Okay, if you want to listen, ask for another radio.












Even tonight.













Yeah, it's a woman.










Yeah, sure, that's good.




































And today, with the current prices and all these things, it's gonna be more expensive.










And you better take them, my friend.
Okay, we'll take it.



































It's a good Italian.

































A friend will give you a room, no questions asked.






Okay.



































Honey, there's nothing else to worry about.










































Okay.
Okay, you're right.











I'm not in love with a woman.

















I told you the truth.

































There's three of us here, me, the driver and the woman in the van.






























- How's he doing, Doctor?
- Good enough to send flowers.



Is he good enough for visitors?




I'm not gonna see a nice friend! It's just that it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the woods, and it's coming out of the wood, and it's coming out of the wood, and it's coming out of the wood, and it's coming out of the wood.









To tell the truth, the young lady was indeed a queen:







My light, mirror! Tell me the truth.


































































Tell me the truth.































































































Yeah, looks like we should really get to the point.















Well, okay...
Dear Mr Hardy, there's one more thing.























Gentlemen, I wish you a good day.













- Have a nice day.


It's a good thing we still have the money after all these taxes.



















































He's actually good, but no country wants to take him in.
















You have good laws!



















Good morning, guys!


Good morning, guys!



















- Good morning, Stanley.
- Good morning, Ollie.












He's our very, very good friend.






















I want you to know how happy I am that you're my friends.












Sit down, friends.

























Truth be told, I'm not a mechanic.





































































































Everything's fine. Okay.







Still in good condition.









Here's the man who survived the ship's crash, and he was fine.

















Oh, honey, I'm so glad.















Of course, darling.
















Guys, it's good that you're here, I need to talk to you.










































My dear, these are the remains of a good ship.









- Come on, my dear.












Good idea.
















I'll make an amazing omelet this morning.



I'm going to share my thoughts with you, friends.



- And we're friends, right?

- Of course. Then I insist that we shouldn't let a woman stand between us.































This is my friend.





Tell me, did your friend like lobsters?







Did you really think we were building a fridge?



You're great friends.
This is the best house I've ever had.






Okay.



Our old friend Dolan found an island that wasn't on the map.







Okay, I'll be right there.


































- Okay.





























Okay.
















































Okay, but we need a logo.


























If I were you, my friends, I wouldn't be so sure.





































Keep me company, my dear.








Time is eight forty o'clock.


It's a good thing they made me a radio.







































































All right, all right.


























There'll be a moment of truth for Walter tonight at ten o'clock.
At six o'clock in the morning, Walter's contraction began the hardest of a boxer's life.



There's still a lot to go on tonight.






It's important for Walter to go to mass so something doesn't go wrong tonight.





If he's not in great shape, the doctor can cancel the fight, but it doesn't bother Walter.























The fight he's going to in his friend's car can bring him closer to the world crown.



At 8:00 p.m., the locker room behind the arena began the last two hours of Walter's preparation for battle.





Walter's never seen him before, but when the fight's over, they'll know a lot about each other.






































































It's a good thing I say the words "weep" and "weep" easily.













































































These things-- they don't have a price, or maybe they're even more expensive.













Better help me get out of here. Okay.














Help me up! Okay.














Okay, okay. Get upstairs.
























I remember who I was this morning, but I've changed a few times since then.




If you had to turn into a butterfly, you'd be surprised, too, wouldn't you?



























































This is Cheshire Cat. Cheshire cats always smile. Isn't that right, piggy?

Truth is, I didn't know cats could smile at all. There's a lot you don't know, that's for sure!






















You've really become a pig!


























By the way, what happened to the baby? He's. He's turned into a piggy.






Is that better?



































If you have nothing to do, think of something better than a riddle without an answer.




You bet! You've never talked to Time, have you?

We used to be friends.

















Beautiful, isn't it?





Then you'd better be quiet.
That doesn't mean we're going to introduce you to our friends.


I'm sure you'll find a better place for yourself. Of course he will, if he's lucky.



I can do better this time.





















Who knows me better than you?





Come on, buddy, she's just a kid!















I don't have the habit of talking to myself. Seriously, you're not gonna find any smart people around here.


















- This is my friend, Cheshire Cat. - It's the King.













Calm down, it's okay. I'm not gonna hurt you.


































And the moral from here is, "A good mine in a bad game is the most important thing."






















He's my best friend.





























Gryphon didn't do it at all, did he, Griff?










It's not too nice to dance on jellyfish, is it?





















It's in vain. It's so interesting. Get up, you're standing, really, and read "It's the voice of the lazy."























Brilliant victory, isn't it? It's the same way I fought in front of Angincourt. - Let me help you take your helmet off.


























































We decided to kick each other's ass.



































We'll be with you till morning to walk hand to hand.
















Then it's better if he didn't eat as much as Morge.
He just didn't get any more. Then they're both good.

It's okay that it ends well. What's that?




Let her help us get dressed so we don't hurt each other.













































































































































I have a lot of good friends in Paris.
A lot of very good friends.



It means I don't have a job, but it doesn't sound so rude.














It's hard to run into childhood friends here.

It's weird, but here I once made a friend.




































There's better means.








Lisa and I visited friends in Juan-Le-Pen.




























We fell in love after she left.




































Good morning, Theresa.

Could be better.





When this happens, there are only two things that can help: wine and women.



















































I just wanted to discuss your work.
And I don't want to discuss my work with you.
I'm not interested in your opinion of my work.
If you say something nice, I'm not gonna feel better, not say it, all the more so.




















It's disgusting to even hear from friends.

Looks like things aren't going well.



















































Really?






Good light.














No, honey, don't come up.







By the way! What are you doing tonight?









- Eight o'clock. Okay?
























Okay.










- Good evening.

- Good evening.




























Dear lady, here's your money. I'm taking the paintings and all the good stuff.












I'm interested in your work, and I want to get to know you better.








Do they feed well downstairs? - Very good.
- And it must be very expensive.




It's not expensive at all.

I wish I had something by morning.






























- Nice, darling.





































I'd really like you to watch Jerry's work.














But I guarantee he'll be gone in four months, like that composer or that sculptor. Okay.






















And now I want to go back to my friends.













Good night, darling.









- It was wonderful, wasn't it?
- Really?


I can imagine what a job would be like.



I didn't like your behavior tonight!























You were annoying last night.


Good morning.
Good morning.


I've been working for you since this morning.















He's a very old friend of mine.

You're not wasting time, are you?












These are very good perfumes for summer.





That's very good.





They're all so good!





Oh, my darlings!











- Really?


Send them to my hotel, okay?





Okay, isn't it?





Have a nice day.
Have a nice day.














Okay.













You know the Dear Friend Cafe?


- Okay.














I feel like an abandoned child.

Tonight.

Tonight? Henri!
Yes, darling, tonight.














What happened, darling?
Can't you come tonight?


























Really?


























No work, no lessons, no money when you get home.

Is Sunday good in America?



















I don't even have many friends.











Yeah, we should, really.
Tomorrow night.



I'll be at Art School on Friday morning.



Okay.








- Good evening.
- Good evening.


























She's a kind kid who likes the way I paint.





































When my paintings are good enough to show them.





Give me a chance to make a decent exhibition in a decent place so people can see your work.

Look, you're an artist, and you're a good artist.







Okay, I'll do it.



















Maybe it's better that way.



























- A woman.



Women act like men, but they want to be seen as women.















































And they don't know each other.













There's only one problem between a man and a woman.






Trust me, Jerry, admitting to the woman "I love you" will give you more results than anything else.














- You just have to find your woman.







Jerry and I, we're so happy, aren't we, Jerry?



























There's a woman who helps me, which means a lot to me, I wouldn't want to lose her.
My job is so important!



What are you doing tonight?






Today's the best.

We'll be together tonight.





Tonight's my night.
I feel like a real woman.













































- Good evening.


















A friend of Adam's.



















































































- What's so good for me?
I'm familiar with the paper's work along and across.










I'm a very good liar.

















Get a job in a newspaper as small as yours and wait, hope and pray for something big to happen, something that I could grab to swallow all the newspapers, and then start sobering it all over the country.


But until that happens, Mr Booth, you get the best newspaper you've ever worked here.





















You can start work on Saturday.
The sooner the better.






























































I collected these things every night when I came home from matches and toothpicks.




















All right, buddy, pack up.









Evacuation of children......................................























I didn't go to any college, but I know what makes history good.
Because my job used to be tied to the papers.



Because good news doesn't make any sense.




























- It was a crash this morning.
















The best store in central Escudero.
















The best thing we could do was get through half of it.






















































- Okay.









One man, that's better than 84.























































There's a lot of work to do here.








Really?











There's a lot of work to do. It's possible that special tools will be needed.



































- Really?












I'm your friend.















































Two friends just sing a song.













































Or tonight?

There's nothing we can do until tonight.


I'll find these people, Mr. Minosa, the best.
And I'm gonna find a doctor.


- You'd better decide with me.


And the doctor is probably there.







Sheriff, doctor, engineer.







Okay.

Here's the doctor's phone.
Dr. Hilton.









































- Good morning.







- I spoke to the doctor.


















And he was a handsome boy in his uniform, wasn't he?


























I said nothing good would come of it.











































Just a friend.



















Okay.





Wake the kids up, Nellie.







Doesn't sound much like the truth.


That's how it's gonna be better read, so it's gonna stay the way it is.


















There'll be plenty of money in your register by tonight.




There's Mr. Tatum with the doctor right now.











Doctor, we can get air in 20 minutes.

- Thank you, Doctor.










Tell me, Doctor.






- Of course, Doctor.









































After all, he's just a kid.

















We had a big barbecue and I also gave a speech, a very good one.


It's a lot better than that.



































Okay.









- It's not too good.





















It's a very serious job.
















The doctor himself told me that.











You're gonna be the best contractor in this place, I bet.











But by tonight, I think it'll be all $150.














That's better.




Good morning.



























I heard you talking to other people on the radio last night.









Tell me, Mr. Federber, how would you feel about this amazing job, what's going on here?














Look, Mrs. Minosa, there's gonna be a roser in the local church tonight. ( * special form of rosary prayer)





Okay.











The best I could find in Albuquerque.
I got a job for you, kid.

And make sure she's at the church tonight.













































We've come a long way to do our job, and we'll do it.

























Go to Tatum!" - He's a friend of the family.






We're friends.



Let's see how you swim... friends.














But only by then, friends, Leo will be out, and the story will be over.









































































This afternoon, when the doctor arrives, it's best to give you another shot.

















- These are your friends.
- Friends?
I think we all have a lot of friends who don't even know about it.


A week ago, I didn't even know you even existed, and now you're my friend.
I think you're my best friend.






















You know, we don't get along very well.











There's nothing good about it.


Good money.
















- Very good.





The doctor only said that he hoped it would go the way he wanted it to go.

- It means everything's gonna be okay.








































Well, Mr Booth, I sent you the report by telegraph this morning.







































Maybe you should come back with him.

Give him good advice, Chuck.























































My old desk and my old job.

That's better.





























































Maybe after that, you're taking me somewhere, and we're gonna have a long night, huh?






It's been the fifth night since the big storm started breaking in and piercing the way to Leo.

If they keep the same pace, they can get to Leo by tomorrow night.















Do what the doctor tells you to do.



Tell him he'll live, Doctor.






















If we don't put him in the hospital tomorrow morning, he'll die.








You'll be out of here tomorrow morning.

They won't be able to reach me by tomorrow morning.



You're not gonna lie to me right now, are you, Chuck?

























We'll release Leo by tomorrow morning.







That's not good for my story.
















It would be better if we weren't late.




















Yeah, well, Mr. Nagel, I'll leave him a note to call him back to New York.











Put this thing in your mouth and take a good breath.
It's morning, isn't it?

- Friday morning.




















































Great, isn't it?


- Honey, you wouldn't want me to wear things like this.






































Really?


















































You're celebrating a new job, buddy?






Maybe the guy's gonna get you a job at the university paper.


















Okay, stay on the line.














Is that the best you could do?





















I'll take you to a hospital or a doctor.
Forget the doctor.








Now let's get to work.




































I had a good pronunciation, and I got a job as a tour guide to Empire State Building.













































Good morning.




Okay.

























When I was a kid, we were poor, sometimes we had nothing to eat.






















Okay, I'll tell you. He's dead!



























Oh, there's no doubt that rest is wonderful, but everyone has responsibilities for their work.
















I think it's best for Mr. Barnstamp to stay here tonight.
Oh, no, my dear lady.





































Good morning.















Really, I wouldn't pay, and I'd have to shut myself down.









I think he's better off.


I'm good.
















































Don't you think it's best to leave? Nope.


She better not be walking around this hill.










Good morning, Mr. Harrison.
Good morning, Mr. Adams, good morning, Mr. Palmer.














Okay.







I mean, after the baby's born.

















Nature makes it so that when a woman is in your position, the clouds become a rainbow, and the whole world is like a cradle.















Enough work for today.











Where I lived, from morning to night, I always felt the smell of exhaust gas.







Kids hanging around the dinner table.













If what you're saying is true, there must be others.




It gives you hope, doesn't it? Yes.




Tomorrow is a good day to start, don't you agree?























Where was I arguing with you? Good question.



Okay, let him live somewhere else--










And he lit up the light with the other one and said to God, "That's good."









And God said, "That's good."











He bowed like a mother over a child, standing on his knees on the sand.









Look, mister, who's the doctor in this case? That's right.




It's okay.













I took the jeep early this morning and went somewhere.




Look, the world around us is already too small to run away from each other.












Okay.

















Maybe we're the only ones left on Earth and maybe it's true that there are others besides us.



Let's not bite each other's throats,
We'll work together, live together... as friends.

























When you came here, you were just a woman.






Child.......................................





















We'd better find a dishwasher, or we'll have hands like laundry.











































Only you, of course, take the baby. Come on,


Okay?






It's okay, my good boy, we'll be on our way soon.













I'll pick something better.


























- Good morning.















































































I'll tell you the truth.





































Okay.
































- He chose a good place.








Okay.

























If they're waiting for you today, darling, you'd better walk.






































He's better off.
And everybody's better off.
Looks like it's a good day.



Why don't you go to work?
Don't you have a job?



























She has to go to work.





























- Okay.




Okay.

We'll bring your friend in a minute.











- Okay.
























I've agreed on the placement of the children... with Mr. Fuller's representative.









I'm Reverend Dr. D. S. Parkinson, pastor of this boy.

What church do you imagine, Doctor?











Okay.




























































































































































This guy likes women?



















I thought we were just trying to get to know each other.










Anything I can drink, I'm safe for the kids.

























































That's a good idea.


























































It's a great day for the best citizens of New York.





























































Robert, you love me, don't you?


















































































































































It starts early, usually... something happens between kids and parents.











Okay.
Okay.



I know this isn't the best place... but let me say a few words.




















- Okay.























Well... everything was fine at first.


















You're afraid to look down, aren't you?














Well, I mean... you go to work at 8:00 in the morning, I go at 8:30.



























It's a good deal.



- Okay.
All right, send them.









I was a good mother.























































































You get out and borrow your friend.















Looks like you and Virginia were doing okay.






























They're kids.
Why don't you write "children"?












If you'd made it on time, it'd be better.









Okay.












































Can't you see he's a good man... and he loves you?









I think we understand each other.
Really?























Okay.
































































Are the kids home?
Is Harry okay?








You'd better be around.
















Okay.




Virginia, this is Dr. Strauss.










Well, he--he said he couldn't, that-- that he would make me miserable, that would be better--




Oh, he had a fight with his boss and lost his job and got sick-- seriously sick.






























Everything proved him right-- he was losing his job all the time.













































































It's 8:00 P.M.






























































Ten good reasons.
You must have 10 good reasons to do something.

I'd really like to come in... but I can't.



Although I could if you gave me 10 good reasons.





It's true, but it's got a lot - a lot that's not so bad.














































She got a little fat in her hips, having two kids... but it's normal, it's normal.


It's too expensive.

Maybe I could explain better... if I read more or went to church.















































Doctor, Doctor, he's gonna be--











We'll move him in the morning.















Go home and take care of your children!











































I'm better now.







"Dostoevsky wanted to represent a truly good man.

"But a truly good man may seem like another idiot.




















♪ Enchanted by this woman ♪







Isn't she charming?














A woman with a bad reputation.







I'll try to find him a job.








To force your woman to marry Kaiama...














Good morning.







Very good.

You'd better be there.

















I'm funny, aren't I?














The world, the people in it, everything in it suddenly became dear to me.









I promised myself I'd be kinder and better at everything.
























































































If he refused, I could be his friend.








































I'm not talking about a woman. I meant you.












































I'm an idiot, aren't I?




















So it's true!






















I'll bring them tonight!
A million by tonight, okay?
























See you tonight.















































































I have to give him an answer tonight.





























Friends shouldn't fight.



























No one's gonna accept a woman who's been abandoned.






A woman like me?


What did you mean, "A woman like me"?










But I tried to express what I really thought of you.











You're really sick.


How can you support a woman who's used to a fancy life?

I'll find a job.
What job?
















I was hoping that a good man, honest and kind, would eventually show up.

















Are you really gonna do what you said about her?




















































You can't save a woman like that.










































































Akama, I want you to tell me the truth.




















Please, I want you to tell me the truth.






But I think it's best if you two don't get married.
I told you, didn't I?
















It's true.









What? Is that true?

















































I told you, didn't I?











Mom, this is Kameda, my old friend.






















































































He gave it back to that woman.




By the way, you'd better not visit him.
Especially on a good day.











































Good evening.



















Are you really sleeping?


I thought another woman came.

I had a dream. By another woman, you mean her?



And last night, he seemed so graceful.























No, I'm telling the truth.








Tell me the truth.





Even I don't know why, and I thought you wouldn't understand. What would you do if your beloved friend were chained into a cage and severely beaten with a stick?
Full of grief, you'd rather be beaten yourself, wouldn't you?






When someone takes a piece of candy from a sensitive kid, he gets offended and throws all the candy.








Last night, too. She said that Mr. Kayama was on the way, so she did it!





It's a stupid, sentimental woman.






























I spoke to you cruelly, didn't I?






































Is that true? Yes.
But it's true that I like her.





















































Really, I'm scared.











































































































It's hot, isn't it?






























































He was almost too good for this world.





It's okay. All I'm gonna remember is that he was so, so good.



























I'm better now. I was released ten days ago.




"Dostoevsky wanted to represent a truly good man.
"Ironically, he chose his hero as an idiot." But a truly good man may seem like another idiot.












"One look at her released Akama's contained feelings." Enchanted by this woman,





Isn't she charming?






I'll try to find him a job.



I'm funny, aren't I?






























































If he refused, I could be his friend.
















































So it's true!











I'll bring them tonight! A million by tonight, okay?















Goodbye, Mr. Kayama. See you tonight. You too, Mr. Kameda.

























































I have to give him an answer tonight.




































But I tried to express what I really thought of you. I don't care if the world's laughing at me.




You're really sick.

How can you support a woman who's used to a fancy life?

I'll find a job.









Are you really gonna do what you said about her?



























You can't save a woman like that.

















Akama, I want you to tell me the truth.






Please, I want you to tell me the truth.



















Is that true? Of course!







































I told you, didn't I?












- Stress's on top, Dr. Ronson.




Go on, Dr. Standish.


We're ready to work on the tape.

















































Okay.


You may be a brilliant physicist, Dr. Standish, but we think you're wrong somewhere.



Your calculations are a little high, Dr. Forsythe.



- All right, I'll see you in the parking lot.


















- All right, keep an eye on him.






























You're kind of a mystery man, even for your friends.



Okay.
I haven't had much work lately.





- Oh, that's good.















































It's not good for you.




Let's just say I don't like my job. And let everything go their own way.












"At the request of his friends and relatives, he was placed in a madhouse."







They had two children, and he died here in this house, in peace and peace at the age of 63.

















Peter, I think you'd better stay the night here.





























































Really?














Ten thousand greetings, darling, dear cousin.





- Dear friend.
Cousin, please meet a friend of our family, Mr. Throstle.









But anyway, the joke is the best weapon against me.



Oh, that's a great waste of money, isn't it?







Your suit is better than your skin, and your shoes are impeccable, sir.





Oh, I insist you stay with us, dear, dear cousin.




And you, Kate, darling, make sure the Admiral's room is ready.














I want to go to the theater and talk to Dr. Johnson. Everything.


You want to talk to Dr. Johnson, don't you?












You can appreciate, dear Throstle, as a good cousin. - Thomas.







- Not very well, I'm afraid.













The messenger did bring something from Aunt Caroline this morning.

































We are so happy to welcome you here, dear cousin.














































- Hélène, are you really engaged to Mr. Trust?









































Tom, dear boy, show our cousin the best places in London.








- Oh, don't worry, darling.



Jackling will fight tomorrow night.





What do you say, darling?









- How much did I lose to you, friend?








Mrs. Sidedons tonight!

Mrs. Sidedons tonight!

- Mrs. Sidedons is playing tonight.













- Tom, darling, calm down.











Good evening, Lady Anne, cousin, Mr. Trustl.


























But, Sir Joshua, the evening is just beginning.































Artists have good eyes.





















Yeah, it's true.













- Beautiful view, isn't it?













It's a good thing you wanted to know. It'll be interesting to your family as well - what I've been doing the evenings of the past few weeks.



















































- Then it's true.
You really are from the future.























We are strangers to each other, and I must seem to you...





Dear Mr. Trustl, I can understand your romance impatience.



If I understand you correctly, and I think it's the right thing to do, it's the lyric, sir, and it's the best thing to talk about after a glass of punch.







































Every morning, two maids have to carry him hot water in buckets of stairs so he can wash himself.


- Every morning.
- Does he wash every morning?




















She asked me to take you to see her and Dr. Johnson.

- I think, sir, that at least part of your conversation with Dr. Johnson would be worth listening to.



I don't want to be the target of Dr. Johnson's epigrams.


With my friend.
Dr. Johnson.





Don't be jealous of our poor wild lands, Doctor.











And for women, sir?
Women, ma'am...
Regular women should be beaten regularly like gongs.

You're blazing even against Dr. Johnson's background.


Everyone knows that Georgianna, Duchess of Devonshire, is the most beautiful woman of the 18th century, and also charmingly witty.



















Dr. Johnson, your hand.







I would advise you not to offer a young woman a hand and a heart for the rest of your life until you have lived to be 70.



You know that better than I do.








Kate and I are gonna get married and have two kids.









Oh, dear cousin Peter.














- Oh, dear Mr. Trustl.












Darling, dear Peter.









Did you deliberately avoid me all night?











Forget tonight.
Go rest. And in the morning, everything's gonna be okay.
I don't want to stay here until morning.





So you think there's no limit to your power over women?
But no woman can dance with you twice... or be around, except... they're all in your charm, aren't they?







If you really are from there.
It's four o'clock in the morning of the beautiful spring morning... and it's okay!
Four o'clock in the morning of the beautiful spring morning... and that's it...






It's better to dream than to really know about him.

























































































My dear Throstle, you could knock once in a while.

Then here you are, my dear.







It's not from the amount of drinks, my dear friend.

Dear Lady Anne.
Dear Mr. Trustl.









- One corner of him, sir, but, good enough.
















































This is Sir William Satherland, doctor and owner of the Royal Medical College.





























Sir William, you are a doctor, a man of science.













In my day, every kid heard about X-rays.






















Oh, dear cousin, I apologize for what my daughter said.

She just did what she thought was best for her sister, madam.






























I kept saying it to myself every night... and every morning I thought, "Just give me one more day."

























































Really, it's okay.


























Maybe I did have a nervous disorder.





































































































































...the body of a white woman.


















I was at work.

















































Really?



















































He's a friend of this little girl.




Okay, Gobbini.

















Seven kids...



















I'd rather not mind, wouldn't I?























































































- Nice shot.














































Him and Gordy Miller. It's early this morning.
Jim, you're a good officer.
One of the best.
















What kind of work is this?


Yeah, that's the job.





It's the same job as everyone else.



Maybe you think that makes you a good cop.

















Dad said he had to take the detainee out of your hands last night.













- The police need friends.
Friends...
The cops don't have any friends.






I'm the only job I know how to do.


I think it's best if you leave here for a couple of days.
































A very good man.

















Come on, kids, go to your room.


Excuse me, Mrs. Brent. But it's his job to ask questions.











Get the kids out of here.

















































You watch the road.




























































































































































What's your friend's name?




















Rest at the fireplace and continue your search in the morning.























He came back tonight.






























Okay.







































He's our friend.






It's gonna be okay.








































































































Forgive him as you forgive your other children who have sinned.




























Or are you afraid to know the truth?






















Okay. I won't worry.




In your job, you probably have to be tough, don't you?

















































Is she really good, Auntie?




































Good evening, ladies!
Good evening!

Good evening.







Very good.

He will certainly be a good spouse for Shizu.
























I've been looking for the best...
The women of your dreams don't exist.






She has good taste.





































Poor kid!

















Have a nice evening.
Tell me, son... isn't your mom pretty?

Good evening.


The woman I've been waiting for is so much like her.






Once a woman has married, she cannot leave her husband's family without their consent.






















Are you feeling any better?



That's a good idea.


- Thank you, Doctor.



















Your aunt came by this morning.

Is that true?



I'd really like her to marry a good man.








Good evening.

Good evening.

Good evening.

































He's a good man.


But I don't think you can find the best.































Thinking about my sister is very good, but you can't come to me thinking I'm soulless.






It's true, I'm crazy about her.



































































Just like a kid!
Don't forget that it's gonna be time for you to have a baby... can I ask you where it's gonna come from?




















Tell me the truth.

































Really?





















Is that true?


















You're not the kind of woman who's gonna be satisfied with life in four walls.

















It's incredible to us, isn't it, dear friend?






















































I confessed to Sinnosuke on the wedding night.











For your sake, dear sister, I'm ready to live my life in the shadows.













It's better this way.





Okay!
It's better this way.













If she knew you'd decided to have a baby, I'm sure she'd be very happy.
Okay, I'm going to work.

































I'd say there's a baby crying in the garden.












Since I no longer intend to marry, I would ask you to raise this child.





I had a wonderful child one full moon evening...




Dear friend, play us something to celebrate his appearance.

















































And you played me just as well.


It's been 20 years since we've known each other, and I'm still wondering what I admire more:







I'll tell you something very sincere if you had less talent I'd still be your friend.





Madame Maria Frome is considerate and punctual, and playing so well, thank you.


























- While there's an undeniable truth here.














- No, but he's the father of four children, and that's his mistake.











- Ah! Hello, my friend.

- Not very well.





Remember the day we got married and don't tell me it's the same woman.






But I don't drink three liters of wine a day. I don't yell from morning to night. I don't beat dishes.

















Trying to make a woman realize she's down...


A little. - Okay, look, you go to bed and see it in your bed.

















































I'll pray for you tonight and don't ask me to pray for her.
- Is that a good poison?


- In that case, he's good.
Very, very good.



















- Okay, I'll see you tomorrow.












We'll always love each other.










We'll always love each other.






Let's love each other, let's be happy.



We'll always love each other.
















- Of course! Act like a street girl! - Since men like you, my friend, are full of...























































- Leave us alone, my dear.


- Like all limited children, she believes everything she's told.





















- When the evening comes, it's awful.




I've been naively thinking you've been doing well these last few days.

I feel awful when she sees me. - I wonder if it wouldn't be better to shoot myself in the head.









Because, like his friends and clients, we can't wait to celebrate his 100th acquittal.





- You have a nice voice, darling. Unlike the hard-core killers, I'm interested in random killers.
































I don't know the train schedule, but if I leave early in the morning, I'll be back by lunchtime.
- Since I have, in principle, your consent, dear Master, can I ask you what amount I owe you to protect me?









































I'll sign the letter as soon as it's ready, and please send it tonight.








- Okay.
- Wouldn't it be better to poison her?

- Yeah, that's the best.








- Exactly. - And yet, you just said the knife was the best of all.






Wouldn't it be better if I killed her differently?

- Okay.

- Okay. I just wanted to know what I got right.









- Well, okay, I'll take it off.
- Okay. - Even though you didn't think ahead of time, that idea was on your mind.
















- Undefined. Three days ago, I met you on the radio last night.










- Yeah, it's better for you and her.












Maybe now it's known, but the morning I left, no one knew.



































- Okay.





Nope. That would be good, wouldn't it?



- So, last night, she was drunk.
















- Last night.
- That's good, that's good.


Or better yet, self-defense.


































- Yes, sir. - Okay, thanks.

- Hello, my dear colleague and friend.





The interview you gave on the radio last night made the worst impression, I won't hide it from you.






I'll tell you. President Oriol and I met this morning, and we don't agree with the idea of you dividing the killers into hard-core and random ones, which could cause public anxiety.











This isn't the D.A. talking to you here. This man is a friend who wonders at your exceptional and sometimes very strange eloquence, which can encourage a crime.


I heard it last night at the opera, a lady was joking.























I promise you that. But I was in a good mood, we were celebrating...













- If a man or woman victim of a crime comes to you tomorrow and asks for your help. What are you gonna do?



































It's a good idea to close the window so you don't hear you talking bullshit.


Find yourself some wine, it'll be better for you, fool.


I'll be better.

Let's work better in the field than wear white gloves.










- I don't think so, but it's not much better.

- That's not a good sign.







- Good evening, Mr. Cure.




- It's true, I noticed.





























































Drink, my poor friend, drink.



























- It's okay.





- There were a lot of very good articles in the papers about you.
- What do you mean, "very good"?











- Visitors from morning to evening!






- Well, okay.

































Yesterday, I received a report from the Evre gendarmerie on the night of the crime.





"Dr. Fromange noted that the victim had been stabbed in the abdomen and had died 20 minutes earlier."


So you killed her on the 11th night?



- By saying you killed your wife the night before. But you actually killed her four hours later.











If I hadn't lied and said, "I want to kill her tonight."














- But I don't see a better way to get us out of this.





And that would be true. Because between you and me, I can say that now...




































































It's a good thing this time, Your Honor, the punishment preceded the crime.

















That's why I just told you it's preposterous to accuse me of doing your job.












- Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?









- Okay, I have a fabric store at your service.


















- Your Honor, I find this woman's words monstrous.




















- Because you and I thought it was a good idea.






































It's not a question whether a woman can or can't.









- And women, can we? - Of course not!

















- Okay.


















- Aren't you ashamed that you killed this woman?






































Honey.

















Isn't that great?



















Oh, that's good, that's right! - Another one?







It's true, really, otherwise I wouldn't have said it.

















Fine, darling.





I brought some outfits with me to meet your lovely friends.





I don't think I'm in the best shape I've ever seen.












Okay.




And when he comes back, I'm crying on his lap like a baby.


























































































Thank you, darling.




Honey, would you get my blue halatika?



- Yeah, see you tonight.
Honey, Blanche and I are going to dinner at Galatua and then to the night show while you play.



Honey, I'll try to borrow Blanche until you're done.











Honey, listen, tell her something nice about what she looks like.
And don't tell me we're expecting a baby - I didn't say.
Try to understand her and be nice to her, darling.




Okay?



Honey, let's not just let her wake up first.





















Okay, fine.





















































As far as I'm concerned, there's gonna be a lot of cards here tonight that we ladies aren't invited to. Right.







- Okay. Great.





















Most women without outsiders know what they look like.










I can't imagine a woman who can cast a spell on you.


To interest you, a woman would have to... put the cards on the table.
























Okay, cards on the table.

After all, the woman's charm itself is half deception, illusion.
But as far as important things are concerned, I'm always telling the truth.









































Under the Napoleon Code, a husband is obliged to take an interest in his wife's affairs. Especially if she's expecting a baby.

Stella's expecting a baby?
I didn't know she was having a baby.

Oh, my star! It's great to have a baby!






















I really have to go.


















Good evening.















I don't know. - Oh, good evening.























Really?





























































































































My sister's expecting a baby!


We gotta get him out of here. You can't play poker in front of women.







Well, do you feel better?





You can't play poker with women.



Honey!










I want my woman downstairs!

You beat up a woman and then you ask her to come back!













They're crazy about each other.




























































































































Do you use expensive?







It's true.









Honey, there was quite a lot of gossip... in Oriola.



























































Honey... do you want it?





Really?






Good evening, ma'am.










I don't drink at work.
















You like these long rainy nights in New Orleans when an hour is not just an hour, but a piece of eternity falling into our hands. And who knows what we're gonna do with him?

























I'm afraid you didn't have much fun tonight, Blanche.
I ruined your evening.


















But darling, and you and I know that in our world, a lonely girl has a duty to contain her feelings, or she will die.





No, darling.


We've been so tense and serious all night, even though we've been looking forward to it.














What a nice jacket.







- Really?




Really? It's the best gift I've ever received.

















My weight isn't the best topic to talk about.


















Where's Stanley and Stella tonight?


Not a good idea.

Are you and Stanley old friends?


















- Yes, darling?


































He's been kicked out of every job.






Crying as lost children cry.



















You need each other.































Honey.


The city is small, and gradually they've learned the truth.

































I don't know, but at least he found out the truth.








How nice after a hot bath.

Really?



































That's all you hear from you and your sister from morning to evening.























Honey, it's gonna be okay after she leaves and you give birth to a baby.






























































Wasn't everything okay before she got here, all arrogant, thinking I was some kind of monkey?
































- Isn't she better? - Why?






































You're at work this afternoon.







I want to get a better look at you.





I'm not telling them the truth, I'm telling them what's supposed to be the truth. And if it's a sin, let them punish me, let them!



I knew you weren't 16. But I was an idiot and I believed you were a good woman!























"The moral qualities of this woman prevent her from being a teacher."












I thought you were an honest woman.








A woman screams in the street...



I lived in a house where dying women remembered their dead husbands in bad words.








































Oh, no, honey, don't go.


It's the best way to stop dizziness in the world.








And the baby?







Anything good?










































You're gonna have an oil magnate, and I'm gonna have a baby.






A trained and intelligent woman like me can enrich a man's life.




It's weird that they call me a needy woman when I have all the treasures of the world in my heart.
And I think I'm a very, very rich woman.




In front of you and your friend, Mr. Mitchell.









Our character and upbringing are completely incompatible. So goodbye, my friend. And let there be no hostility between us."























































































- Yes, darling.




Really? I'm not sure I washed it.





Not yet, darling.







You look amazing, really.














He's from the French market, darling. That doesn't mean he's clean.





















He's got a woman with him.






































Your shirt, Doctor?


















































Hello, Doctor. How you doing?



















Quite, Dr. Henderson.














Good night, Dr. Henderson.


It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it'







What would you do if she couldn't talk to you every night?



















That's not so good anymore.















Okay, we'll wait for him together.


























He arrived this morning from London.




























































I killed him this morning.















How do people usually blackmail each other?






What happened this morning?






























She won't be here till morning.






The only person I see is Dr. Henderson.












Early in the morning.













Really?






I'll be a good husband, Jeanette.
Better than he was.













He's better now.










Really.



I'm sure you won't let me, my dear.

















Good evening.



George, honey, this is Dr. Henderson.







As you can see, the doctor is just a name, as they say, a pseudonym?

The doctor doesn't drink.


Jeanette, darling?




Tell me, my dear, can I borrow another dictionary from you?











Let's get to work, get to work.

My dear, the dictionary.

Next time, he'll be at work.



























Thank you, Doctor.




There's gonna be hard work at the lake for both of us.







Your husband had good taste.

































It's a good thing I haven't gone to bed yet.



























You gonna take care of him in the morning?
All right, Janet.










Okay.









Good morning.
Good morning.










































I know Dr. Henderson called me.







Good for you, sir.






Dr. Henderson is a local local broadcaster.















All right, Mr Preston.










Because you're an immoral, little woman.









Truth is, I'd be more upset about losing my help.




















He's been there all morning.







What have you been doing all morning?































But you're not sure, are you?






It's a lovely morning.
The ferocious one was never so good.




How's your job, Chris?






What a lovely morning.



















Good morning.






























Good morning.




































I'll ask Dr. Henderson to keep a copy of it for you.
Dr. Henderson gets the London papers?





And please don't bother Dr. Henderson.










Good morning.



























































Good morning.



This morning, I found the answer in the papers.











































You're better in the morning, my dear.
Hello, Doctor, come in.






Now if you'll excuse me, Doctor...

Doctor, I don't want to sound rude...

Okay.



Unfortunately, it's not the best brand.











Okay.







Is that how you study all your friends?

Interesting diagnosis, Doctor.



Doctor, to what do we owe this honor?
Good morning, I've come to return the dictionary.
My dear, you look radiant!

The morning on the peatnuts is beautiful.







I wanted a good morning, darling.








Not the best copy.













Very good. Here.


















For the sake of all the saints, Jeanette, fighting each other is crazy?
Henderson may know the truth, but he can't prove it.


Okay, George.


Good evening.






Where's my dear wife?
Don't tell me you're tired of each other.







But give me a puppy friend,










Women.



























I told your young friend about women.



Once we get to the truth, they get soft with us.





You're acting like a kid.



It's true.

I really don't know where.






















You can have any man you want. Isn't that right, Janet?






This job has been good for you.












I figured it out tonight.





You don't know how to lose, my dear.



















































I talked to him every night.

I wouldn't be able to hold a woman or child in the hands of a man if I couldn't bring them back to life.




Good evening, my dear.
Doctor...






It's part of my job.




I'm in a mooring hole, Doctor.













Could you do that right in the morning? For me.
Okay.


















Good night, my dear.









You really think I'm gonna believe that?































A decent woman shouldn't say things like that, should she?
Chris didn't say that, did she?
Well, I'm not a decent woman.














Good morning, Mrs. Buntin.






So what have you got, Dr. Henderson?

























It wouldn't do you any credit, Doctor.


She's right, Doctor, it's none of your business.
My dear sir.




Did my wife send for you, Doctor?



















Doctor, I broke the Jeep.

My dear Mr Preston, the Jeep was insured.




Really.









He entered a lonely house in the Yorkshire marshes and has successfully pretended to be the husband of a talented and beautiful woman.




Beautiful flight of fantasy, Doctor.





Since this is the morning of the question.









Doctor.
Good morning, my dear.
Good morning, George.



Let's not talk about it, my dear.
Last night, he ran off without even getting dressed before I could stop him.








Early in the morning.







I saw her that first night.






Doctor, you have to excuse me.

Of course, my dear, it's such a shock for you and you don't have to turn yourself around.















If there's anything I can do, my dear, you'll definitely call me, won't you?




Really?




























It's turning us against each other.





You get what you deserve, really.

































All right, do as you like.





Henderson was right about the Fierce, I really...









That's a good decision.





Doctor, I was just calling you.








I think I'd better...






























































Look, a proven way to convince a woman to say a few gentle words.



That's good...









What an amazing, exciting woman you are!


Honey, why don't you sit here.


It'll make you feel better. Okay.
Sit down, darling.















Ricky, honey, you know better than right now, you only look when you're wearing a tuxedo.


















Well, honey, you said you wanted to go...



















Great, if you want to, and I hope you have a nice quiet evening at home.



We're not gonna dance with each other, smartass.





That's really funny!


















I was just trying to pretend better while my husbands were here.





There's no place left for millions of unmarried women to look for.




















And there are no women around to ban all this.
Do you think they really have someone to go with?







No, that's not a good idea.


















It's a good thing you remembered her.


Wow, seven kids.



























Yeah, I'm glad to hear from you again, sweetheart.






























































It's time for him to go to bed. He has an early rehearsal tomorrow morning.



He's right, right. I have to go to rehearsal in the morning.








I really can't.














































Damn it, it's true Ethel.






























You two bastards were going to the club with other women!


Is that true?











Good evening, sir.







Very good.












































But you're not a kid anymore. You need a male society.





- Good evening. Good evening, sir.




- Good evening, Michelle.

- Okay, where were we?










Hi, honey, how are you?




Good evening, good evening.







- Good evening, Irene.
- Good evening. - He looks good, doesn't he? Yes.

























- Hello, darling.


- Okay.


Isn't he very handsome?





















































Yvonne, darling, it would be better if you changed the subject.





I'm gonna go see what's going on with the baby. May I?












- You're not a kid anymore.










Of course it's good for a kid his age to go to school.















The baby's hurt!
















Doctor.


It's gonna be okay.
I'm so sorry, ma'am. It happens to children for all sorts of reasons... for negligence.













But morphine, such a little kid, isn't it dangerous? No, especially since it's not morphine.

















The doctor at this hospital, he's a friend of mine... he thought Michelle did it on purpose. On purpose? What do you mean, on purpose?



Michelle said something that, as a friend, he felt it was his duty to convey to me, so that I could think of the best way...
- A friend of mine said that children are... too sensitive and, if anything, capable of anything.


The baby's all right now.









It's all right now, but don't move. Please stay still.

I'm gonna hang out with the baby, and you're gonna get some rest.









































Yes, very good, Chesira.


How are you feeling? It's better now.





Don't insist. I'm fine. I'm coming to my senses.












No, call the office tomorrow morning.






- Sleep is the best cure. Yes, yes, my love.








Can't you do it tonight?







Have a nice day.
- Irene, darling. - I want to know?














- I understand you, darling.























Is it not clear that the child's first impression of peace... is the fear of bombing during the war?
Why do kids have to pay for everything?

Think about why... a child who doesn't have enough money to pay for medical care has to die.
I read about it in the paper today. The editor... requested the help of a mother with four children.

They barely have enough money to buy medicine... very expensive. This new American-made drug.
It's likely that this child's life depends on the money... that needs to be spent on medicine.

How do you do that? Do you want to go right now?



- Very good.

















The two of us are desperate. Let's try to help each other.
















- It's you, sir, good morning.








Okay, I'll see you later. Good luck.




- Anything for me? - Yes, yes, Doctor.






















Irene, honey, listen to me.








Take it, it's a good book.


The baby's already home. Is he okay?






- You're happy, aren't you? - Yeah, good news.













He's good.


Irene is a smart woman. We shouldn't blame her.



- Okay, thanks. - Bruno's here, you see.





Can I get you a glass of wine? - Look how good we are.



If you'll excuse me, I'll introduce you to our good friends.

Our consultant. Another dear friend of mine.




Okay, now shut up, let Hijello sing.


All right, I'm on my way.



- It's a miracle. Very good.



He's a very good rootist.





Thank you all, friends.
However, I thought the baby was a little skinny.
Right. This kid used to be more fat.










In block seven, for example, there are apartments where 16 people sleep in the room. And in the other apartments, they sleep five, eight, each at a friend's.

There'd be a job for everyone.










Okay, how beautiful you are.









Okay. And now you.













She's beautiful, isn't she? And this beautiful child wanted to get rid of his mother.




- She's beautiful, isn't she?
- Yes, very beautiful. - How many kids do you have?






- Do you like kids?


You have beautiful children.










- My good girl, you're beautiful!











I found a job collecting wheat near Corporal.





He's better than a piece of bread. I'm the crazy one. You don't love me anymore?

They're not like kids.
They demand submission... and then maybe they'll connect themselves to the same woman.


- What about the kids? - Kids aren't like that.
I love kids.
And besides, children, it's God's fishing.





















Okay, very good.









There's no way I'm gonna try not to forget all this... darling. You have to do it.


- I need to talk to you. - I met a woman... she has six children. - What happened?


She needs to get a job, any job.

Okay, I'll find it. It's more about what you want.





We met so often, Irene, darling, you wanted... just to help her?



She has her own dignity, she's full of life and a great desire to find a job.
But she's got a problem with her regular job.
And here I am, with my nordic temperament, someone, and you know it. Help them, get her a job if you can.






- Okay, okay. We were a little late for lunch, there were things we should've done.

Please be comfortable. Get out of here, kids out.




Look, I got you a job at the factory, we have to start on Wednesday.
- Really? Wednesday? - Yes.
Ooh, the evil ring of fate. How unfair it is now that I've found a job,













But you're gonna lose your job.































If you don't want a scandal to happen tonight.












So, a few human lives give a lot of others a chance to get a new, better life.
What I saw and felt in this job scares me. I get it. It's like a sentence, a terrible punishment.






What could you have seen in this job?







Maybe that would be true if we could all understand that... work is not only a duty, but also a punishment.















































This lady needs a doctor. Yeah, it's for one woman, she's very sick.





- Okay. I want to stay at my house.


Oh, no, Doctor, she's so against it.




















- Okay, tell them to bring... señorita two boiled eggs, coffee and milk and a bun.





























- It's better if you calm down.
























































Me. Very good.




"A TATIN WOMAN WILL HELP THE BACKGROUND PARTICIPATER IN THE TRANSTTER"
- Dear Doctor.









This morning I was told that, as a result of the tragic death of her son, as she herself said, "has become mentally unstable".




Definitely that since she left, he didn't know anything about her until that morning, as he read about everything in the paper.

Commissioner, I had an idea I offered him this morning.




















Come on, Chesira, don't act like a child.














- The doctor wants to see you, come with me.







































- Very good, thank you.














It's our daily struggle. No, Father, I'm an ignorant woman... and embarrassed.


































The morning incident with that poor woman who tried to commit suicide...
That's a very unpleasant fact. Even though we take every precaution... it's impossible to predict the reaction of a woman who's had an obsession with an obsession.

You're a very brave woman.















- Very good. - Sit down. I'm here to talk about this lady's case, Mr. Hirard, who was placed in a psychiatric hospital, remember?




Okay, I'll get to know these documents. Anyway, I'd like to meet... and talk to the lady herself, to the relatives, to all the relatives, to the attending doctor, and to all the people who were with her after her son died.

I think all these meetings should be held directly at the clinic. It would be, you could say, more delicate... and we would have prevented another scandal. I think it'd be better that way.















I, alone, have to analyse this woman's behavior... and indeed, from my point of view, her behavior goes beyond normality.




















Okay, why don't you tell me what your feelings are, what your motives are?























- Of course. Miss Hianne? - Yes, Doctor.

Dear Judge.










Poor woman!



















































But the wedding in Mexico City would have been even better.































Are you feeling better, Mom?







































































Where's the bride? - Good evening, Raquel.
















































Okay, Mom.




















You're acting like a kid.




When is the baby due?

-...to see Dr. Martinez.
- Yes, sir. He's one of the best.












Goodbye, darling.













Is it true we don't touch until the bus's full?







- Okay, Mr. Eladio.




















Despite my hopelessness, the governor is a friend of mine, and the president was studying with a friend of my friend.
Oh, that's good.


























































Okay, come on.











Sylvester, come out and bring the kids with you.
And call one of the women to help with Felicia.


I need two women.















































































I have many godfathers.





Doesn't he look a lot like his father?










































We're gonna get the bus out with my friend's help.






































Okay, on the left, that's over there.























































Are they expensive?

- There's no better business than a chicken farm.


























Good morning.
Good morning. Look at him spinning like a caterpillar.














Wake up, darling, wake up...













I wish you all the best, Mother.
Thank you, darling.



..get up, dear..................................... It's Sylvester


What a lovely morning.

















- My darling.




My best wishes.







Goodbye, Mrs. Sixsta.










I'm a prick enough to stab anyone who's bothering you, darling.




















Look to see a worthy example of a mirror that every good son has to look at.



If I hadn't been attached and respected to where I am, my dear cripple...

San Marcos is famous for beautiful women.
San Marcos is famous for beautiful women.

The woman from San Marcos is my life.










The woman from San Marcos is my life, the woman from San Marcos is my love


I'll fix it, my friends are coming.






You've seen the more handsome eyes of the beloved woman San Marcos, the beautiful woman of San Marcos.




Not only are San Marcos women beautiful and beautiful.
Not only are San Marcos women beautiful and beautiful.










Listen, my friend.























To a friend of mine.




































What kind of woman would tolerate so much?









You have a right to be angry, darling.





















Oliverio is one of the best drivers in the county.




We travel with the kids and...







Life is like the drawers of a water wheel... my dear Mr. Nemesio.






































































A little better.






















Why the left hand if she just said she was better?




























Friends


















That's what I'm waiting for, my friend.
Goodbye, friend.











Life's business, friend.




It happened very quickly, man.








Be brave, my friend.











Yes, darling.

























They left this morning.

































What's so good about being a regular spy, monsieur?



































A thousand apologies, but a simple touch of your hand is more valuable than all the treasures of the world.





















Athos, big Porthos, Aramis... all the women were fought by him... I loved him!
D'Artagnan... the best swordsman in all of Europe!




















































- So you're their children... - Yes, Monsieur Porthos.



















- You're very kind, monsieur. I've seen the best swordsman in France, and you're already with them. Not at all.





Not now, darling.



Your dads have been raised to be children!









How nice to see old friends, Cabo.







































- To our friend Athos!


































You're gonna love it! Very well, gentlemen, shall we go to the horses?
The question is, D'Artagnan, what do we do with the girl? Obviously, dear friend, to look after her.









- Still better than usual.

Good morning, monsieur.
- Good morning, madam. - Good morning, Mademoiselle.
Good morning, Claire!














































Okay, madam.









But Her Majesty gets angry when he sees how you treat her friends. Guards!




It's like a woman's heart isn't constant! To me, every moment is like a jewel in my heart.


















- Your Highness has good taste.
















Call Dr. Fernand!









Better get home. It's an order.









- Good morning, Claire!






























- That's better.













You'll be executed one at a time every morning.
One tomorrow. The next morning, the second. Then the last one.




Goodbye, my friends. I believe in Heaven, so we'll meet again.






































He let three men and a woman go.
- You said three men and a woman? - Yes, Captain.













































- Isn't it premature, my friend?

- It's a woman's job, monsieur. With regard to food, I am an expert.
























- Well, darling, we have to go.








And Countess Claudine! D'Artagnan! Honey!





No, darling. Even the Queen trusted her.



My friends! My wife!
The truth is by name only.




- Yeah, it's true.
























Okay.

























Florette! Oh, monsieur, these girls hide from work every time!


























Too pretty to work in a tavern.














Okay, but remember to be there by midnight. By midnight?






































I'm already losing count. - Okay.













- Goodbye, darling!










- Much better than in the morning.

I hope we go to Paris tomorrow morning.
- Really?

















That's a great trick, darling, bringing me these people.


































































Well, it's much better than if raw fish fed on us.


















Ignore my friend, he's young and stupid.





Wouldn't you rather be on chicken?















Don't mind my friend, he's got speech problems sometimes.
Really?












- I have a very nice friend for you.




























Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the "Thai Kingdom" show.








My friend stopped me and said, "I don't want to eat for three days.





- Did you take a bath this morning?


















































Oh, it's better than nothing.
- Maybe Dr. Zabor can help.
- Dr. Zabor? Yes.










































































To the castle where Dr. Zabor lives and works.















- Good morning, Chula. - Good morning.
Tell Dr. Zabor I'm here and I brought two white guests.












Doctor's probably busy, except that if it's not, it's no better.





- The doctor's gonna help us. - Isn't that right? - Yes.
Dr. Zabor is the smartest man.


Good morning. I'm Dr. Zabor.



Doctor, I'd like you to meet my friends.












- Dr. Zabor?











- Dr. Zabor?

You're wandering around scaring little kids, aren't you?


He thinks you're the guy who bites kids in the neck.

Doctor, my friends fell off the plane and landed on the island.



- Thank you, Doctor.



















Please, Dr. Zabor...
I'll be in the lab, Doctor.
Why are you so cold to me, my dear? You know I love you.


Why don't you accept my love? Please, Doctor...






















Ignore my friend, he only understands one-sided words.

What kind of experiments are you conducting, Doctor?


























What's up, Ramona? Do you like our friends?





That's a good girl!
Now get out! Come on! That's a good girl!
Meet my friends.


Good girl.









Okay, Doctor. Come on, Ramona.
Here's a good girl, go to your cage.
To a good little girl. - Okay, Pepe...







My friends are from America.













- Thank you, too, Doctor.







And the sooner the better.



- Oh, my God, honey, what is it?












I didn't like the doctor looking at you a couple of times today.

I think the doctor didn't like the way you looked at me a couple of times today.





You can always walk me home tonight.
I think that's all I have left until I think of something better.




















































For Chief Rakos, it is an honor that the great doctor visited his humble home.
And how's the scientific work going?
I hope so, okay?

Progress is quite satisfactory. Okay.












Okay, that's a very good idea.







But darling, my father will probably want us to get married here, under all the laws of the tribe.









- Really?
- Cheers, my good doctor!













Okay...












- Good morning, Chula.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Sorry I'm late, Doctor.
- You're just in time, darling.
I got up late myself this morning.



- What did you say, doctor?

I thought... nothing, my dear.
Good morning, Ramona.

























- Okay.



Okay. You'll never find Pepe's house on your own.

Okay.

Good morning, everyone!


Hello, hello, good morning! - Good morning.

- Good morning. How are you doing, my little anthropoid?








Why don't you take our guest with you to the village? To see your friend, Duke.
Okay, Doctor.

Okay, Chula. Very good.




You don't have to be afraid of her, she's just a kid.
Yeah, Elephant's kid. Hey, look!
Funny things grow up here on trees, don't they?

Really, what Duke was wearing!




















Okay.


Let's go back to Dr. Zabor.

- Okay. - Come on.















- Doctor, Duke...

Next step in my experiments, darling.









Do Pepe have any good news for our friend Duke?



- Sammy, we'd better get back to the village.


I'll be happy to go with you, darling. Come on.




Come on, darling.




Oh, good, yeah. Three words, three words.





























Little Ramona, the big Ramona, the monkey, the gorilla, the jungle, the girls, the crazy doctors...




















I'm sure he's safe, darling.





We have to get this doctor to turn you back!
















No, my dear.




We'll find you a nice apartment in the zoo... you can come visit anytime you want.





















You're here, aren't you, Duke?






























It was Duke Dr. Zabor who turned into a gorilla, not Ramona.
Duke, is that really you?

We'll find a doctor!


A very touching scene, my dear.
- Step aside, my dear.






























- Really?

- Hot job, huh?









You'd better make someone laugh this time, or you're going to get unemployment benefits.
Dr. Zabor!











- Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.












Kids!











Okay.




Bye, teacher, we'll bring our presents tonight.
Bye, kids.





The kids were everywhere.

Good morning, darling.
Good morning, Walter.


























You're the most unorganized woman I've ever known.



Okay.

I came looking for a job yesterday.
Oh, come on, darling.


I think you're doing a lot of extra work.



Good morning, Ruthie.

Good morning, Ruth.










I'm not a kid.
Look who's not a kid!
Many girls my age are already married and have children.



Okay.
Then I guess you can get to work?





Ruth, darling.






We had such a beautiful evening planned.


Just like a baby.




















Don't you think that's too much for a woman her age?










Beautiful, isn't it?









It's gonna be okay, thanks.






























Good boy.















Goodbye, darling.























It's better to go inside and start.









That's good.








Okay.










Okay, I got a cedar closet upstairs.














Well, okay.

Later tonight?





I think work needs to be sorted out now.


Are you unhappy with my work?









You see, I'm trying really hard to do my job well.









Nothing ever bothered you and you didn't discuss your problems with your friends?
I don't have any friends.
The fact that you work for me doesn't prevent us from being friends.



I'm... I'm gonna clean up your house, do my job, and I'm gonna forget until you have a new job, whatever it is.



You need a job, and I need an assistant.



But then it won't be a job anymore.

Same job as any other job.
Most people hired me once... at best for two.




It's really none of my business.





I think I'd better get to work.














Nothing, darling!




































It's a woman's job.

I think men have better ways to live.



















But it's true, isn't it?

Let's put off the job.
Let's put off the job!


They had a job to do, but I wasn't allowed to...


You'd better go.







Trying to explain that they're doing this for my own good, that I wasn't good.



It's okay.



I really think you should go now.



Where did you come from... when you came here this morning?




Sometimes... when the morning comes,
I'm telling myself... remember to come back here tonight, this is where you live,


Okay, don't worry.
















Please don't call the doctors here, they won't understand.

































You know what went wrong this morning?














I really didn't laugh.







Okay.















Then I'll ask him if he laughed at me this morning.

















Howard, I... would have been better if Mr Armstrong hadn't found you here when he got back.











I have nowhere else to go, and I feel so good here.










You're gonna tell him how much I need this room, right?




























































































I really didn't want to.

















































Be quiet if you don't want to hurt the kids.

I'll let the kids in because they can go for help, but you better be quiet.


They're just kids.









Come on, kids!




























Hey, are you Mrs. Gordon's friend?

You'd better go, I've got work to do.




















I'll see you at the party tonight.












































But now I really want things to be different.

It was all my fault... but now it's really gonna change... because now we understand each other, right?
















I could never afford a rent, so I did as well as I could.

































We'd better let him in.


























Oh... he ran away this morning.






























Okay.






Okay.


























































I guess I'd better get in touch with Joe in the car.




He's not very well...









You'll check it out, won't you?


It's okay, Mrs. Gordon.













Okay, I think Joe and I will take care of it.





You'd better lock yourself in.



Okay, but what about you?















But it'd be better if it was a gav-gaw-gaw-gaw...









- No, she came back tonight.



- Oh, good show.

















- Oh, I just thought it was a good place to take a break.
- Oh, good.















































- We're here, darling. It's Ridgefields.











- Very good, thank you, Will.






Although I'll drink it tonight in your honor.














- Of course I'll come tonight.
- Oh, my God, what's gonna happen tonight?


- Very well, thank you, Miss Susan.






































How are you, darling?












- Oh, darling, thank you very much.

We really liked it, didn't we?

- Okay.












- No, thank you, darling.







































- You're a little displeased with all this, aren't you, darling?











Actually, I've been thinking about it. I could talk to him about it tonight.





- Honey, come downstairs and have another whiskey then go and tell him everything you feel.



















































- Yeah, he's pretty good.






Much better than 14 hours, for example.







Good evening, Joe.
- Good evening, JR.



Good evening, Mike.
- Good evening, JR.


















































- Nice landing.
- Good morning, Fletcher.
- Good morning.




- Good luck, darling!

















Goodbye, Tony. It's a good thing you're family.



- Okay.







- I'm asking because if there's nothing specific on your mind, there's always a job at Ridgefields for you.









Want a drink, darling?




















Okay.














That's my baby.









Hello, darling.



No, really.






- You'll spend a good quiet weekend in Shoram.




























- No, I have too much work to do.



























- Really?

Just one thing's not really good, so I'm gonna start with her, okay?






- But would it be better to have a home of your own?




- Oh, darling, for two years you haven't understood how we feel about each other.




- It's true!



As far as his character is concerned, it would be better for me to live apart from him.
























































- Soon, but you've got a lot of homework to do.
You'd better get to her right away.






- Go to the observatory, I'll be there in a minute. - Okay.

- It's okay, but it could have been better.



















Because my dear Susan, Mr. Franklin, is very fond of his current work.









I went to see a doctor this morning.
















- Yes, darling. I'm afraid it's necessary.


- I promised myself when you agreed to this job that I would never blame you, Tony, and I wouldn't do that if you were just testing airplanes, but now I'm married not only to a test pilot, but also to a researcher.
It's not fair, Tony, really.
- Honey, I hate this.





































- Honey, France.





























- Good trip?












- I'll wait in the Jeep, okay? - Okay...
- What job at Ridgefields, Philip?



















- Don't worry, darling, we'll figure something out.







- Oh, good.
- The best kitchen in Cairo.
- Just think, you were in England this morning.






- How are the kids?
- Okay, thanks.











- Thank you, John, it's a good steady coffin.












































He was a good guy, old Jeffrey.























I was gonna talk to Dad about giving up this job, but after...



Christopher told me the same thing the night before he died.


I just don't want him to think that I quit my job because someone else died doing it.

- I can't see him tonight.






















- Yes, darling, I hear you.



















Hello, darling.







Well, that was a good idea.














- Oh, I think she's taking it as a job, like any other.





But perhaps the best is not to say.







There's no better pilot in this country.









- Nice work, Will.














This guy's a good pilot.
Tony says he's better than him.

No one is better than Tony.






















- You have a good hobby here.




- Well, just one night.




You can tell me the truth, I can accept it.





Oh, I'm sorry, darling.








- They say the movie's good.





































Okay, here we go.

No vibrations. The balance is good. Increased speed.................................






Okay.












Okay, 12,000 meters high.

























- You'd better sit down.










































- Call Dr. Peyton, Philip.








































- Bifield's work?


- I think, J.R., a good plane should have something fatal in its form.





- It's too good a plane to lose, Will.
It's the best thing that ever appeared in England after the war.



Maybe this isn't the time to say this, but I'm following your work very carefully, and now that MacPis is leaving us, I've decided to appoint you as chief test pilot.













- Hello, darling.













Come on, darling.






























- Sorry I'm late, honey.









Unfortunately, darling.




How was your flight, darling?





















- Honey, I hope he's still okay.




- Can I buy a coat for the kids?
Well, okay.
Now they're gonna look more like Harrison's smug kids.



















- Will, you'd better go.




Oh, good evening, Sue.
- Good evening, Father.



- Okay.




















- My dear Susan, that's how you picture me.




- My dear Susan, if you could just tell me at the expense of the Ridgefields what's happening to the plane at the speed of sound, I'd say,















Examples can be good and bad, you know, Father.
That's why I'm taking my baby far away.


- Okay.











There aren't many good schools.



































Okay, second try.



























That can't be true. Can't?



Okay.
















- Okay.










Okay, we're coming.


































- It's a good thing I caught you here.
- Hey, honey.







Pay attention, darling.






Well, bye, darling.





































Good morning.










Get to work, Carmine!

- Good morning.
- Good morning.






- Good morning, Your Excellency.



Good morning, General.
Good morning, Mr. Mayor.
- Good morning, Mr. Mayor.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mr. Mayor.












Okay!
- Very good.







Okay, very good.
I want to congratulate you on your work.

I'm not happy with this office.




Get to work!

- Really?

Okay!







Good work, Professor!














You see, dear Professor, your dream is, rather, our dream is being realized.




This will refresh your mind, dear Professor.














































We'll start work as soon as His Excellency officially lends to the company.




Wait your turn, distinguished doctor.





















- You have your word, Doctor.


















All right, sir.





- Okay, what's the problem?

"Dear Professor...
"Dear Professor... your dream, I suppose, our dream or your dream..."

"Okay, air the north wind!
































Have a good day, all of you.














You threw away a piece of marble, broke a chair, then you compromised the mayor's work, changing the acts.









Make good copies of these acts... and add information from the cadastre.




My dear friends!







Honey!





My dear, you know I always sleep naked!
















- Okay.

Yeah, honey, I know.




Please, darling!


My dear, calm down!
























- No, three, my dear!




- Do you feel good, friends?













- I'd love to poke your eyes out.







- Okay, look...
This coat is still in good condition.
It's a little torn up, but it's a little work.

It was an accident, a problem with women...
There was a woman and...

- I know it's in good condition.












Good morning, sir.
















Woman!
Oh, woman!

Woman!
Oh, woman!




















- Drink some cognac, you'll feel better.





Let's get to work, my friend.












Okay... shoulder size: 42.





























Your career will go up, and women... love a nice coat.










- Okay. - How dare he?




- Dr. de Carmine!








Even the kids know about your tricky dig-up counters!
















- Then it's okay.


Okay, don't worry.

It's okay.





























Even children know.


Then they came to an agreement and shook hands.


Then they enjoyed hugging each other.




































I found a good secret place...





















We need good material for the winter coat.
We have good English wool, but it's very expensive.





















- I'd say for a big shot, my friend.




- Good morning, gentlemen. - Good morning.


It's a good job!


- Good morning. - Good morning.







- Good morning.

















And it's all true.






It's all true.
























- Good morning.







Before wishing the Mayor a happy new year, I invite you to my home tonight.



















Is it gonna be a good photograve in a new coat?












I've been watching this all morning!





- Not really.



















Okay?




































- That's so good! - It's made for me.








- Will you talk to the mayor tonight?







I have five children.









Let's shake hands.












































Pensioners and unemployed with small children.
















I'll call you tomorrow morning.



- No, I'll talk to you tomorrow morning.















- Really?










- It's not that easy, my dear!





















































Okay, my... my new coat was stolen... with fur trimmings.


















All right, come in!








Get to work.





















- Call a doctor.
Good morning, Katerina.















- Do you see, Doctor?





















You have a good memory!



- Okay...























































- I wish there was some truth...







































- Okay.








My darling!








Sorry, my dear.



























That's right, the doctor said:














I'll call the Carabineros, the police, the army and the tanks. Okay?





















Hiroshima children













I wish you a good vacation, but don't forget your studies.





It's probably nice to have a hometown.


It's a good thing you were born here.





You better get ready for tomorrow.




That's good. You'll come to Hiroshima before sundown.
























Okay, I'll try.






It's better to forget what you remember.





The children born that day have already grown up.






































But it's better than nothing.



That's not true.




































Did they have a baby?






















And many children are orphaned.





We get about 13 hay per baby a day, and the food costs 9 hay.


But the kids are good.


















But it's better for Taro.














I don't feel so good about Eva-san.




Good evening.








Have you eaten, darling?


Good husband.

He's not that good.




How's the bathroom?











Kuraisi says we can take their last child.


We want to adopt a child.
She can't have children.

No, the doctor said it was impossible.

I'd better go see the baby.
Yeah, the sooner, the better.





He's a little crazy, like a kid.
When did you find out you couldn't have kids?




The doctor said I had a rare case.
Three kids from kindergarten survived, didn't they?

























Better get a doctor.






The doctor's here.


Doctor, he doesn't know what's wrong with him.



































It's very good that you're asking him to do this.








Okay.
Dear Mother, go to bed.






















Since I can't have children on my own, I've been helping other people. - Please hurry.



















- Okay. I'm just gonna dive again.













It's a good thing you're here. It's been a long time.



























































































My uncle and my aunt have only one child.

For Taro, it's the best thing to do.


















Okay.



She's a noble woman.










































You'll be fine, Taro.







Good kids listen to adults.




















Why did you buy me such good shoes?

















- Never. - You're a good boy, Taro.










The woman we had today.




















Rest in peace, my children.
It's better this way.









































You're gonna show him the sea, okay?











My business is cement and subcontracting.



















Well, what are you displeased with, madam?



























Best opportunity ever, men.
Don't interfere with women's rights, screamer.

















Okay.






What does this mean about tax programs for middle-aged men and women?










Okay.



Okay.















It's a good story, George.



Can you leave tonight to write about the state strike?



It's not our job to prove he's guilty.











I'm gonna make a good article.
Okay.




But we're the best team in town, maybe in the country. Why?






















Oh, good.






We thought it was best to make a general announcement separately.




































































It would be nice to move it until the sale is over.



























Go now and look for a new job... or wait for a court decision.
















































Yeah, okay.

Friends and unemployed -














I came to the Jordan River from a weekly yellow newspaper... and asked old John Harrison for a job.



















I gave it the 14 best years of my life.

Eighty-one dollars in savings, two dead husbands... and two or three kids I wanted to have.













But she gives her people jobs.

Maybe if I gave you the opportunity to type this, you'd still have a job.










They want to know how to bake a cake, win friends, and influence the future.









It was a good wake.











Journalist is the best profession in the world.

It's a skilled job.



That's why the journalist's job has to be professional.















Maybe I could get a job at--
I understand, but I didn't keep my job in my Paris office.






But the best.







Yes, darling.
Yes, darling.
That's why I'm going to dedicate the best years of my life to you.




Yes, darling.



















I'm gonna make a decent woman out of you again, Nora.
- Yes, darling.
- Yes, darling.












For being a good boy, I was paid generously.
































Yes, darling.







Yes, darling.







Yes, darling.


Good night, dear.











Okay.
Good morning, darling.








Dinner tonight?
Why not every night?



Was I good last night?
Yes, darling.
Really?




Good morning.
















































































"Day" paper, good morning.


The job where he gets the money,

















He has two children, from Gertrude's legal wife.












































Call Dr. Emmanuel.




















"With no distortion, with no hope of personal gain... to bear the truth, as we have always done."

Dr. Emmanuel's on second.
Hello, Doctor.


My friend needs your help.



Which could be more important, Doctor.















Okay?
















Good evening, Mr. White.
Good evening, Mr. White.


Good evening, Mr. White.

















It's the best front line in town.



















Good evening, Mrs Hutcheson.
Good evening.










It's urgent, darling.


























That's how I meet women.






























I'll find another job, something else--





You're the best journalist in the world.























Okay.
Okay.






















































She quit her job at the store.





















It's better for both of us.

Later, darling.






























About his job?





























I didn't want to interrupt your work.

















Okay.






I'm just trying to do what's best for Nora.














Okay.



























He says that Renzie sent a car after her every night after the show.















































Okay.
















Rienzi won't get "Day" with your address until the next morning.


















It would be good, Mr. Crane,


















Who's feeling good about it?













Okay?



























Okay, Nasty.
Okay, what?















You're a good journalist, they say.








Friends.
I have friends everywhere.
I'd like to make friends with you, too.
I have friends.





Well, well, maybe you have the wrong impression of me.


That's not good, what you're typing.
I have a good family.







- I do cement and contract work.

You have a sense of humor, friend.


























Wouldn't it be better if Herman Schmidt disappeared?













Okay.



Okay, you have your word.


Well, they liked each other.





















Okay.
It's true.





















We support people from the office-- sometimes good, sometimes bad.



























You were there Saturday night.







Intel from the department, the employee said you called at 1:30 a.m.




- Either you're telling the truth or you're gonna be fooled.









Well, he's... giving me a job.


















































The only child is Harriet and John Schafer, a chemical magnate.

















Judge McKay gathers the parties to deliver judgement at 9:00 tonight.




































Without a good report, there's no newspaper.





























































Very good.
The best.

























Even in the morning.












We needed each other.





Naked truth.






If she wants to come back, she'll be out of work.

I'm gonna look at a newspaper with good legs.

















































You'd better find Hutcheson.






















It's true." It takes a big building a day.








It's 1,500 men and women whose skills, heart, brains and experience... have made this newspaper great.




































Many of the best newspapers in this country have links to the same chain.


















"The newspaper Day after 47 years of daily publications was sold tonight"














































I wanted to be a good citizen.







Okay.




















Find another job, I think.





































But as long as one newspaper prints the truth, you're dead.















































I'll do the best I can.









And of course, we're your best friends.
For the work you've done here, I think it's necessary to say, and may the judge forgive me, this city will be safe until tomorrow.





























- Just leave and it's gonna be okay.























































But it was your job.
























My friends are here.






















































- It's okay, thanks.

































We have a lot of work to do.

It's not your job.





If I'm good enough to perform my duties when something happens, how come the city heads don't trust me to do it on a full-time basis?









Tomorrow they'll tell the other man that the job is done.







- Okay.
The truth is, you were against me from the start.























- Okay.
























- That's good.








- Okay, then.

















Thanks to you, women and children can live here.



































































That's good.






















































Frank has friends in this room.



















- Sam, he's your friend.


































Okay, Jimmy.






















I want to tell you something about you and your friend Kane.


























It's true, I didn't go to church often and maybe it's bad.









Isn't it true that Kane isn't the sheriff anymore?



But do it like adults and get the kids out of the building.
















We're not law enforcement and it's not our job!








We pay this man, and he's the best sheriff we've ever had.













Do you remember when a decent woman couldn't walk the street in the middle of the day?














He's the best sheriff we've ever had, and maybe he can't be better.






















It's better for you... and for us.






You've been my friend my whole life.
You gave me this job.

























































































There has to be a better way for people to live.











Okay.





































That's good.
























































What about my kids?







































Kane, come out or your friend will end up like Pierce.


















































































And we came as friends.
I only consider my friend who's got Saxon blood in him.











































They're John's best friends.














I'm afraid my friend and I will stay alive.



















If our blood is red enough to spill it in England's name, it's red enough to show respect to any woman on the island, whether it's a Saxon, a Celtic, or a Norman.


Honor without words, because they can fail me as much as they failed my friend.



















- It's true, m'lady.














A friend of Richard's who disappeared with the King.



























Okay, I'll be brief.
















I'd rather spend money fighting living Normans than bury the dead.































































Are we friends or enemies now?










They won't help him. He's not our friend.



















It's okay, but I don't have armor or a horse, and I have to fight John's people in Ashby and defeat them.











































































I haven't seen a squad... better than yours.


































His taste for women is a challenge to every Saxon.
































































You've become the best knight ever.












How do I know you're telling the truth?
























- He's in good hands, my lord.











How the Normans can rule England when some unknown Saxon can crush all our best knights!




















- And women?
- Their women are no better than dogs.












- Okay.



The knight's faith prohibits him from looking at you like a woman. And yours is like a man.






















































- My Lord, is it customary for two gentlemen to yell at each other?


























Boi-Hilber, you're holding my father and friends captive.
















































Cedric won't find you the husband of a Saxon king, so I'm the best option.












































































































- We'll find the women.




















- We're gonna make it. We use women as shields.













He's got a woman with him!
























What could be more important than what you can see and feel?














Lose a king or lose a child?









- Okay, deal.






















































It's true.





















































My Lady, dying, he told the truth.


































He's frozen in front of your iron woman.








































Other women have love and happiness, and I have disappointments.




But the morning comes, and the fog clears.












I wasn't "the woman of his dreams" but "a matter of priority".






































Madame, you both need to know the truth.










We can't have children.
















One day you're gonna meet a woman who's gonna show up nice.
















But this girl was with me all night.
All night?









By the way, some woman went over there. Right, sweetheart?



























































Okay.










































Toulouse, you used to sing in the morning? Before me?












































The best dress in Paris.

















You didn't go out tonight or this morning.



















A bottle. How's work, Henri?






















































































You felt good.
I wish I hadn't met you.



Really?


































Three hundred years ago, someone da Vinci impersonated a woman.






Usually three francs a morning and five a day.


























































Good evening, sir.



























It's beautiful here, isn't it?








Are you really sick?




All the kids fall, but they don't break anything.



















In the morning, you'll beg me to come back. If you find me.










































- You can't do better than that.












They're left without food for a long time, and by grabbing their prey, they rip each other's claws.



How can a woman like that get attached?
























I have a friend.
















































Really, Toulouse?





























You're back, so he's gonna be doing a lot better.




























































Good evening, Monsieur Toulouse-Lotrec.



The groom's a good guy.














































He's also avoiding old friends.
























Good evening, Monsieur Lotrek.



































This woman isn't dressed.



The woman's just getting dressed.



































Whatever's going on, it's for the best.








































Henri's picking you up, isn't he?

























And the wise woman?
A wise woman builds her life on a bank principle.















The works that many admire are often better than their authors.












Good night and thank you for a lovely evening.























One franc a day for ten hours working in a tight, warm room.
In the evenings, I sewed buttons to gloves for extra sou.




Is loneliness familiar to a beautiful woman?








But loneliness seems to me to be the best choice.





























































She opened doors that were better off not opening.

















I got 50 a night.





But it's true.
It's true.






Isn't that right, Monsieur Lothrek?















- Independence makes it possible to buy wine to friends with bad habits.








He came here last night.









- That's reasonable. What else would a woman want?



























"Dear Henri, Marie Charle played an evil joke with us.






















You're my friend.




























Pata and I are old friends. You know that, Victor?




















If it doesn't get better, I'll call his mother.















































That's good.













Anything for her is fun. It's the best time of life.




Really?
















Good day!





Now's the best time.


















Smart woman.





He's the best.











































Nice suit.









I'm going to work for the company.

It's the best time of life!















































Good evening.








Are you feeling better?



























Okay.


It's a great day, isn't it?












Really?

Okay!





























I came here at 5:00 p.m.



























Did your brother get the job?


Okay.



Is that good?





It's a good thing you're all okay.






















Doesn't he look like someone?









Good morning, Mr. Stupid Head.






























It's a great day, isn't it?





Really?













































































Why not tell him the truth?
You're still a kid.




























I got the job.
Really?

















The cutlets were good, weren't they?


The other food is good, too.




































I'm glad you're okay.



































It would be nice to go back to Singapore.













Singapore Street in the morning.




















That's good.

Okay, I can do this.


Last night.









She ran to her room and left this morning.




























Okay, I'm gonna go.












































Not today's kids.


Really?























































Really?











It's good, isn't it?



Lots of good cheap food around here.





















You're gonna turn her down, aren't you?
Okay.
















Auntie, good evening!













You're supposed to be an adult. But you're acting like a kid.













Honey!


Okay, I'm not...




You knew about the fiancé. Isn't that right?














Very good.

















All married couples lie to each other.
Really?


If so, they're bored of each other.
You're much better than them.























Nice, isn't it?

Really?
You're good too.

























Honey.
























Really?





























But I love the cheap, but the good ones.



























Osaka at 5:00 p.m.























































































Led to Uruguay, didn't you?




I'm leaving tomorrow morning.

What time tomorrow morning?



Really?


























































Really?



That's good.






















I'm glad I came this evening.


































A woman only knows them when they're home.


A woman only knows a part of them.






Being a good liar, but the bitter truth is probably better than the sweet lie...




Have a nice day.














He's the best husband in the world.















Really?
















That night at the Pale de la Dans, there was a costume ball.





There were employees, pimps, and most of all, women who spent the night on all kinds of sheets, from rough paper to the thinst bastards.
Women rich, old, hunting young men, and poor girls who wanted to have fun, give up to men, spend money.















Garson, follow the doctor!

Doctor, you're being asked.


- Are you a doctor?





















- Your cognac, Doctor.



You're gonna be okay.










































And then, do you see, that he should be taken under this mask for a young man, that women should think he's still a boy and whisper to him all sorts of things?











And he comes back in the morning in a way that's impossible to imagine.




He's still good for his age, isn't he?


That's because you didn't see him at the best of times.



He took me with him the same night, and I never broke up with him for another day, no matter what.














Ah, sir, all women are the same.


How many nights have I spent alone waiting for him!











When I noticed his first gray hair, that morning I was in charge with a light heart.

The women stopped chasing him.







Mr. Doctor...





The doctor witnessed a scene of eternal drama playing daily in a variety of forms and decorations.








They went there every night, gathering small companies.





The peasant says, "It's a good craft."




They were good people, and they all fell in love.



At the very corner of it, there was a kind of pub for common folks and crewmen in the evenings.


Both of them looked like a sledgehammer who went off for a carnival, and their job was to get the drink money out of the customers.














- Good evening, Rosa.






One evening at the end of May, Mr. Poulin, the former mayor who came first, found the door locked.

Good evening, Duver.



























My dear friend, I have sad news.







It's a lovely evening.








Beautiful evening.





























































And on Saturday morning, an ambulance took away the mistress and her maidens.




















As soon as the ladies stopped being alone, they took on the rank to inspire a good opinion of themselves.






Not bad, my dear.



























The most expensive thing for your heart.























Your truth.





































- I left the best for last.























- You better watch the road.





From time to time, the wagon disappeared behind the big trees of a farm, and then reappeared from a green bath, taking away under the sun, past green and yellow crops baked with red and blue spots, the dazzling load of women.




Children need religion.













































































































You're not scared anymore, are you?






Associates left their homes in holiday costumes, and their parents, with embarrassed faces and awkward movements of people, usually bent over their jobs, followed their babies.





When relatives from far away surrounded the child, it was a pride for the family;



























Men, women, old men, young men in new blues, all soon wept, and over their heads, seemed to have done something superhuman, some living spirit, the wonderful breath of an invisible, all-powerful creature.

Dear brothers, dear sisters, thank you from the bottom of your heart: you have just brought me the greatest joy of my life.

Fun was somewhat cautious: the excitement experienced in the morning was as though it had not yet calmed down.

















































I feel better.








Tell me, Marie, isn't it a good family party?

















What beautiful flowers, aren't they?














That evening, a lit torch announced to passers-by that the flock had returned to the shepherd. The news of this spread in one moment.














































- Okay, six francs for you.








Everything worked out, and the evening turned into a real ball.












There's... there's also... there's no reason, dear friend.




Can you tell where the act is and where the truth is in women's actions?










When you feel attracted to a woman, you're genuinely convinced that you can't do without her for the rest of your life.









Women always say that.













































- It's expensive.








We were blazing along the coast, a little drunk with the vague excitement that causes such magical evenings. And we were silent, enthralled by the living coolness of this enchanting night.































They fought from morning to night, fought and even fought.


















We won't be jamming each other.

















She waited for him every night.
One night, about nine o'clock.
Jean was busy working. He thought it was over.

























So, no scenes, okay?











That's it, my friend.


And since his life didn't work out, he went to work completely.







But, my friend, happiness isn't always happy.


It started a warm evening a few years ago.




- Hello, Doctor.







- My assistant, Dr. Boatling.
































Dr. Mitchell, why, even though you've had a telescope for a few years, have you only been able to take these pictures now?


































- I want to see the kids.












All women in the world, we all live in fear. It's become our usual state of affairs.





























- It was good years.








If I thought our actions were gonna affect you and the kids, I'd blow everything up.































































































My dear friend.






- Of course, my dear friend.



































It's too late to bother you, but your report didn't come to me this morning.


Any excuse is good to get out of Washington for a day.













But secretly, it wasn't a very good cipher.





























































































Honey. If nothing happens today, don't get too upset.

















"Man is the best test rat"?























Where there are good scientists who don't know anything about them.

































Hello, Doctor!




Weeks of preparatory work are over.



















If that's true, the American miners, all the miners in the world will be out of work.

































You didn't find a better class than to mess with your own business?
- You've got enough work to do here.






Kids like to go home and collect candy.
I mean, kids who come out of the house.












You don't have to take evil out on the kids, Chris.









Good evening, sir.




























































As far as I'm concerned, they're wondering how the Martians, using space power everywhere, haven't tore each other apart.





















- Dr. Stokes.






































It's a good thing you came.



























Our job is not to move civilization forward.








Or that he has the power to eliminate 90% of his work?





Cary published a newsletter on space energy at 23:22 Pacific time, on the evening of the 27th.
The same bulletin was published in Moscow at 9:30 in the morning of the 28th. So what?






























Remember, sir, we asked how they, using space energy, had not yet erased each other from the face of the planet.




Dr. Sparks' translation said "God."



Why did you reject the truth?"



















































































































This morning, our armies and occupying forces in other countries were recalled.









Your lives, your children.

















Good evening, Mr. Cronin.




















Chris won't take your work.








It's a shame you couldn't continue working on your project.























- As soon as everyone knows the truth. - You can't do that!



Millions of women who are convinced for the first time that their children are safe.












But when we asked how they hadn't killed each other yet, he said,





But my friends stayed in Moscow.





Honey, you were there.














We expect you to believe the truth.








Like your husband believed me. And then you'll cling to each other's throats, all of you!

"It is better to rule in hell than to serve in Paradise."



























Let you tell your story at the risk of fueling people's hatred for each other.


















And humanity, kneeling in gratitude for its salvation, prays for the souls of these men and women.





























Cosmo is Don Lockwood's best friend.

Oh, my friends, here they are, here they are!






We're just good friends.















And we spoke together in front of Mom and Dad and their friends from the community.


They took me to Shaw, Moliera, the best classic.
We also received a good musical education at the Conservatory of Fine Arts.




We performed in the best concert halls in the country.




























Okay, Burt?










Don Lockwood, sir, but my friends call me Donald.

Okay, I'll try you.

























Do you have any plans for tonight, Miss Lamon?







And I'm sure you and Lina are gonna go into film history tonight in your best movie, "The King's Foot."










Lena, you looked like a pretty good girl. Damn it!



Lena, the advertising department decided it would be much better if Don gave the whole speech.





















Hurry up, we're late for Simpson's party.


I'll see you at the party!
























































































































Lover at night and pool, you think all the girls are gonna faint at your feet!
Don't be afraid, darling!












- Nice evening, Mr. Simpson.









Cos, tell me the truth:
Am I a good actor?
While I'm at the Mental Pictures, you're the best.

Tell me as a friend.

Of course you're a good actor.










Tell me the truth, guys. Aren't they wonderful?
Okay. Now open the screen.


The Hollywood rule is on the show tonight.




























Let's continue our evening.

















In the morning, at noon, as well as at night.



I have to tell you how good you were.



























Good morning, boys.












Good morning.























You're Don Lockwood, aren't you?





















































Okay!








I was looking for you at Valey Ray's party.








But you didn't lose your job, and she did.


They weren't gonna fire her, I said it would be better.





Okay, Don.





















I'm the best actor in the world and I'd rather kiss the tarantula!










Okay. Everybody turn around!







Oh, dear mother, let's go to Alabama--








Then I lose my job.























- That's a good idea.























































































I said terrible things that night, didn't I?

















































Very good.





- Very good!








Here's a good one.






























Yes, darling.


Yeah, honey, that's much better.










Lena, we're all nervous on the first day, but it's gonna be okay.













Okay, okay.































- You two better not come in alone.








- What's the matter, darling?


Oh, darling, what luck.



It's good and loud, isn't it?









































- The house will be auctioned in the morning.












Something happened to me this evening.
All you said about me was the truth, Katie.










































It's 01:30, it's morning!
Yeah, and what a lovely morning!
Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Good morning.
- Good morning, all of you!
Good morning, good morning, good to be home late.
- Good morning, all of you!


Good morning! Good morning!

Good morning, good morning to you

Good morning. Good morning. We talked all night long.
Good morning, good morning to all of you!
Nothing could be grander han to be in Louisiana. (Nothing can be better than Louisiana )
In the morning, in the morning.

- Good morning. - Good morning, all of you!
Must be just as zippy if we are in Mississippi. ( It would also be good in Mississippi )


Good morning!
Good morning!

- Good morning!
- Good morning!



( "Good luck" )



































Okay, if only for this movie, but....



Okay, I'll talk to Simpson in the morning.




































I guarantee Lina won't even know about Cathy's presence. Okay.

































Just as friends,




























































- She'll be better in the movie. - Okay, come on.
























































































- We'd better get Katie Selden out of the credits.
- Okay, do it.


















Oh, Pierre, my dear Pierre.













It's going great, isn't it? - Yes!











You sang as well as Katie.

















































































That's the girl whose voice you heard tonight!
















The interesting thing is, it doesn't hurt anymore. - Really? - Yes.






































































Horse, darling, I assure you, that's not what he meant.



















I don't know, maybe you have the courage to go your way, no matter where it leads, to endure pain and suffering, to go through fire, water and copper pipes.










You want to try it tomorrow? Nice weather, buddy.








Helen, honey, you don't have to pay attention to me.














- Okay. - Harry! - Hey.


























It's okay to have a good time.


I remembered the good tone.
















The children played in the street under the rays of sunshine.




And a cooperative where we bought ourselves wine, good wine... and cheap.


Honey. Breakfast's ready.



And this quarter, among these poverty, I finished my first book. A good book.



Harry, honey, I'm so excited.




Honey, I've been looking at a lovely apartment on the Seine. Let's go to Africa.




























Okay, Harry, if you go, I'll go too.
























A woman shows her courage in a different way.


I'm expecting a baby.


But it's natural, isn't it? Tell him?

















If I tell him about my torment, about this child, about the upcoming responsibility... I don't want some things. That's not what this is about, believe me.

Tell him now, and stop his new job, or wait for something to happen?






Museums have better horns.






Honey...




Perhaps you'd better spend as much time in bed as possible.

That's how many women do it.
If you really want to have a baby, you'll make such sacrifices.

Thank you, Doctor.







- What, honey?







Honey, can't we just go home?



No reason. With that money, we can rent a nice apartment.
You'll have an office to work with.









- Maybe the kids? - Kids?
Honey, I want a baby more than anything in the world-- my own mother-in-law, who I could hold to my chest.
Of course I love kids.



I'm giving up a part of my life to get what I need for my job.







Okay, if it's a matter of life and death, then fine, I'll go with you.

Unfortunately, she lost her baby.





Didn't you know anything about the baby?
Don't you talk to each other?




Don't, darling.



Whatever you say, darling.


You know, honey, I think this dancer likes me. The dancer likes you, and so do I, darling.








Because there's a war going on there, darling.

Honey, don't drink too much.


We love each other so much, and we can't do anything.
That's not true, darling. I shouldn't have worked so hard for happiness.



I shouldn't have hoped to have a baby from you.
















Women can choose time to fight.
It's not a fight, darling.


























Let's say she's no better and no worse than the others.
Beautiful woman in every way.




















You Africans, you treat women right, you buy your wife for a few cows.







A new woman is a new book.




Of course, darling, especially when I'm swimming with you.












You have something else I'd like to consider mine. So you're not leaving, darling?




Let go, darling, I'll stay here.




For the sake of courtesy, say something, darling. I don't have a word.











- Dante sings it. - I know, darling.













When you and Harry get married, how many kids are you gonna have?

















- Yeah, it's very expensive.








I'm the only attribute you don't own, darling.








I can't get used to women opening my letters.











Why didn't you have the courage to tell me the truth?
What truth?







It's okay.





I had everything. What did I have? My name is in the papers, my pictures are in the best magazines.



My dear Cynthia, I couldn't get rid of my loneliness.



And then one day at the Ritz Hotel, I went after the woman I thought you were.
I followed all the women who looked like you. I was afraid it wouldn't be you, and I would lose the hope I had. Yeah?




These are my brother's children.































Darling, darling, stop.











If a plane is faster than a horse, it doesn't prove the world is better. I meant our relationship.












All I knew was I had a gun in my hand. It's better if it wasn't.

It'd be nice to be in Detroit.

It'd be nice to be back in Detroit, where I lived before I got in here.





Friends, attack!











- Honey, did you read my letter?

And the baby?
And the baby, too.

Honey, I was so wrong about the baby.





They're coming, they're coming, darling.


My dear, when you hug me, I'm not afraid of death.


My dear.

My dear boy, I'm sick.
We'll find you a good doctor.

















I get paid very well for entertaining people.











While you were gone, Harry, I tried to keep an eye on your work.





































I remember... one night when I came in here.



































Forgive me, my dear Cynthia. I've become much worse... in these empty years.

























We're not kids.










It was good here.









Really?










Try it, darling.





Harry, tell me, was it good for you here because she was with you?













I thought if I went with you, you'd have a good job, and we'd be happy again.




You're an extraordinary woman.


























Come on, doctor, it's time to hand over the cards.

















Honey, are you in pain?
Honey, I didn't mean to hurt you.








Honey, in the first aid manual...



Honey, please.




Honey, don't laugh.

I'm trying my own way too, darling.





What's wrong with you, darling?
What's wrong with you? It's okay. There!


It's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's Honey, are you still conscious to listen to me?



Yes, darling.











Honey, he's here!


Honey, look.








Good morning, my children.


Well, my children, tell me, what trouble have you come to me with?










My children, if you accuse someone, you must have proof.





















Facts! Now, my children, I have many other things to do.

Oh, and it's not easy.












My children, I am your father, your protector.


































































- His friends sent me.
- What are his friends?

























































































- Woman, what else?






























Don Us and the Delator don't offer jobs to those who hide from the law.



You don't know that I'm the best man in this country to know horses.



























- Really?







And that's the best thing you can do. Where are the others?







































What's in you from a civilized man is a tendency to have good cigars.

Do you want this woman to be your wife?


















- He's my friend, he's been away.











































I think you'd better let him go.








Field, it's like a woman.












My friend, don't think I don't understand the honor you owe me that you want to take my daughter away from me.















I have no desire to know that she is sitting on naked ground. And baking cakes like an ordinary Indian woman.







































- What's going on out there? - A few women are coming.






- I don't trust Indian women.

















- Did you really do that?



Did you really do that?










It's a good horse.




Don Emiliano, my friend, I've come to introduce our great liberator.



Emiliano Zapata, my oldest friend.


























With all my heart, I loved a hundred women, and I don't want to see any more. And he's all running for the same thing.












I believe that a man is fire, and a woman is the firewood that feeds him.





My best horse.




Do you think three women and a goose will be the market?

And the one who has a good wife is kept by the angels.












- Is that true?
- Really.






It's almost morning.





My dear friend, we're getting old.



- You, my friend, have heavy blood.




I didn't like you, dear friend.

- Okay! It's gonna be!














We're gonna find a good piece of land somewhere, and we're gonna settle in there.






- Do you think we're gonna have kids?












































It's fertile, flat and well-irrigated, and I've been told it's got a nice house on it.







































But you're his emissary, officer, friend.



It was a good piece of land.






















Darlings.























- He's a good man.
































They're good people.











That's a very good explanation, isn't it, Emiliano?








- That woman has three guns.



No, it's too expensive.
As expensive as your sons' lives?















I want to shake hands with our liberator. I'll tell my kids about it.











Maybe it'd be better to kill him.






He also has good qualities.





























- Okay, okay.




It's gonna be okay.

































Two hundred and forty-four good peasants, your relatives. They're winning, but they'll never be able to enjoy it.

















It's true.





He was a good man, Emiliano.







Freedom, not words. A man who could sit quietly in front of the house tonight.



Can good come from bad?









Two hundred and forty-four people were killed this morning.


You and I have been friends ever since we were guarding the fields.































































I've got a good ranch now, I'll be ranch president.
I listen to roosters in the morning, not horns.














































- Carlito, is that true?
- Really.

Okay.































No wife, no woman.
No friends, no love.





























If you have to, you'll have to give up your lives and your children's lives.



If the children are dead, raise new ones.








He was telling the truth.












Every man, woman and child with Morelos is in Zapata's army.
































- It's weird to be the truth.



Okay.
Okay.
















































- Yeah, but they can follow each other.















We're leaving tonight.



























































































Ever since you fell in love, have you forgotten your friends?






















All the better!














But it's better to be clear.

This woman was supposed to leave.



We believe that every woman is free to choose how she lives.


Such a beautiful woman is worth a lot of money.



Let's say... 300,000 lire, and we'll be friends.






A woman you can buy.




































If we don't, we'll be friends.

- Good evening.




Got a job?








































It's good for you.

















- Where were you tonight?








Tell me the truth.

















































































Okay.






















Really.

You and I... we're supposed to be friends.










Women, parents, poor people.




The woman I saw you with the other night. Why don't you introduce us?




















All the better!

































It's a good opportunity.


- You have a good voice.













No, your friend is such a liar.

But I can get you a good job.









Your friend was kidding.





You deserve better.

I have a friend who's looking for cute girls for a party.



There's a job for you.




















Beautiful, isn't it?

























That's good.

Come on, darling.






























































































But he only thought of you... and stopped freaking out. Because he wanted to offer you a better life.








- Really?

Let's not blow each other's brains off.

No, Carlo, you'll see, we'll find a good lawyer.




































I think he'll be happy if you find him a good lawyer.












- Oh, good.





35 pairs will compete with each other until they're exhausted.






- Yeah, yeah, okay.












Ladies and gentlemen, remember, this is only the first night.



































Good job, Bravo! I don't know.



Okay, signorina.















































Let's get to work.





























































































There's no one better than Alda.










































Lucia helps me get bonuses every night.







They're good, they're capable of miracles.





































You can make good money.



















- Okay.
- Okay?
















































Helping the woman who took him from me.














Did you think you'd get a job?






















Are you expecting a baby?









My baby shouldn't be born when his father's in prison.











































Do something good for once.






















































































Where's my baby?




Where's my baby?











If she gets better, I'll let you know.





















- Women will take care of everything.
































Okay.



































They killed our baby.





























- I'll take your car. - Okay.


















That's where the agent came in and offered you a job?








































I really love you.

































Ten women are leaving today.













































You will pay for those who disgraced our women.
























Where did you send these women?



I'd be sold out too if he didn't tell the truth.









Tell me the truth.









The women you're talking about...




I loved this woman.


You've abused hundreds of women.







Is this woman worth it?






































The ship's good, isn't it?












My ship leaves in the morning...














































































Well...
























Father: In the morning he gave the word to return to that island far away! Stepan!

I'm gonna put on a ring and say goodbye, buddy Condrat.


























All right, Nastinka.





















Forgive me, my heart friend!








































































Where are you, my loyal friend?

Get up, wake up, my hearty friend!







































Madame Treyman was... okay.







- Okay, well, Mrs. Treman, I'll give you a shot.





















- Do you still need us, Doctor? - No, thank you very much.




The doctor gave her a sedative.









I've had to get slapped by women before.





























He told me to call a doctor and wait.


















Honey, what's wrong with you?







Honey, stay there, I'll finish it and...

































Okay.






Catherine's my stepmother, she's very jealous because he only talks to me about his job.















Okay, if that's what you want.







Really?



That's what I wanted to ask you, darling.











It's a good thing you're here.




I was with him last night. After he came to see me at my house.











Diane, I'm sure you told me all this for good reasons, but I don't believe you.







I don't have many friends. Almost not.

































Oh, honey, you're not gonna let some steak get between us.

I was in a lousy company last night.


Okay, you can go to bed tonight.


- Yeah, the others. - Okay!
- Okay!
- Okay!





















I was at lunch with Mary today, and I told her about last night...











Mary understands that, but you know women.





It's even better, especially since you're a professional, even if you haven't raced in two years.















Good evening, family.



Yeah, I got the bill this morning.
Really, Diane, when I let you pick up something simple...
Oh, Catherine, darling, you know simple things cost more.

What do we have tonight?



















And besides, I think it's a good idea to have another man in the house.
















It's so easy for women to adopt bad habits.



How wonderful to hear your voice in the morning. Even if it's just "helo."












- Good morning, Miss Diane. - Good morning, Ito.















All right, have a seat, please.















I mean, in the evenings.















I'll send you the papers, or I'd rather...

Okay, when you get back from San Francisco, call me.










I'm terribly sorry, darling.














That's right, my dear, that was before I met you.



















We had a good idea, it just didn't work, that's all.


We'll have a good night.






- If she fires me, I can find another job.
Maybe it's better this way.
At least we don't have to date like kids hiding from everyone.






Okay, if you think it's best.














- Sleep well.


All right, good night, Jane.












































You mean after we were together?















I called twice last night.


Okay.





Why did you call me last night, Frank?














I got a job that pays more than the driver of this lousy car.

A job to take boss daughters to parties in Mogambo?
They have a good company there.


















Okay, how about tonight?








This job isn't for me.










I can't. That's not good, I told you.



You hate this woman, and one day you're gonna get to the point where you're gonna kill her.

















Okay, but there's no law that says you have to stay here.























You better get out of here now.






The only trouble with America is that she's ruining women.


Sounds very good.




Help me, darling, I've looked everywhere.



- Thank you, darling.





Oh, thank you, darling.

Oh, honey, I have to run.


















Goodbye, darling, wish me luck.








Okay, I'll give you a ride.


That's the way I can get there, too.




- Okay, Ed, how are you?

You know, I was just asking about you last night at your redheaded partner.

The work of people like Treyman makes you kind of special?

I'm just very busy at work, that's all.



How did you get into this job?









What are you, a kid?
A woman with her money?










This morning when I took her out of the garage.






Oh, good.























Good morning, Miss Sayden.














Fred is the best lawyer in our country. We're lucky we got him.









It's okay, let her talk.








But the doctor doesn't want you to make any statements.









But I'm telling the truth.
The truth is what the jury decides. Not you, not me, not Frank.


I think... a very good chance.














A pretty girl who dedicated herself to her father was in a warm relationship with her stepmother, who was a kind and generous woman, as you know.


































It's not as much as we'd like. But, kids, we hope you'll eat a little.















Okay, now.
























































That's a very good question, sir.
















What would I like to know from Mr. Miller? Is this sort of, like, setting up a car, like he said, a very complicated thing, or can a woman do it?












With his knowledge of mechanics and her good knowledge of victim habits, they prepared a murder, premeditated, cold-blooded murder.



















I was awfully surprised when I heard Mr. Judson black out the image of a man and a woman who had committed only one crime, they fell in love.





















It's a good thing someone thought we should celebrate.












I didn't have any friends and my father became everything to me.

















I'm not accusing you of being angry. But I was really trying to tell the truth.






She wouldn't want to think for the rest of her life if it was true that her husband was involved in the murder!






















We couldn't get to you in court this morning.





















Okay, if you want to talk about it, do it without me.

















I never knew he was telling a woman first.




You want us to find another job right away?
No, waste the time you need, I want to make sure you find a good job.


Good morning, miss. Excuse me, ma'am.

Yeah, I'm going to the agency, looking for another job.





I told you this morning.














You want to sign and have it witnessed, very well.















Frank is free and I can tell the truth.

Okay.


























































It's over between us, we've already told each other everything we have to say.

You're making it worse for yourself, but good.



















































They sailed straight, straight, and Belogged, very strong, took a friend who trusted him to an amazing country where horses and people are always friends.






































Good seamen's headquarters are obliged to continue their business where others have stopped. For seafarers heading ashore away from the port house, it must be and is the second house where the visitors don't feel like strangers and where everything they need is at hand.

Lots of places, lots of good, cheap food.





I don't know where I can bring my friends.

Here, seafarers are not employed as an incentive, but according to their rights, in the order in which they applied.













Some are good enough for any gallery.

















This credibility is achieved by working together for their common interests.


Later on, the children of seafarers have the opportunity to receive a scholarship from the MPM College.
Seafarers are entitled to paid leave after 90 days of work.














The Sailor's Journal, commonly referred to as the country's best newspaper for workers, is delivered by airmail to the MPM vessel everywhere, keeping seafarers up to date with MPM events.






With the best contracts in the maritime industry, IPM guarantees that seafarers will take full advantage of these contracts.


The Seafarers &apos; Union, in performing its work, must meet and serve its members on board the ship.

Working on board a ship, every sailor knows that his work, his right to work, and his rights and interests on land are fully protected through cooperation with other seafarers, not only from his crew, but also from the union.




















They also know that this organization has the best agreements ever negotiated in the history of shipping.












dignity, security, a better life for themselves and their families.













Look, Naomi, you're too good for vodville.





What's the matter, darling?




Dear Mother...






It's more fun now, isn't it?



That I have a baby?



There's nothing to be proud of, is there?





He always said he embarrassed him and the kids.




I get information from the house about the state of affairs, and they're doing okay.







- Oh, Bella. Kids hope so.


You represent their vision of a perfect woman and a superstar.









































Dear sister, you can find me in the kitchen!



Okay, Joyce.














It's amazing, isn't it, Lena?






This evening, my play.






















Miss Harper told her father that I was the best dramatic actor in Riverdale.















You know how much you helped me, Sarah. Really?




You'll be on time tonight, won't you?












He's still the only hotel, isn't he?



























Be a friend, bring them here.












You know Ted Murdock, don't you?




















If you're nervous, honey, maybe a glass of hot milk...





Ted. That's not very polite. Really, son?



I almost got a good soup in the sink.









How dazzling you look. Really, Dad?
















How you've changed, darling!



Dutch says she could be the best hunting dog in this part of the forest.



He's the best.

















Okay, I'll be right up.

















It's gonna be okay.



























Isn't that right, Sarah?
A lot happened this evening.


Really, Henry. I thought you knew about the letter.















You think I didn't want to see the kids before? - You never tried.








I'm worried about the kids.

















I'll make a good impression, Henry.
That's all you care about, isn't it?






I was hoping that after a while, we could be friends.
Really?
We can... just for one night, for Lily's sake.





Good evening.
Good evening, Miss Murdoch.
It's gotta be an interesting night.


Good evening, Mrs. Phillips.
Good evening.













Come on, darling.

- Good evening, Mrs Underwood, Colonel Underwood. - Joyce.





Good evening, Henry.































Why can't I take my eyes off her all night?
I think Baroness Barkley is the most charming woman I've ever met.
Really?

























The ticket's fine, isn't it?





















If my game was good, I wanted to tell you why.



Lily was great, wasn't she?









Oh, Mom. This is the best day of my life!




































The best party we've ever had.





Maybe if she... maybe if the kids don't need me anymore, finally, you and I... you know what I mean, Peterson?




















She's not gonna let herself have any, uh, shrubs that could ruin her night as opposed to someone else.
To ruin my night?

















Sarah, how good of you to come.
























It was... when there was a good horse.






- Okay. - But not now.
























Thank you, darling. It's balm for me.



















Really?






You have to. How wonderful if you were with us. Really, Dad?













Lena's gonna take care of it this morning.

I shouldn't have done that, should I?






























But this morning, I'm gonna spoil myself.















You can play. Maybe even better than I could have.
Oh, Mom! Then we'll leave, won't we? Lily.

I've always wanted to be with you, darling. Always.









































But you can't deny yourself the pleasure of having fun with a young man, can you?
Even if it's true, what are you gonna do?







We're disappointed with each other, aren't we?











If you really like fishing... I love fishing!






It's beautiful here, isn't it?



It's a great place to row, isn't it, Russ?












Okay.





He's as vain as he used to be. Isn't that right, Dutch?





Old friends have something to remember.
Old friends?
I came to the house on the hill this morning.















Just us. I'm leaving tomorrow night.















Okay. We always do small things yesterday, and I thought maybe you could...







If you appeared before the citizens as you did before the children yesterday, it would impress them.









You're the woman he needs.
But you're the woman he wants.








Besides, you have kids.











It's true.











But I have to put them down before he comes by tonight.













He's... you're saying I'd better leave right now?
Yes. I think it's better.


It'd be better if you put it in vinegar for the night.
Okay. Lena, you can clean up.


- Good evening, Russ.
- Good evening, Mrs Murdoch.







Have a nice evening. Good night.




Henry, I've been thinking about it, and I think it's best if I leave on today's train.







No, Henry. It's better this way.


Really?











Naomi, maybe it's best for Lily to leave now as long as there's a chance.






































It's a little late, isn't it?
































I missed you, Henry, you and the kids.








Good morning, Lena.
Good morning.
Isn't this a great morning?


Good morning, Theodore.

I want to talk to Baroness Barkley, the most fascinating woman.




Good morning, Lena.
Good morning, Joyce.

What a beautiful day, isn't it?
Right. You had a great time last night.




- Good morning, Lena. - Good morning!






Good morning, Lena.
- Good morning, sir.
- Kids.
Good morning. Good morning, Naomi.
Good morning, Henry.































































I love him and the kids, and I don't want to lose them again.





And now I care about my family and my children.


I've been so good to you, honey. But he was too noble with you!
























- Mrs Murdoch. - Doctor, how is he?





I'm a doctor and I know Riverdale.

Dutch Heineman wounded by a woman







You can go back to Chicago, it'll be better for Henry... and the kids.
It's funny, isn't it?














She took him to see Dr. Tomlins.








Okay, Henry.











You'll all be better.





































Next season, if I'm lucky, I'm gonna be a bit of a lonely woman.






























It was just taking her away from me, wasn't it?







That's what it looks like, isn't it?











Okay. You two can be together.





The doctor will be right there.







She's just a kid.























That's what's best for everyone.























If I could take the baby with me right now.









It's about the fate of the child, and our test shouldn't be hasty.












Mrs. Graham seems like an educated woman.










They want to adopt a child between the ages of four and five.









If everyone was as picky as you, no child would be adopted in our country.


Especially when it comes to the baby.











You're gonna love it, aren't you?











You're a great wife, making progress at work and at home.
Will you love this child?










My stomach is the victim of my work.
Excuse me for being straight with you, Mr. Jordan, but you're overreacting to your work.






I think you're against our adoption.
































And that I'd be a good mom.




They'll be waiting for me in the office in the morning.




















The Grahams want to adopt a child, and we need to gather all the information we need.




















We only know him what he's like at work, stuck in business.
You know, I don't understand how a person can live... just work.









I really should wait for Mr. Graham.











Harry Graham really caught your attention. I'm sorry I had to wait so long to hear back from the hotel.




He only loves the best.
























Sorry to bother you, that's my job.






The baby wouldn't let her save two nights in a row.

And you intended to adopt a child?












That's exactly what happened that Sunday night when I got stuck in L.A.







Some men have their loneliness in a company of accessible women.
But I can't do that. When I got married, I never even looked at another woman.


Eva was depressed when we found out we couldn't have children.















This is the house of a woman who knows Hollywood better than any woman who is known by millions of viewers :

And here... on your right is the home of our dearest friend Harvey's most joyful man:




































Really?



My name is Harry Graham, I'm from San Francisco. Okay... and my name is Phyllis Martin, I'm here.













I know a place where the best Chinese soup is served.


- Okay.

- Hey, Sam. - Good evening, Miss Martin.
Good evening, sir. Will you offer the gentleman a seat at the table?

















- About six months. I needed a job, and Hannigan was looking for a pretty waitress to attract clients.





















- Okay.


But I'm better now.



But I will not forget this Sunday when two strangers saved each other from loneliness.













You're absolutely sure of me, aren't you?
Absolutely sure, darling.















There's nothing to worry about, darling.



































Good night, darling.






Of course, darling, someday we'll be gone.





Good night, darling.


The situation leaves much to be desired, but the service is excellent.

- You want me to get kicked out of work?





That's better.






Okay, after you're free.







And I spent the next night with Phyllis, too.
We didn't ask about each other. I never kissed her.


But I always thought we were lying to each other. I'm ready.
- Good day, Sam.








Okay.










I thought it would be best for everyone.










It's much better now.




















Okay, I'm gonna change, too.



















It started with "Honey, Phyllis...", but clearly he found another frauleen there.







Married or divorced? Maybe I have six kids. And I'm an ex-con.


















No, you'd better stay home.

























We have to be there for each other all the time.

- We should adopt a child so I can take care of him.







I was completely dived into work.



In the last four years after I found out I couldn't have a baby, I hated myself and the whole world.

I had no idea how I was gonna take care of someone else's baby. Do you remember?




And I would like to convey my love to the child who needs it.
- And even if it wasn't your own child?
- It doesn't matter. - You still want to adopt a baby?


I'll do it tomorrow morning.
I thought you were completely dived into work and didn't think about it.












I went to work. He only flew to Florida a few times.



























I'm her old friend.

















What did this woman mean when she said, "She needs you"?





Is this your baby, you want to ask?






Maybe I was afraid you wouldn't want this baby.


Don't be afraid... of course I want this baby to be born.





- Okay.



This is Dr. Wallace, he's watching Phyllis.

- How is she, Doctor? - Can I talk to you?
















How can a man decide to call a woman he's lived eight years with who loves him and love him how can he decide to call and ask for a divorce?








I'm sorry, darling...




Are you okay, Harry?























I really haven't been home in a while!












But it's my fault we don't have a son. It's a good thing he won't see it again.

Yes, there is. I realized that when I found out I couldn't have kids.



















I called him this morning.







You still want this baby, don't you?



Well... we'll meet Mr. Jordan.


When I realized how much this baby meant to Eva, I decided not to stop her.
I decided to keep our marriage until the baby grew up a little.



My son was born premature... as a doctor and assumed.












































"The husband who's gone on a business trip is secretly dating another woman."


I was just so excited about one woman.













I wanted to talk to Phyllis again this morning.




I loved Phyllis and our baby, and I didn't want to lose them.







Really?









Okay.












- You really want to do this?



















Darling... how wonderful that you've come. Why didn't you tell me?






















But it's only because he gave the child and his mother his name and dignity in society that society wants to destroy him.







I even admit that the defendant loves both these women.

I can even assume he's gonna lose both women.
I guess it doesn't matter which woman he wants to go back to, and the key question is, which woman would want him?



You're looking at decent women, Mr. Graham.

When a person, for good reasons, violates the law of morality, there is no need to invent a punishment.

































- Be a good girl, give me a few more minutes.


You'll finish it tonight.



- Is that good?
Do you want to see any more of my work?




But he wouldn't want you to be very lonely, would he?


























Isn't it beautiful?


You don't mind if I wear it first for one night.

















Maybe it's better, though.





- It's for you. - Really?



Tonight?


















And yet it's better than a cheap book novel, Crystal.





























It's none of my business, Nora, but why sit at home tonight, rubbing your heart over some guy who...












Are you sure you don't want to come with us, darling?





- Happy birthday, darling.






Dear Nora, you must have come to terms with the fact that I can't write hot letters.
I remember when we were kids in Bakersfield and I was on vacation in the San Joaquin Valley, and you always fought with me that I didn't write to you.















- Hello, darling.




I've decided to take your word for it and accept the offer you made to me this morning.










Okay.

























































Good evening.



















She's a beautiful woman standing at the bottom of the waterfall.















All I know is, I'd like to forget the beginning of this evening. - Deal.
Let's say tonight starts now.


Good evening, sir.



















































That's good.




I've invited a few more friends.


























I think I'd better get a coffee.

I think I'd better lie down.














Women usually surprise me when they... take off their shoes.

You'd better lie down.













Okay, kids.










Get up, darling.
Another bright, good morning!










The rest of the evening is a total eclipse.
























































I have a lot of work to do.
Jobs?
You call the column in the paper work?
The cleaning lady said he was still playing this morning.



















- Okay.











That's what I sold to Mr. Prable last night.





















































For the people of the East, all American women are beautiful blondes.










And for my good friend Captain Haynes of Homicide."












... "Polynesian Pearl Caters" at the Blue Gardenia restaurant last night."






































The point of view that brings this woman to this office before the police find her.














I can't hear the sound of the typewriters and the reporters.














You've had to leave women behind before.










Dear Blue Gardenia,


































































































































































It's about the interrupted call tonight.




I've already received a lot of calls tonight...


















Okay.























Where am I supposed to start?












We're willing to pay the best lawyer in town for this.

































There's a big gap in her mind most of that night.


















It's a good song.
















And they're looking for prints that she might have left on the phone tube tonight.





















































We listened together to good music from the jukebox.
























I was a late child...


































It's just the truth of life.





































You'd better go yourself, Miss.


You've done a great job, and we appreciate it.





















































Our good client.











All night... like crazy.
















I have to finish the work tonight, for which I was promised a large sum.




































But you know women... stubborn creatures.






Yeah, but don't go too far when he calls you tonight.














































You'd better leave.


















They'll dock in New York in the morning.

























































I don't like those who give up my friends.
- So you're a friend of Goyac's?




Maybe it's for the best.


I'll remember tonight.


































You didn't even give him a chance, and he was my friend.








And this is for my friend.
































It's really better to leave tomorrow. Maybe Honolulu.










































































So we're not friends anymore?







































My friends.
Hello, friends.

































What kind of argument between friends...



If you take it all into account, it's obviously your job.












Tonight I met a girl with her famous charm, her smile!




















































- Good night, friends.

Oh, women!

Ah, women!



















All the women came together.























Good morning, Mademoiselle.









"Dear Susanna, don't worry. I have to go.


Okay.

Just kids!
Do you think this guy's our friend?












Go to Vandom Square and check on them when they left this morning.





















It's better this way. Mademoiselle can't stand surveillance.

































True truth:
















I got on a plane this morning.

















































I hope not for long, or I'll be jealous of your friends.






Tomorrow morning, Racine Street, 29. It's an old liquor store.


















He was my friend...



If it's true that you killed him, then you'll pay for it.






It's good to ask questions.








Are we gonna kill each other?










Never important people do dirty work.



Good evening, madam. Good evening, sir.





































- Okay, buddy?


This morning's trip to the liquor store behind the villa's address.












- We're here to work, okay?


I saw Siegella this morning.








Anyway, we're entertaining Miranda until 4:00 in the morning.







Only to preserve the trust of our dear Lemmy!



Maybe it's better to deal with him.












The truth is... this guy's not fat.



I came from Cannes this morning in Mademoiselle's car...

































This morning, after we talked about Mademoiselle, the phone called twice.

























Really, Mademoiselle can kick me out.









Is he telling the truth?




I have friends, lovely people, but completely...








The kindness you're gonna make us... is to move into the Golden Goose Hotel tomorrow night, which is in Rambouillet.








Old friends, you know?




















- Good food, good manners!




































































But that's not it, really!

























































































Why didn't you ever talk about a friend?



You have good friends.















































































How's our dear Miranda?















































Mr. Director General, I have the honour to introduce you to my friend Lemmy Koschen, Special Agent of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.




























How's your friend McFi?
















After all, it's gonna be okay about the briefcase.




















Now you'd better go to the warehouse and wait there.
























Okay.





























Okay.





























It's hard work, isn't it?




- Are you okay?
It's no good, you'd better cut my ropes!






Oh, these women!






















































































- What are you doing tonight?


Women are dangerous!


























You're the best gourmet in Shafther.













Okay. I always talk to new guys.

If a soldier is good, he can quickly become an officer. But I have to show you the dream.













I was the best maiden in two years.
The commander's friend was transferred to our unit.
The next day, he became the best maiden.
- But I was better.












I need a good average weight.














The battle program is the best way to keep the spirit alive.


































- Everyone goes their own way.






















- Good morning, Sergeant. - Good morning, ma'am.
















- Like a woman.
- I've seen better.













- But it's okay, right?







It's none of my business how many women you've got on your side.


































I hate it when good guys are put on.

















All I know is he's the best soldier I've ever seen.

















The rifle is your best friend.















But there's more to it than work.

- Okay, I'll take it into account.
Okay, I'm going.








Okay, I'll see him.
























I'm sorry that such a woman is wasting her time.




Like when there's no kids in the house?

You're doing well, Sergeant.








































Not too long, really.

































- Angelo, I don't know your friend.

























You're okay, but I'm gonna go. There I saw my friends at the door.






I was brought here by a friend.




















- Only my friends can call them names!
































What do you women want?








































But it's true, isn't it?








It was okay, but all of a sudden, the pain started.


And he would have come if he hadn't been to a meeting with a woman.
He came in drunk at 5:00 a.m. I was lying on the floor. I begged him to call a doctor, but he ignored me.
The baby was born an hour later.




- And I'm not gonna have any more kids.



















































I was good, and they know it.





He was my friend. He loved this case.



















- It's funny, isn't it?


Okay, Pruit. Now bury the paper.




























- What are you talking about? Lost a good boxer.






- Okay.








It's better than sitting in a lockup. How's it going, sir?




















Okay.













































- Six years without a woman.


That's my friend!
















Okay, Fatzo, you're looking for death, then come here.




















































You're really not gonna make it?

I'm at work! What's wrong with you?






Okay.












I thought days were like a baby on the eve of Christmas.



































































































- Okay?
















You don't have a job?





























Are you okay?















That's a good point.



















The best.





















Pru, we love each other, we need each other.















I'm gonna be the right wife, I'm gonna have the right house, I'm gonna have the right kids.



I'm telling the truth when I admit I need you.












And why men look at it differently than women.
















Good guy.








































































- Friend.
- All right, man, come here!



























Okay... we'll sit together.



























My friend Pru and I sit here and discuss the weather.
- Friend?



He's the best soldier in the army.

















- Buddy, they're gonna put you in lockup, too.














Okay.




















































































































Sunday morning. Eight isn't here yet.




















And so there's a chance to be heroes. Maybe by tonight, the Japs will be in your paws.


























































Pru, stay till morning.







The army treated you like hell, humiliated you, killed your friend!



















Is he your friend?











Isn't it beautiful?

I can even see my old job.















































































- The woman I met on the drive.
A woman in the broadest sense of the word.













































































- I'm so sorry, darling.

















He's our old friend, isn't he?






You'd ask that of me tonight.




















I'll clean up tomorrow morning.

































































- Ah, Ambrose's friends.



































Good morning, Wendy.
Good morning, buddy.








































- Are you happy, darling?






Really.































- Oh, honey, it's not 10:00:30.


If you lose him now, what's gonna happen to you by tonight?














Honey.








Honey.
- Listen, my friend.



















- I'm so sorry, darling.























- Really?
- Of course, really!





















































































- Hang on, darling.


- Sorry, honey.













- Give it to me again, darling.







- Step by step, my friend, step by step.























- Good evening, Miss.
- Good evening.











- Yeah, but last night, when you said you weren't going, I sent someone else.
























































































The orchestra isn't very good, is it?


















- It's incredible, isn't it? Every year...
























- Thank you, darling.























Oh, honey, I love you!






































- Oh, honey, are you sure?








- Oh, darling, you didn't want to marry a woman without any experience at all?
























































































- Your friend? - Nope.

- I'm so sorry, darling.

- Honey, you can't drive without sleeping.































I know what the nonsense was last night.









Alan, darling.




















Good morning, kid.


- I think I left you in a bit of a surprise last night.














- My dear friend, when this car touches...









Come on, darling.




















































Come on, woman, get them out of here.






























- Woman, don't you understand, we're in the race.









- Be careful, my friend.













































































































































































- Oh, honey, don't worry so much.

















- Yeah, with my friends who were in the race.






















- So your best friend thinks you're dead?
- My best friend!
























































































Then you decide to blow each other's brains out.































- Cheers, man.




During that time, the child may have been born without help.































































































The woman is driving!
























































- Tomorrow night?







Really?

















It's true.























































You know, except for the war... it's the first time I've been away from Morty and the kids.











































































And the kids?









































































William Johnson, a salesman from Portland, Oregon... was found last night in California.






Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is Sam Hayes with the evening news.






















Pretty good, huh?










Leave the baby alone.










Let the baby go, let's get out of here.








It's a nice place, isn't it?































































Come on, Collins, let's get to work.















- It's supposed to work tonight.



































So, as you can see... the man and woman who were stopped at the roadblock were convinced that... they only saw two men.






















































































































My friend Jaime. He's got one.


- He's at work. - Come on.

I'll make a deal tomorrow morning.


When my friend makes the boat, the sun will set.
My friend doesn't like to use the boat in the evening.
- He only sees his wife and children in the evenings.


- You're gonna pay my friend, too? - Yes.








But you were thinking about each other.
























Good morning, Mrs. Paige.

















































































The cook hasn't come yet. - Really?



































Smart women bet on horse races and end up getting a husband.
- Really? - Think with your head, not your heart.







We've got a job, we're putting everything into a marriage adventure.































The smartest woman I've ever met.









This morning, I opened an old magazine and saw you.












































- Mr. Hanley from Dallas, Texas. - Really?











- Bunkers will do, too, won't they?


















- Good evening.











- Good evening.

- This way, darling.








Women in New York, you know.



- Ella's my daughter. - Really?







Do you know how many women have walked me?






At first, I spent time with the kids.





























- Is he your friend?






- Really?








































But he's making expensive orders.





































Diamonds are the best companion of women.




















































































Stop acting like a spoiled kid.

This isn't the time to sit around and get pissed off at each other.


































































- Are we friends? - Sure.

























Is the furniture really cleaned or is there another reason?











Really?

- Really?






































Good night, darling.














































She's a wonderful woman.


Why did you say that about her that night?












Poor people never deprive children of their inheritance.

























One at work, the other at the bank, the third at Elx.










Sorry, a friend of Shatsey's came by.







5:00 P.M. from La Gardia Airport.






- You're a friend of Shatsey's.























It's true.




















- Really?











































- Does that really count at the level?















It's my job. I don't own any bushes.

























It's expensive, but it's safe. No one's gonna see me like that.


I told my friends in different cities to send telegrams on my behalf to my wife.
And write that I'm late for work.

I don't want to brag, but if I hadn't had the wit, I'd be having problems at home and at work.










She's not used to expensive gifts.





Everyone loves their children.
































































- Tonight?



































- Really?










































































- It's Shatsey, darling.





- Isn't he cute?











































































- Does he really love you?








































Mr. Brookman, darling.








Honey, what time do you rate your fortune?
































You're the one who gave me and my wife shelter, a job, a friendship.
I felt like you'd let me think you were a friend.






You're the one who got us a good job... in the parish.









































Regular gardening at Mr. Villette's.



- Good morning, Father Logan.
- Good morning, Father.












Good morning, Father Milley.
Good morning, Father Michael.
Good morning.















Good morning, Father.

Good morning.
Good morning, Father.
Good morning. I have an appointment.




































This morning, as usual, I arrived at 8:30.


















Good morning, Sergeant.











So you're better? You looked pretty depressed this morning.








- Mr. Keller, good morning.
- Good morning, Father. You came back quickly.










Father, why did you come to see Villette this morning?
















































A man or a woman?






























Murphy, check every parish in town and find out which priest was absent last night.








Was he with any of them Tuesday night?


- Good evening, Father Logan.
- Good evening. I think this room has led the police gentleman to think we're hiding dirt under paint. But that's not true, Mr. Murphy, we've made sure that the walls under the paint are impeccable.







































You didn't know him formally or by work?






Really, you, father, weren't his client, you barely knew him, but... what were you going to meet him about?




































The next morning, I saw a priest outside Villette's house.









Where were you at 11:00 p.m.?


































Drink, darling?




















I'm sorry, thank you for a lovely evening.





It was a good night.








































Tomorrow morning, I'm going to Levis on the nine o'clock ferry.


- Good morning.
- Good morning, Father Logan.


Ruth, I was questioned by the police, they saw us talking at Villette's house the morning before, they're trying to figure out who you are.



























































I was seen on the ferry this morning with Michael Logan.






















- Good evening, Father Logan.
- Good evening.




You met Father Logan this morning on the ferry.





You also met Father Logan the morning after Villette was killed.










I saw Father Logan the night before, and I told him I was seeing Monsieur Villette at 9:30 this morning.
Did you have a meeting with Father Logan on the night of Mr. Villette's murder?
































Father Logan is an old friend of mine.





And yet you called him your old friend.



My wife doesn't have to answer these questions, she didn't swear to tell the truth.
Your wife was seen outside Villette's house with Father Logan, and this morning she was again seen with Father Logan, and she told us about her meeting with him the night of Monsieur Villette's murder.




































It was our last night together.











Soon I got a job for my future husband.





























It stopped raining this morning.





"Good morning, Madame Grandfort."
















We met the same night, he was very angry.

































But I told the truth.





























































- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning, Father. I came to see Father Logan, but Keller said he was gone.





























Call Dr. Bonar.
Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?






Dr. Bonard, are you a university professor?









Thank you, Doctor.





































So, is it true that you and the defendant had a relationship that you wouldn't want to put in public?

















Do you think the jury will believe that a woman in love hasn't tried to see her lover?




No, it's not true, it's not true.



















And yet you didn't see anything wrong with going on a secret date with a woman?

Did you take into account that the woman was married?

And you spent the whole day with this woman?

We were good friends, I haven't seen her in over two years.









If so, why did you hit Villette when he showed up this morning?










In that case, are you more violent when he blackmailed your close friend, Madame Grandfort?

























Maybe you're finally ready to tell us the truth.










































































































My only friend, Father Logan, is how kind he listened to my confession, and then a little shame, a little cruelty, and you spoke.



And this is my friend. Frank, shoot him in the shoulder to drop the gun.


























You don't have any friends.
What happened to your friends, Father?
















































































































































Louise isn't a kid long ago and...










































- Dr. Giulio Cantagalli.




























Tea, Doctor?


Doctor?










She was crying in the morning for nostalgia.











































- That's enough for me and the doctor.














It's the baby!
How many kids do you have?



Madame Azally and Dr. Dalpra.

- Dr. Dalpra, Mr. Azally.













- I always trust women.






































































- All right, darling. Suit yourself.





























Women smell winners.




















You know, in my position, I don't choose a job.


That's the job.


We'll find you a decent job, I'll ask your husband.






Oh, darling!







My husband, Dr. Dalpra.









What if I steal you all night?














- Precious work, and pay.




A naive guy gets a good job after all these years of poverty.
But he's being told it's a responsible job, and we need a deposit of 200,000 lire.



























































Dr. Dalpra.











































Getting money out of women?























































































































- Dr. Dalpra.


















Could you help me with another job?



All morning.











Sorry, honey, you can count it.


















Who knows? Maybe back to his kid.
























Let me introduce you to my friend, Mr Bertie.























Your friends are waiting for you, where are you?







I don't know what it was, but he had a woman with him.




















3rd: Live where the money is raised, i.e. , among women......................................
Women save money, men bring money.

Actually, I suggest that women buy dirt on them.















In the morning, the pickle mask strips off the wrinkles.

















































You tell the truth and I'll help you.


I've been following things all night.












































I found her a job by letting it go.

















































There was a theft at the scene of her last job, and I...



































Look at me, darling.








































































































Extortion of women?




That's not true!




































































































She needs a doctor, forgive her.







I'll see you in the car, darling.




















































We'll go south of Ensenada in the morning.



















































































Mom, you always treat me like a kid.























































- No, honey.


















































Honey, the worst is over.


















































You're like a kid.
The baby?



























What a child.



















































































Honey, don't worry.





























That's it, darling.


























One of us had to go get the doctor and the other left.









































Okay, honey.













































Did you really see the fishing boats when you were here, Dad?


They'll show up late tonight.

















































































I like smart women.





















































































I love women.














































































































But running away is my job.
It's my job to know that they always go in pairs.














Really?






















I need a woman to smile otherwise than a high?
How long have you been talking to a woman?





















We're gonna get you out of here, darling.
































It's okay, honey.





It's gonna be okay, honey.








I thought I knew about women.













I wonder if all women ask them.

Good morning, monsieur.



- It wasn't until this morning.




I tried this morning, you're gonna lick your fingers...




















Ask the woman.


















Oh, she took the kids and moved to Marseilles with her brother.



You see, my father told me that his old friend, Mr Godet, could help me, and when my father died and I had no one left, I wrote him a letter, Mr Gode.
































Of course, you know, I can't pay you when I'm studying, but you're gonna have a really nice bed and a stove to cook your own food, and in the morning, you're gonna open a store and work a little as a saleswoman, and... you're gonna be my little assistant, huh?




















































































- She lost her job.




























- Hey, listen, can't old Pierre Corvier give her a job with other girls?


















































































Sometimes, really, I forget to start them.




Maybe I can get you a job at the carnival.
What's the job?





















She's still a kid.


A woman's soul is like a chestnut.





She needs a job.




There's no need to hire her permanently, okay?






























[ Women Talking ]









Aren't you at work?











It was, I think, a normal job.
Work?




That kind of job would suit you.











[ Women Talking ]
































- Pick it up, Lily, darling.
















Lost your job at the cabaret?
















Lily, darling.





























Don't listen to him, darling.


























Really!




































- Sing something, darling.






























We want to offer you a job.

It's gonna be a job, pretty constant.












We'll have rehearsals every night.




An angry man gave me a job.
It's great, isn't it?































Truth be told, he really likes the idea of a new show.

Oh, but I didn't know it was a job.















It's wiser in the morning.


"Tomorrow is wiser."
And another morning... and another and another morning with this audience.







I wonder... well, when a man wants to get drunk, his friends, instead of supporting him, do everything they can to make him sober up fast. Why?







Sometimes at each other's expense.








A sign of infantileness, isn't it?






























Well, it's true.







































- [ Child ] Me too.
- [ Woman ] Me too.


































Monsieur Corvier said she was playing at the Dubois Hotel last night.





"The last performance tonight"?














You love Mark, don't you?





















Well, an experienced woman knows how to get a man to ask her.






- Oh, really!














The song of love is a fun song, because we love it, and it's true.












































































You're pretty tight here, aren't you?














It's all gonna come to you because you want it so bad, and with that desire, a lot of people count, right?






















































































































This kid's an idiot.

And she's not a kid anymore.



















































I didn't have a real friend until you showed up.























It's very expensive.











































Is that true?

































Joey's very smart for his age, knows all about horses, doesn't think about anything else.
I've never seen a child so obsessed with horses.
































































I'm going for one day, I'll be back tomorrow night.






But, Mom... tomorrow I was going to Coney Island with my friends!








- I don't want to be in charge! I want to go to Coney Island with my friends.
















I'm lucky to have such wonderful kids.

















































































































































































































































































Of course not, it's your first job.

























































There's a playground under the bridge for lost children.

















Why did the waterfall have to bring me here at 5:00 in the morning?









Good morning.
- Good morning.
















































Let him show you the bungalow, darling.






























































Give it to me, darling.













Ready, darling?





































































































































After that, I changed jobs. Then Korea.





















































































































I shouldn't have left him alone, especially after last night.






















































Do you have any friends?














Why didn't your friends give you a ride?













Doctor, I need to talk to her.
Come tonight. Then she'll wake up.



























- He's been running around all morning.

























What happened, darling?


































Help me pack, darling.



















- Really?










































At least I can go somewhere, get a job, get a job if you help me.

































So, at 5:00 a.m., right here. Okay?




Here, honey, take this.
















































































He's running pillow fights at home with the kids.
Come on, darling.








And now, friends.
























































































- Here you go, darling.
























Mary, we're not going to the party until I find my cufflinks, and if we don't go to the party, I can't show up at work anymore.




























































































- Honey, please...

























And the kids, they're not puppies, they're people.












Kids, don't judge Dad too hard.













George, do you think the kids are gonna be okay without Nana?














And how can our children become adults when you're still a child?













I really thought you were taller...



Although, really, I've never thought about it before.














She ran away from me last night.

























































































































If your friend's around, you're gonna get wings all of a sudden.












- Good morning, friends!



















- Good morning, Captain.





























































































































































































































































So, dear princess, here's my offer.





You'd better tell me, my dear. As soon as the tide starts, it'll be too late.
























































I'm afraid we lost our dear captain.




































Because of a woman.















Jealous women do anything.
















































Squaw, hold the baby.









That's why I'm asking you, my dear, to tell Peter I don't want to hurt him.




So it's true.


Don't judge Peter so hard, my dear.




We're leaving in the morning.









Oh, my God! You're right, Smee. What, my dear?








Go on, my dear.




Thank you, my dear.









Boys, we'll be home in the morning.















































































A thousand apologies, dear, but you don't know our little joke.


I'm picturing our little friend reading a gentle message right now.









































Ladies forward, darling.
































































































- She's still a kid.















Honey, all in good time.















George, darling. Dad.








On the evening of the same day, a reception was arranged at her country's embassy in honor of her.


Sir Hugo Macy De Farmington. Good evening, Sir Hugo.
Good evening, Your Royal Highness.




Prince Istvar Barlos Nojavaros. Good evening.
Their lordship, Baron and Baroness von of Liechtenstein. Good evening...


Good evening, Countess.
Good evening.
Signor and Signora De Camores. Good evening.



















Now, my dear, I'll read the schedule for tomorrow, if you don't mind. So at 8:30, breakfast at the embassy.
























Good evening, charmed, very happy...





My dear, you are not well.
I'll send for Dr. Bannkoven.








I'm going to get the doctor. It's no use.





I'm terribly ashamed, Doctor, and suddenly I'm crying.


Don't worry, Doctor, I'll be more calm than ever.














Thank you, Doctor.



Good night, Your Highness. Good night, Doctor.





























It's just an amazing night.



























Good evening. Where are we going?






















































I'm sorry, honey, but I don't sleep in a night shirt with roses.



























Stay away from poetry, my dear, focus on your pajamas.




















Hey. - Good morning, Joe.





You just showed up for work?






















True, she said the indirect result wouldn't be as direct as the direct result.




They're just fooling us, these royal kids.


















































































Let's shake hands.



























Dear Dr. Bannkoven.





Tell your doctor everything.






Really?

Good morning.
Where's Dr. Bannkoven?






































Really?










Joe, I'm up to my ass at work.

































































































Your friends just don't recognize you anymore. Yeah, that's for sure.



All my friends will be there.







Okay, 800 lire. I'm sorry, but I really don't have any money.
















But the doctor gave me a shot yesterday, and I fell asleep.














Don't you have to go to work?



















Forty years since he got to work.
Forty years in the same job.

What's his job?

It's a very difficult job.




No one leaves this job on their own unless the disease prevents them from doing their duty.






Really?









Yeah, yeah, this is my good friend Irving Radovich.











That's what they say in America when they meet a charming woman.



Mr. Bradley and I were just talking about his work.










































































































The mouth of truth... the legend says that if a liar puts his hand here...














He caught one man and his four children in the middle of the street.








Tell the doctor.





Can we go there tonight?























I've been looking for you all night.






















































Isn't that right?






































If I hadn't fully realized my duty to my family and my country, I wouldn't have come back tonight.





































































Yeah... and that's the mouth of truth.



























It's not God's message what, is it?














































































































































































The fact is, the caterpillar is telling the truth.








Grandpa, is the gossler telling the truth?








He's telling the truth.















Faith is the truth I will serve you.














































Finish the job!































It's not gonna cost us a lot of money.




















































































Go with the golf course, my dear merchant, and in our skin.









































Mother tells the truth.


And even though she's telling the truth, I don't care.






































- And in the morning, he's gonna get divorced.

























































































































































































































Find my sweetheart's friend.


Gold is worth more than iron on the ground.
Ah, no, the bullat is more expensive than iron.





















































































































No, darling, that tan doesn't go away.




To think I have to look for a job.
There's never a job for lazy people.




Rosa, lemonade for the doctor!




















































































Hey, shot! I brought you my friend.




I thought one of your friends was.

And a little bit of my friend.




































- I have a date. - With a woman? What a woman!

















Of course, there aren't many people here who have jobs.


















It takes a good job and it doesn't.








































Luigi, my friend, the nice guy, you'll see. The one you dropped off a long time ago.
Yeah, if I were us, with our job.






Sorry, Brigadier's not allowed to talk at work.

He's obsessed with work. We live together in hibara, he irons and cooks.






















Really, I think so.
Really, I think so.






















































- Good evening, Pepito.
- Good evening.

In honor of my friends.
















I warned you, people like me don't clean each other's faces like dockers, I just shoot.




















He's been out of breath since last night. Thirteen people died, they're relatives.







You can make a good living and leave. It's better to die than rot here! We need experienced drivers for dangerous work.














You need experienced drivers for dangerous jobs, pay's very good.


































"Dear Mother, I finally got a job.






It's very important. Tomorrow morning, put this letter in the mailbox.














































































































































We could sleep, we could eat, we had men, women.





I love society, sitting by the door tonight, drinking beer, talking. About what?



- You don't like women?











































































































































































































It was crazy to take this job at all.


















































































































































































































































































Really?
































I think your friends are a little behind.

































I'm a friend of Starrett's.































We're gonna make it, aren't we, Miriam?














- But it's true.






You know, there's too much work for me to do on my own.






























- Good morning, Joey.
















































































- Last night.













I'll tell you what, we'll all get together tonight, and we'll think about it.




















































































































Ernie's leaving us, maybe. We all agreed to stick together.


























- He didn't let me, did he?

































One thing a married man can't get used to is waiting for his woman.





Take care of yourself and find yourself a woman you'd expect, too.







- Good morning.


















Even women were taken to defend themselves.









My woman wants us all to meet for the 4th of July.



























Go back to the women and children where you feel safe.









































You might have friends here you don't know about.




















You wouldn't want me to run away, would you?





















I'm not gonna stand behind a woman's back while the Rikers are making a mess.






You're gonna kill each other like that.































Isn't that right, Shane?




















- Really?
































Wake up the kids and scare the wife half to death.











































































- Yeah, I get it, honey.













Well, look at this woman in her wedding dress.









































































It's a fast night.





































- Is that your friend?










































Good evening, ma'am.





Offer a job to someone else.


























Are those men who did all the dangerous work and risked their skins without rights?









































































And then come back and tell your friends we'll wait for them if they're looking for trouble.


















































































It's gonna be a beautiful morning.















I'm shooting, put the kids in the back.














Wives and children.



















































































It's better this way, isn't it, Shane?












Your brother is responsible for the murder of my friend Torrey.






















































Please, darling, play outside.

































You can't decide whose life is worth more.
You're going to fight for this shack, this land, where there's nothing but work?



It's not true, you love this house more than I do.

- Even if it's true, it doesn't change anything.































































We haven't heard a word from your friend yet.


















































































From tomorrow, it will be called "Woman Without Destiny."


They have to rewrite the first scenes by tomorrow morning.
I can't interrupt work to let them sleep!

































You've really had your success without being too modest...
















Tell me what's going on this morning.













There's something I have to pay for my success, and I've paid even more for it.



































































































Did I play the rocky woman well?



































































The doctor said at least two months about work and nothing to think about.




I'm not exaggerating, the doctor said that.

It's the same job as the others. There's no difference.
























- Good evening, gentlemen.
- Good evening, Remo.



Good evening.
Good evening, Simonette. Hey.





















































- Good evening!
- Good evening.

Dear Nardo, I thought you were in Greece.









I've agreed to make this film in 40 days, I've adapted to impossible working conditions!













































In the end, tell me the truth. You're very good in Rome, besides your career.




































- It's great, isn't it?
Operator's work is amazing!








If Clara were in this scene and the others you know very well and I only saw this morning, would your wife be?



















Now I should say I admire your work, but to tell you the truth, I haven't seen any of your movies.





















































- When do I get back to work?

Will be cleaned up, new people, friends.



Good evening, Clara. Welcome.
- How are you? - Good evening.

















I asked him this morning.


























Sorry, honey, you've become a mistress, so come on.







Don't you think "Woman without destiny" didn't help your career or reputation?


I think I gave you everything a young woman could want.
- I'm bored. Really.



















I'll read it tomorrow morning before you wake up. I promise you.


















It's... the story of a woman... the story of a girl...
- Good afternoon. - Hey, honey.






































After all... she was a woman, too!










I'm sorry, Clara, but it's true.


































































- Good evening.





















- I'll leave immediately, tonight.





















Even worse, because outsiders can be more honest with each other.














I wish it wasn't true, but it's true, and you always knew it.





























- Darling, I've willingly helped you. And I'd be happy to stay in business if it were business.

















A place where I think, if two people come here and talk, they eventually have to understand each other. Although...












































I want to know how many pills were missing in this package before he used them tonight.













Right, Doctor? - Yes.








It's absolutely necessary to end "Women Without Destiny."
















- Tomorrow morning at 7 o'clock sharp!
























































































































- Yeah? I gave her the job I could.








- After such a happy evening...



































































































- No, you were my best friend.

Signorina, is there so much work at this time?













My Clara's still a kid!

























I'm calm and then I'm not a kid!



Yeah, it's true.






















You see, you just have to try to understand each other... and then things will work out.




















The truth.
























- Good evening.




This morning I was the happiest woman in the world, and now...


















At hard times, you have to find the strength to jump into work, Clara.


Are you sure this movie is a job for me?



























































- Hey. - Dear Beautiful.
















You could've called earlier, we're friends.



















- Of course, darling. Whatever you say.



- Hello, darling.


















Asking your husband for a job.






- Good evening.























































That's why I wanted to call you." A thousand and one woman."




















Last year, for example, I was out of work for two months.
I'm not alone, I have a baby.

































































































I'll see you tonight if you want.













See you tonight.

































Caizo should be home from work by then.















Good morning.


Really?
We're finally gonna see all our kids.





Your kids are doing so well.










THE DOCTOR OF THE CHIRAYMA OF TERPARIA AND CHILD WARNING


Good evening.

























































Really?


























































But it's true.

When I was little, she seemed so big that I was ashamed of my friends.















Her husband adopted her child.




























































Really?
















Kids like it there.













Father, I have to see a sick child.








































































Doctor, how's your dad?
By the time you become a doctor, I don't think I'll be here yet.
Enamoto called about the job.






There's no reason to buy them such expensive cakes.










How about Kinsitei tonight?






















Really?















































His friend did it.






















And now there's not much work, and I can take the day off.











He was drinking after work and sometimes, when it was too late, he brought his drinking buddies into the house.





































It's not that expensive.















It's really late.





We have to get up early in the morning and take a walk on the beach.























Yeah, really.


She smoked in bed this morning after he got up.




























Oh, just friends from the village.




















Mom, she's not a kid anymore.



But I'm meeting colleagues tonight.










Really.















If we get lost, we'll never find each other again.








Really?





Tell my friends I'm gonna play pinball, okay?



































You're lucky all your kids are on their feet.







It's hard to lose children, but it's hard to live with them, too.




If I had an extra bedroom, we could drink until morning.









































But all doctors have a degree.
I'm afraid we expect too much from our children.



















I'm not happy with my kids, either.















































































I brought your friends.











































Aren't you gonna be late for work?















Thank you very much, darling.
















In the morning, the train will be in Nagoya or Gifu.















You've been so kind to us, children.



No, really.
We live so far apart.














She felt better this morning.













I guess we can go tonight.
We can spend the night here. It'll be easier on the train in the morning.


In ten days, we've seen all our children.

I think some people love their grandchildren more than children.


I love my kids more.
But I'm amazed at how children change.




Children do not live up to their parents' expectations.







Really?
























































Yeah, but I've got work to do.




We can leave tonight.










The kids came to see you.































































This morning at 3:15.









































































































But children are separated from their parents.
A woman has a life unrelated to her parents when she reaches the age of Shige.






But the children are gradually becoming exactly the same.














Really?

















She said she hadn't seen a more kind and responsive woman.




Really?










Really.


You really are a good woman.
Honest woman.












We have our own children. But you've done so much for us, and we're not even blood relatives.



She was a stubborn woman, but if I knew it would happen, I'd be softer with her.











Nice record, isn't it?












Snyder's friend.

















He was a nice guy, he was my friend.



































































































Nothing happened, really nothing.













I wouldn't help any of his friends.









Good job.













































































He's a real doctor, a former doctor.





























































































































It's my job.





And asked him to call a doctor.




























I believe they're telling the truth.


A woman who marries a former criminal may lie for him.













Three men robbed the gas station tonight.



































- She's got a job.

- Are you gonna take her job?
You can keep your job.










































One day's work and I'll drop all charges.





One job like this, and I'm gonna be your favorite rat for the rest of your life running around the slums, listening to gossip, reporting everything I've heard.





I like cigarettes, but the doctors say I shouldn't smoke them.








On the way, I'm gonna go to the store where your wife works, and I'm gonna tell her she can pick you up tonight.






I'm not gonna regret this guy coming back to work.

If I could marry the engines, I'm sure he would never marry a woman.














Old friends at his alma mater.


Nice house, pretty wife and work.







Make some dinner, Stevie's friends are hungry.


















It's true. The police asked me not to leave here.


















Do you have overtime?












How long did it take you to be a doctor?
A human doctor, I mean.










Where were you that night?


























We were waiting in an ambush, Doctor.


I want you to go to Steve Lacey's apartment tonight and accuse him of snitching on you.






It all depends on how you do this job.











I think Steve told you all about his old friends and their jokes.























I'm doing repairs. Why?

















- Wait a minute, man.































































The woman screamed and he fell apart.













That same night, you take a plane to the airport in Sanland, it'll take five minutes to work.

There's no watchman there from 12:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.





You're right, and the whole world's wrong, full of lowlifes, idiots, stupid enough for a job like this.














































































































































































Wait till you see the job, Steve.








She's a sweet, clean kid, Steve.






























He'll meet us at the airport tonight.






























I'll do my job.









I'm always nervous before work.





















We'll take the lollipop from the baby.


















Careful and cold-blooded, good quality for work.


































































You got a wife, a job, a bank account.


























Police work to protect citizens.








Go back to your three rooms, your work, grocery bills, taxes, children, and other life risks.






















































































Honey, don't screw yourself up.













I'll find another job.

You have a very good job.








We'll finish one job, and we'll go to the next one.
















Isn't it beautiful?
























Sorry, man.






































Really, that's great!









































































It's worth $170 more plus tax, but it's worth it.














































The trailer brakes are your best friends.











































Don't be afraid, darling.




















































































































































"Mrs. Nicholas Collini." Honey.












































































Why don't you call a doctor?







Neighbors are supposed to help each other in trouble.












Mr Collini, can I show your trailer to the kids and your husband?


Look, darling.























It'll be like a pickle in the morning.








Hello, darling. Good morning.


































We'll take the car to town and bring the tow truck in the morning.


































It's okay, honey, I'll make you something.
















































What are you doing, honey?









































Honey!


















































































































































Good morning.

It's nice weather, isn't it?








Really, Mother?




































Isn't it beautiful?































Stop it, darling.





















I'm serious. You're shitting me, darling.


























Someone's got to keep an eye on the road.









Only a woman who's made up her mind like that...










Look, what kind of park were you talking about this morning?





Good evening.


Isn't there any more? None at all, friend.










You're not going anywhere. Really?

















What, honey?































Nothing, darling.
































































































































































I guess I was rude, but you do understand, don't you?








































So this woman met someone who knew her brother but didn't know where her brother was.




I didn't mean to lie to you, really.






























































No, honey, don't say that.


No, darling, it's not for nothing...






























The next morning, the town's gonna go to the kingdom, telling the people of the Prince's will.























The calith opened up and the kids came in.


















By giving Gretel a job, an evil witch put Ganzel in a geese cage she fed for Sunday dinner.







- Come on, let's get to work!




















































She left her friends behind, and she was all alone.
























- I'll give you your ball back if you promise to be my friend.



- Now I can be your friend!



The princess told me how the Frog gave her back the gold ball and how she gave her promise to be her friend.




- You promised to be my friend and let me eat with you.


- A friend has to sit down at the table.















































































































































































































- You'll always be as young to each other as you are today.



























































































































- There's gonna be magicians here tonight, and Kashnor's gonna be among them, too.












































Outside the palace, children were born, they grew up and had children themselves, but there was a dream in the palace.







The princess and the prince fell in love and the sleeping curse left the palace in haste.


























































At home, with me and your dear mother, you had all the best.



























Yeah, it's true.

















































My friends!
My old friends!






















Sometimes when I was working, my heartache and my sense of loneliness took hold of me like a plague.




































My little friends.

I don't know what you're called, but you're my little friends, right?

























































Friday, Master, friends. Friends.




If the cannibals didn't show up till morning, he could have eaten me himself.

They weren't really looking for their missing friends.













































Didn't finish the job.


















That you're a friend.













I want you to be my friend.





Friday was a loyal friend that anyone would envy.



















































Friends?































If we return the ship, you will take me and my friend to England.






























It's a gift to our friends waiting outside.










Soon you'll be able to untie each other, it'll take you about an hour of painful work, but by then we'll be leaving.








I swear, you're gonna pass through the night.

Isn't that right, Riton?


Our number's really good.








What's the matter, we're not gonna be served? Good evening, gentlemen.
















Good evening, Madame Bush.

- Good evening.

Good evening, Max. Hello, Marco.






















































Good evening, madam. Good evening, madam.
























































He's only interrupting his work.






A real friend.




If he likes someone, it's a friend for life.




He and I are friends, too.






















Now, when that number probably depends on her career, you shouldn't ruin her night like this.

















































































































































































Remember last night?















You really don't understand why they came here at 2:00 a.m. and offered to do business with them?






















































Thank you, dear friend, thank you.


















It's your job.
























- I don't drink in the morning.































































































- But I have a job.


























I told them their friend was coming up.





























Good evening, Piero.





Yeah, it started last night. And this morning, they kidnapped Reaton.















































































































Good evening, though. Good evening.















































What's your prognosis, Doctor?










- Six in the morning.



- See you later, Doctor.













































































Don't hire him, friends.











































Is it true that the departure was cancelled?

The whole team escaped this morning.









At least our dear guest will still be in San Francisco.




































Professor Aronax of the Paris Museum told us the terrible truth about the inhabitants of the deep sea.



































Is that true?
It's true.




















































I'll tell you, friends, one incredible story.



The story is incredible, but it's pure truth.





But one night, the flame of her love faded.


I'll tell you, friends, one incredible story.



The story is incredible, but it's pure truth.







I'll tell you, friends, one incredible story.



The story is incredible, but it's pure truth.









I'll tell you, friends, one incredible story.



The story is incredible, but it's pure truth.




















































































































































































































It's true.




It's delicious, isn't it, Professor?





















































I like that you didn't think life was too expensive for the love of your companions.













Well, now I'm gonna keep the fish out of work.




A couple who's trying to keep up are your friends.




















































































I just think that Ned's life is more important than scientific discoveries, that's all.












It's lovely, isn't it?

















They fight, tear each other apart.


















































I don't know how you feel, Professor, and I feel like my friend was stabbed in the back.

































































We need each other.
Ned, I want to be your friend.
"I want to be your friend." I want to escape.



Is that true?














Really?
































































Really, the oysters are dark.












I thought we were friends.
Of course, friends!




Now we're friends.
























We'll be off the tide by tonight.































































































































































































Incredible story, but it's true.


































Isn't that right, Esmeralda?










































Do you really think they'll lay down their weapons and destroy camps where people work like slaves?



That knowledge cost me the lives of the most precious people, that power is still in my hands.





































Hey, you upstairs! We're friends!

I'm telling you, we're friends!

Hey, we're friends!






















































Don't give up, friends!



























































Old men and children.






Maybe she does love Masai, but any Indian will give a good ransom to marry her.



As long as the Indians are around, I have a job.

























































Good evening.
Good evening.
Good evening.

















It's a scary dog, isn't it?




















We're friends.








- Then the Cherokees are a woman.
I'm not a woman.











You have a woman and you carry water?













































































Even the kids are old.
But growing grain is a woman's job.

No one's gonna call me a woman.



Our women are made for men.







Mr. Weddle pays you to work?






Women think with their hearts, not with their heads.

A bag of grain is a bad price for a woman.




































Do you think it's true?
























































- You saved us, we're friends.
- I don't have any friends.

















































































Shoot. Killing a woman will make you braver and stronger.














































I'm just a woman.
I'm made to have children, cook, sew.

























A woman believes in what she wants to believe.





































































I was sure of him when the woman showed up.































It's hard for a woman.


I stole them this morning.






Isn't it beautiful?



Don't teach me, woman.


































































- Really?




























- I hope your mother gets better, darling.






































- You're the first person I know tonight.



Oh, honey!



































































































- Honey, it's great to see you without your wife.









Really?


















Did she get the job?


























I didn't expect to see... such a beautiful young woman.
















- Really?
































They're my old friends.


I spilled drinks on the first day of work.
























Oh, my friend, a friend I used to work with, brought her in a couple of weeks ago... and asked me to give her a job.






















































- Good evening, Mr. Denver.


















































- Really?
- I really have my name... but I think it's stupid to use it if that's how I get... a lot more attention, and that's why I'm so imagining it.










































Can you hold on a second, darling?















































I take it you're not too impressed tonight.







A man hangs out with another woman... and then realizes he's been in love with his wife the whole time.




















Family friend, of course.



























- How'd it go tonight?








- Good morning, Miss.
- Good morning.


































- Hello, darling.














































































We've been married for seven years... and if you'll excuse my old-fashioned expression... still love each other.















































No, not even Peter with his chastity toward women... didn't notice how involved he was in this mess.


Because you and Iris are my friends... and I can't keep quiet... when these tragic events happened here.










A very strong woman.

















- Come here, darling.

Which is it, isn't it?
It was true, it was okay... but I was wondering who would believe it.




























Did you tell us last night that Mr. Denver gave you $10... and asked you not to talk about Miss Ordway's presence in his apartment?




I thought you and Miss Marin were friends.















How was she dressed that morning?










Yeah, well, she took a little nap this morning.








Do you mind telling us one of the stories that... told us last night?














This woman must be out of her mind.











You let this woman accuse me of seducing a girl... of a false promise to marry and then bring her to suicide... without giving me the slightest chance to get her back.


I, of course, deny all this because it's not a word of truth.

Well, I guess that woman's a neurotic.


- It's our job.


























- I want to know why your sister lied about me this morning.

Miss Ordway may have lied to you, Miss Amberley, or where you took this story... because there's not a single word of truth in it.




























- Is that true, Miss Amberley?





After all, the girl was alone in the apartment... and she just decided... to get some sleep instead of work that morning.

So, what about this woman?

I lied to the detective that night.

But after what you heard this morning... I don't see the need to protect him any further.









- Thank you, darling.





















We'll see which one of us is a fool when our young hero... tries to lift the curtain tomorrow night.

















"My dear Iris.





















Lucia, other women, Nenny Ordway, they're all lying to you.
But it's true, honey.














You really think so?

Don't you think it's okay to screw around with another woman?





Understanding that if you catch me with another woman... you're gonna whip my neck.










But you have a contract, darling.

I can, if Dr. Harstone tells you to... leave for health reasons, can't I?





































What's his reputation for women?























To tell you the truth, Mr. Mullen...




- We all want the same thing - the truth.






















































































Now I want you to tell me something, including the truth.





























Did she tell you she was gonna have a baby?










































































Why would she have a kid if she could have you?





Who did she have a baby from?















































































































Oh, honey.






































Right here, darling.




Of course, darling.


















Really?
















You have no idea what it's like to be married to a woman like Lottie... but I'll tell you.










Not that I want to tell the truth.













- And the baby?

I didn't know about the baby until that day.











- Listen, darling--
- Please, darling.






- You know that, honey, but I told you why it's impossible.
This needs to be overcome, Brian, because we're gonna have a baby.


Nenny, darling... if there was a good opportunity for us...


I'm gonna get the money-- so much money that you're gonna be able to leave this woman... and never worry about it again.


I'm gonna send a letter to his lawyer about our baby.












Peter's my friend.
He was your friend.





- Listen, darling--

"The girl gave birth to Carlotta Marin's husband."











There was nothing I could do, darling.


And, nevertheless, it's true, Miss Marin.








According to this version, she wanted to attribute the baby to Mr. Denver, an idea he said Mr. Mullen was protesting.
































You love me, don't you?




We're gonna have a home and a baby.
















Please, darling.








I'm sorry, honey.

- It's true.
Downstairs, in the apartment, alone, a young woman... who wanted to tell your wife that you were the father of her child.










- It's true you're back downstairs, isn't it?














But he was my friend.


I'd rather be treated as an unfair, jealous, angry woman.




































Really, it wasn't for long.










































Please, darling.




































I found this in your kitchen this morning, Miss Marin.



























































In the square, friends.


In the square, friends.

In the square, friends.



I'm selling woolly clothes in the square, friends.
















































































Really?






It's not hard, is it?








You have a great job, and you're engaged to a beautiful girl.






















































































































Good morning, Fiona!

- Good morning, Miss Fiona.
- Good morning, Mr. Beaton.









Friends, your attention, please!
































- Good morning.
- Good morning.






























































It's my wedding day, friends.











Tonight, Miss Jean Campbell.















Yeah, friends.














And every night at 10:00, I met her in a weaving shop.






















































I really didn't remember.






































- Good morning, darling.








































- Good morning, Fiona.
































I'm gonna have to get some rope for tonight's decorating.






























































Now sit down and write under the name of my dear dead wife.



























































Can you give me one reason why I, a stranger... should propose to you, a completely foreign woman... at this time of day?



























































There's gonna be a wedding tonight.














"Children:





























































































They were no doubt terrible, destructive women.













And early on Wednesday morning, right after midnight... he climbed the hill outside Brigadoon... and prayed to God.



People will lead their normal lifestyle... but every time they wake up in the morning... it'll be 100 years later.


















































To me, it's like the night is carrying me... to the farthest cloud... and there I'm floating until morning.














All it takes... is that they promise to love each other... while they're both alive.














Fiona, is that true?























































We'll wait till morning.







He'll be fine in the morning.




Yes, darling.













Tommy, honey.



















Eating cows in the morning, growing vegetables... sticking ropes, rubbing oil.








What about his friend Jeff?

Tonight he was running through the woods for a hot Scotsman... who could have made all these people disappear... if he had crossed the wrong street.



















And you're willing to leave your family, your friends, your life for this?






































It's not fair to the kids.
Honey, I'm sorry I'm late, but I've had a terrible day.

























Yes, darling.



















Good evening, Mr. Albright.







Albright, how about we meet this morning?












- Good evening, Mr. Albright.





The woman most hates her fiancé's best friend.



I mean, look inside any woman's soul, and she's gonna love it.







































Honey, I'd like you to be with me this weekend.











I don't think you want that, do you?











































You're beautiful, darling.







































































































Bring the other 200 tonight, or I'll only pay you half.
































- Good morning, madam.

























I have a job to do.






















- How's the job going for the minister?


I promised to do my job by tonight.





















Truth be told...








Welcome home, darling.


























































Mohei, why do these people have the right to commit adultery... and if a woman is caught?


















Make sure you get it done by tonight.












Your brother is having trouble working like most people are.


















Mr. Minister was very pleased with your work.




You're the only one I can trust with an important job.






















































- You two seem close.















































































































You came to spend the rest of the evening with me?

















Osan, you know what a woman of your class should do!















































































































































It's Theica Fujivira's job.





Is that true what they say?



With the help of his high-ranking friends, he will be able to enter the samurai class.

He didn't tell the authorities anything, did he?


















- It's true.





























































But he was with a woman, wasn't he?













































































- Is that true? Maybe it's just rumors.









Beautiful day, isn't it?














Are we gonna make it to the village by tonight?













Really, I'm happy.
















































- Really?









































As a kid, I've been here a lot, dreaming I'd go to Kyoto and become rich.







































Is that true, sir?








But I've learned an important lesson: to marry a faithful woman.










Tomorrow, the Kyoto authorities will come for you. Is that true?
















































































































This morning after you called, all I told him was that you were writing detective novels and that one day we'd already met.




Honey, I already understand, and I'm not gonna love you any less.




Really?

The night I came by to say goodbye to you.




He said he decided to quit tennis and get a job.















Tony and I were gonna spend the weekend out of town at friends'.



































I'm gonna talk to Tony about us tonight.








Looks like it's gonna be a great night.
We're looking forward to a fountain of courtesy towards each other.





Sorry, honey.


- Good evening.


















There's work for a few hours.













- I'd love to. By the way, what are you doing tomorrow night?
















Have a nice evening.












Good evening.



















































































I remember you used to smoke a very expensive cigar in college.














I left them in a box in my room. The box was gone by morning.
















































Her friend lived in Chelsea.


If two people love each other, it's obvious.



















My wife's friend was called back to New York.
















































Do they find work?
Do former friends help them?
What if they never had any friends?

And that night, I followed you to your house.



































She was in love with you. Really?






























I'll tell the cops you followed your wife to Chelsea and saw her friend make her spaghetti.

























By the way, does Mrs. Van Dorne know that you were both Adams and Wilson and Miss Wallace's friend?










In a few minutes of work, no risk.




All the newspapers wrote about it." A middle-aged woman died of an overdose of some drug."

But we know that, don't we?























Tomorrow night.








Tomorrow night, Holliday and I, my wife's friend, will go to the party.



















































































I still have a lot of work to do.
One second, darling, I think someone's here.









Who is he? Another friend of yours?






Run, darling.







Beautiful, isn't it?














































- Tonight?













Can you get the ticket on Saturday night?



















Tony, come on. Don't be such a kid.


























Nothing, darling.















Bye, darling.




























It's me, darling.




































































































Sorry, honey. We'll talk about it later.

























Good morning, ma'am.
- Good morning.







Good morning.
Good morning, sir. I'm Chief Inspector Hubbard, Chief of Investigation at our precinct.























His name, really, is hard to figure out.

















































- I'm afraid so, darling.




















































































































































I had to, darling.
The chief flew to Brussels this morning.



















































Now all you have to say is the truth about the man killed and what happened yesterday.
















- I'm afraid it's true, Tony.












































It's funny, really.



Goodbye. It's okay, honey.





























































































Thousands of husbands and wives bequeath capital to each other and do not kill each other.



























Then it's definitely not gonna be much like the truth.





















































Really?

















































Is that true, Mr. Wendice?












































You really want to know?








The next morning, she showed me this money-- a suitcase of one pound bills and said, "If anything happens to me, the money shouldn't be found."



































































































He was supposed to visit me this morning, but I was told he couldn't.



























This morning, while your husband was away from home, I came to see the bank statements.

















































- What, honey?



































































Explain it to the court in the morning.




























Give me "known work as chaplains," right?

Specialized in apartment fees for missionary work.




















































My friend needs a driver.













She comforts a scattered child.




































































































































































































































































































































When I was a kid, I was infused with religion, like an ostrich grain goose.

When you were a kid, you thought like a kid.
You thought like a child.


We're wasting each other's time.







- To tell you the truth, I like it.
























Have fun, my friend.
























































































































































I have a lot of good friends in the news world.




















































































































































































































































Because Lady Warren is a very beautiful woman.










































My old friend Viconte de Verdigrie is the only one alive who can help you.









































Tonight I have a date with the Duchess de Harmon.




































Tell me, my friend.





















































I'll take you there in the morning.
He may not be there in the morning.






































































When the woman grabbed the bow, the other damned souls reached out, too, but she cried out to them: "Let go!





You're just a kid.




























I spoke to the Home Secretary this morning.









Beautiful, isn't it?
















































































































I'll fish. And go to work. And sometimes going to the movies at night.




























Don't worry, darling.
- You'll find another job.
- What job?





Don't worry, darling. I worked before the wedding.
- I'm going back to work.







He has many friends among high-ranking railway officials.











































Women spend a lot of time dressing up. It's necessary.



















Only faces are different so we can get to know each other.






What happened to my job?













Honey, next time, don't fight with him. - Yeah, obviously.

You only told me about your job.














You wanted your job?










I wasn't thinking about hours, I was just thinking about getting your job back.







He's got a bear's skin in front of the fireplace. And we've been down there all night.



Everything? What happened this evening?











Yeah, it's true!







Honey? - Carl.







































It's not your compartment, is it?










The driver is a friend of mine.























Friend. You seem like a geisha from the rising moon's tea house.










Carl introduced it to me this morning.



























What would you do if there weren't any women to sew your buttons on?
If there were no women, we'd walk naked.








































































I don't care when my friends are dancing with Vicky.















Owens was an old friend of my family.
Thanks to his help, Carl was restored to work. I wanted to thank him.




























































- That's what they say about women.




It's not easy for a girl to move from work to work.

But I thought it wasn't that important. No woman is happy.










I don't think I'm worth anything as a woman or as a wife. Really? Everyone makes mistakes.
Mistakes in work, in marriage.


































- Let's see if it's true.





















You came late last night, didn't you?








It's not good that you're dating a married woman.

























I got Carla back at work. Carl killed Owens that night.













Why didn't you tell me the truth?






I want to know the truth. Because if I don't go to the police...













He beat me and beat me, so I told him it was all true.

It was awful, but trust me, I'm telling you the truth.
If he was so jealous, why did he tell you to ask Owens for a job?

His job was the only thing he cared about.































































































You never told the truth, not even about Owens.















I thought it would be different with you. That you trust me as a woman you love.












Where are you going, Vicki? I know a lot about work, drinking and playing.








You lost me, your job, your letter, everything. - It's Warren.
You're going to him, aren't you?







































It's been a long time, hasn't it?












- Absolutely, darling!















- Yes, Sheila, my dear!










































Of course you're right, darling.


































































































- Only women, sir.






















If that happens, the factory's gonna have to close and you're gonna lose your jobs.





Then go and find another job.

What do we have to do with that freedom if we can't find another job?
























































This afternoon, a young woman took poison and then died in hospital.






































She was out of work for the next couple of months.






I was just there this morning, and I got you something, by the way.

















It was the last good job of her life.



































































So, as we found out, Eva Smith lost one job at the will of your father.
She lost her next job because of...























































You look tired, darling.






























He's just a kid!
In the eyes of our mothers, we remain children forever, Mrs. Berling.

















- Yeah, it's true.
































Yeah, it's a woman's favorite place... of a certain kind.
Women of a certain kind?








- I'm guessing Joe Maggoty's not your friend?




































You didn't have lunch, did you?
- No, I don't think so.















- No, really, I'm fed up.

























































































































- It feels great, doesn't it?



That's the best I've heard of tonight.












































Just a little bit so you can hold on until you get a good job.
Don't worry about me, I won't be out of work.



















Now we're gonna have to get to know each other again.











































- Isn't that the kind of organization that can get the support of women in distress?



























- Is that true?














































































Have you tried finding a job?





I'm having a baby.
Come here, my dear.


































For letting my dad and me throw her out of two jobs?









- You're acting like a spoiled kid, Sheila!








If that's true, Mrs. Birling, we know what to do with him-- you just said...

















































































Greetings, my good friend!







My friends call me "The Burling Businessman."



Really?



And I wasn't even there when I fell asleep at work.
I'm so bored at work this afternoon that I'm just gonna have to have a little fun with the guys at night, or I'm gonna have a headache.





















It's really time for you to go home.
















Until one night she told you something had happened.













I was really hoping to hear that.














































I was the father of this child, and I had to do everything I could for them.



















































Her and the baby!
My baby!




































You and I have always beenn't much of a brother and sister, have we?








- I'm not going to. Really.







- You know that, don't you?

Good evening, Mr. Croft.

Good evening.








































































































































































- Leave it to me, darling.







































I've never seen a woman who's stronger than a man.





It's amazing, but I obey a woman... and more amazingly, it gives me pleasure!







We've got a pretty good order for explosive work in the mountains. Wait until the storm subsides.



And we've dedicated ourselves to each other.







My friends have influenced you.


































Look at the truth.









































The truth has come out!


































But I've met people who have a weakness-- whiskey... and women.


























Killing people like Fox and his friends.






We came here after work... rest, drink and play, as usual on Fridays.










Don't be afraid to tell the truth.



























































I don't like losing friends. That's how the world works.












Just what you see, man.























A man who can't hold a glass should drink like a baby from a bottle. Open your mouth, guitar.





























You're my only real friend.



































You hired me to work.
Did you come here just for a job?












And when a woman stumbles one day, she's a whore!










It's the most touching speech a woman's ever heard.













































No woman is worth it.













































As many women as you are.
























































































































He awakens a woman in it, and she's afraid of it.








































Intuition tells me we're gonna get a visit tonight.
The same people we saw last night.












































































































I was right about this woman. I understood her right when he showed up.













Wake up! 'Cause you're gonna find yourself, your women and your children trapped between the barbed wire and the fence.






























What were you doing at the bank this morning?






































Tell me the truth, or you won't even make it to trial.









Really! We just want it.








































Not the woman.


















You're shooting each other.
Who do you care about?



He didn't even look like a simple friend...
He was more than a friend.






































My name is Bart. All my friends call me Bart.




































Yeah, that's my name, man.





Anything for friends.






















































































You're like a child!
Worse than a woman.














"You are the woman of my life..."

My dear Andre, you speak words that you do not understand.

































































Isn't he at work?
- I've got friends coming to see me.





You've got to be kidding me with your friends.































































































She's coming back tomorrow morning.



















- I can't be with you all night...












I've known a lot of women, Pat...





























One beautiful evening, I took this disgusting thing into these hands and threw it into the fire! Poof!


















No, really?

Monsieur Ripua, even the simplest job requires intelligence, and at least attention.
Miss Wilson, I have to ask you to watch Mr. Ripua do his job.














Among all these women I met on the street, there must have been one that was meant for me, Andre Ripoua.


Perfect woman.


But following a woman is even more pleasant.


Sometimes at the last moment, I changed my mind and kept walking my way...

But there was this type of woman I wasn't interested in...
women who only look for money from men...












































- Hurry up, my dear, if you want to put the furniture in place before nightfall.
























You might say it wasn't a reason to go around another woman right away.





























Thank you for this beautiful evening.











Darling... be careful.










































Really?






























































You're quitting your job.







And in the evenings, when I return home, I will see my dear,































Dear Andre!

















"Honey, take care of yourself."




But then it was hard for a Frenchman to find a job in London.















































You're not bored, my dear, are you?























Are you really very hungry?

Really...























She really wanted to introduce me to her friends.




Good evening.
- Good evening, Marcel. - Good evening, Dick.

- Good evening.

I want you to meet my friend Andre.










You gonna offer your friends a drink?



























- You didn't like my friends?








When you get a job, you'll give it to me.





- They don't look for good jobs in newspaper ads.





I'm at least nice, aren't I?
To think we didn't know each other a week ago...
Strange, it takes so little time to love each other.







































"Cade-Shennonso" is a beautiful name, isn't it?






























And you demanded tonight--






























- I'm very glad that my job has been rated...






















Really?








I've started a lot of translation work...
















































You're the woman of my life, Pat, you.



















Tonight again...



Was he really from Edinburgh?



And you want women to believe you...




Really?







- Don't laugh! I told you the truth, I swear to you!
























- My friends.


















- No, my dear Andre.































Really, nothing.



My darling!








- No, honey. Your turn to carry...

- But you've been driving him since morning, you're tired.

























































































































But my mom raised ten kids for a pay-as-you-go pension.
At 16, I licked my heels asking for work.







And if everyone else drops off a little bit to get a job...




















The job isn't hard if you don't flip, but you don't fuss.
Hey. You've got a friend.






































































If I die, you'll know I was your friend.




















































































To mess with it is to hurt your friend.















Jimmy Collins, you were Joe's friend.

I was his friend, but what do you want?






















It's for them to knock, for you to tell the truth, isn't it?




















































Everybody loved Joe. And kids and old people.







































































































































I know a place where women have a separate entrance.








Were you really a boxer?












People should be interested in each other.
















Really?





































































































Johnny told me to kill Joe, didn't he?






Forget the truth.


Dad says you're one of Johnny's people - it's true.





















Really, nothing serious.

























Easy work's over.






















Doctors............................................
Not a doctor, a priest.








Joe Doyle took the godmother's torment for the truth.









Every morning, when the boss gives out the outfits,














Love for money, for easy work... is stronger than love for neighbor.
































































Ida called this morning.





























































I gave him a non-dust job, and where's the gratitude?






































I need a job... and a little work, that's all.






Six cents... every 100 pounds of cargo, non-dust work, but makes a profit.






The truth is harder.



















































































































































Do you promise to tell the truth and only the truth?



Mr. Malloy, is it true that the night Joe Doyle died... you saw him last?

Is it true that you...





Is it true that Fredley openly claimed that he had to remove Doyle in order to keep control of... of the unions?













You're not gonna find a job, you're gonna get kicked out of everywhere, and you're gonna starve to death.







Whose friend are you?



My friends turned their backs on me.
Are they sure they're friends?




































































You killed Joe, and Dougan, and Charlie was your friend.



























Guys, let's get to work.

















































Okay. Let's get to work.
























































































































Obviously, she has a generous friend who's on his way.








































He'll spare us a lot of unnecessary work alive.






























- 7:00 in the morning. - Yes.












You just don't like women, Rick.



















My parents hated each other.





As a child, I promised myself that when I grew up, I would have a lot of money.




I don't think I've spoken very well about women.























He's my friend.
Harry Wheeler doesn't have any friends.



So you're a friend of Harry's?




























I told you he didn't have any friends.

































































I had a headache this morning.



See you tonight.









So many kids in the neighborhood.








































I really appreciate it.




































































































I've heard that twice this morning.





























They'll probably be out till morning.












Good evening.
















Female 1: Dispatcher:


Female 2: Patrol dispatcher:













- Your job, that's what it is.

























































































No, really, I know your face.






I don't impose, I really think we've met.


























He was seen at an East Side pharmacy tonight.

























































































































Woman : Look. Something's happened.












Call us.







































It's my job.








You did your job.










































































You really think Paddy killed himself?




















































































Tonight he killed Wheeler and threw his body outside.





















































We'll be back in the morning.


















A woman called.













































When you wake up in the morning, do you still feel tired?


























































I hope the news is good next time. I said good morning. Oh, good morning.






Hello, darling.

































I love neighbors like my own children.














She's a beautiful young woman, and you're a healthy man.





Every man is ready for family life if he meets a suitable woman.
And Lisa is the right woman for any man who has half a brain and one eye.







- She's just not my woman.






She's from the highest society, Park Avenue, from among expensive restaurants and literary meetings with cocktails.





I need a woman who...





Get away from me, perfect woman. You're too good for me."
Mr. Jeffrey, I'm an uneducated woman, but I'll tell you one thing, when a man and a woman meet and like each other, they have to come together, bam, like cars run into each other on Broadway, not study each other under a microscope.






We used to meet, we love each other, we get married.
Now they read a mountain of books, hide themselves in empty words, and analyze each other to such an extent that a romantic meeting turns into a civil service exam.















Honey.


















































- Good evening, Mr. Jeffrey.























I had a meeting this morning, then I went to Waldorf, had a drink with Madame Dufren. She just arrived from Paris, brought the most recent news.













- Really?




























She's doing the hardest women's job.




















If you're saying all this because you don't want to tell me the truth because you're hiding something from me, then maybe I can figure it out.


































Lisa, in this job, you only ride with one suitcase.











I know someone said it was a pleasure, and now you've opened your eyes to the bitter truth.

























Anyway, not until tomorrow night. It's raining.





































What can he sell at 3:00 in the morning?










What happened this morning?








































Why would a man leave his apartment three times in a rainy evening with a suitcase in his hand and come back three times?


And why didn't he go to work today?











It's not easy to do this kind of work. Why would you start dismembering the human body?






































But it's hard to get away with that, isn't it?




















Thank you, darling.
































I didn't call officially, I called my old friend.
An old, vetted friend.





















































She left the apartment for the first time yesterday morning.

- 6:00 a.m.
6:00 A.M.









- Torwalds, 6:00 a.m.






































'Your Honor, I have a friend, an amateur detective."


There's nothing left in this apartment by morning's evidence, and you know it.







How did we ever get along with each other on this plane for three years during the war? I'm thinking about going to the train station. I'll check Thorwald's version.
































































I've been trying to focus on work all day.

- And you and your friend Doyle.







Women aren't usually that unpredictable.





And then the jewels-- the woman won't keep them in her purse, where they'll all mix up, get confused and scratched.



A woman who goes anywhere other than a hospital always takes makeup, perfume, and jewelry with her.




Honey, I agree with you.

That Mrs. Torwald left yesterday at 6:00 a.m.?


It wasn't Mrs Thorwald, or I don't know women.

- Yeah, they saw a woman, but it wasn't Mrs Thorwald.



I'd like to see your friend's face when we tell him that.





























- On the contrary, darling.

- Really?













































It wasn't Mrs Thorwald with him yesterday morning.

It's just that a woman won't leave her jewelry at home when she's going somewhere.























Maybe it was a woman, but it wasn't Mrs. Torwald.














If a woman goes on a short trip, does she take all her clothes with her?







If I were careful about driving that reconnaissance plane, you wouldn't have a chance to take pictures of the medal you got, the good job, the glory and the money.































We should be happy that the poor woman is alive and well.






















Neighbors respect each other, talk to each other, they care whether you're alive or dead.





























































































































































This is Jeffrey, I'm a friend of Mr. Doyle's.



























At 125 West 9th Street, a man beats a woman. Second floor.




















- Smart woman.




























Don't ruin my night with another crazy killer.











If this woman were alive, the wedding ring would be on her.


He killed a dog last night because she was digging in the garden. You know why?







































Lisa, honey, if anything happened to you...




























If you told me you were leaving work, we wouldn't be married.
Honey, enough about this.

































- Good evening, Father.
- Good evening.


























































































































































Really?

























































































You're not afraid of anything at all, are you?





























- We're old friends.


























She's beautiful, isn't she?








Beautiful, aren't they?


























































































































































You won't be long, will you?









































































































If you do that again, I'll forget you're a woman.


















He treats me like a woman.



I wouldn't throw a child to death... or a woman, even if she was a tramp.


















- Is it true what she said?


He tried to kill my friend, and I shot him.
































But she's really sick, isn't she?







































He said he was protecting a friend's life.










































































You'll do anything to save him, won't you?
You're... friends.







































Haven't you been friends with him in some way?



























I don't like you or your friend, Colby.












































































































































































































- The truth, Harry.



























They're all crazy, aren't they?









Just tell him the truth.































































































Either you or your kids will pay for it!

What's the curse on the kids for?






























Before she got sick, she was my friend and assistant.



















I'm a doctor! They can't force me to continue some absurd family blood revenge.



She took me out of there as a child so I could live in peace.









Especially with women!
























- Dr. Angiano?


























You can see it in the doctor's eyes. You'll be fine soon.


























- As you can see, it's true.






















Truth be told...

















- Now I really believe I'm gonna be okay.











Dr. Angiano is gonna shoot someone or cut them?


Because Angiano and Menchaca have been pissing each other for over a century.





They've always killed each other with wild hatred!








They said people used to kill each other every day.







- Good morning, Don Nemesio!
- Good morning.

















- Good morning!
- Good morning, Tata!




















































































































You don't have to talk to each other at all.



























































































































- Good morning, Don Anselmo.
- Good morning, Don Nemesio.
- Good morning.














Men kill each other in a fair fight.

































Good evening, gentlemen.

- Good evening.


























































My wife, my friends, my village...

















































- Tell me the truth!
































































- Good evening, Donna Maria.
- Good evening.



































Go your way and bury the dead in peace!


Go your way!











After you guys, your friends picked up the case.











- Good morning, Donya Joaquinita.
- Good morning. The doctor hasn't come yet?



So, Doctor?











How is he, Doctor?







Dear Felipe.




I'm having a baby with you.




























You don't have to be friends to walk the same way.





































Just like real friends!























That our child will be born without a father.























































Go and see where the doctor is.






















Yeah, really.



























Dr. de la Garza and his assistant, Dr. Angiano, chair the Polio Committee.




























- Dr. de la Garza wants to talk to you.




































































Of course, it's hard at work...
















- They're the children of your father's friends.








































Good evening, Aunt.















Yeah, they're waiting to see me and Romulo piss each other off.


















































Good evening!

























Good evening!























































Why kill each other?
















I used to hope we could be friends, but now I know it's useless.
















- Of course, my little doctor.








There, by the river, you said we could be friends.




















It was the night before the annual yacht racing. In Long Island, Larrabi's tradition has been a reception over the past 30 years.























































































- Really?







































Dear daddy, or sher daddy, as they say here.
Really, am I getting better at speaking French?

















Good morning, Fairchild. Good morning, sir.












Good morning, Miss McCardle.









Dear David, I would like to remind you that you are Larrabi Industries' junior companion. Our office address:



























Dear Baron, you've outdone yourself!










A happy woman in love burns the souffle.






















Tomorrow night, he's taking me to the social charity ball. And for this occasion, I even have an evening dress.

An incredibly spicy skirt and open shoulders! Good morning, sir.
































































































What's wrong with giving people libraries, hospitals, baseball sites and movies on Saturday night?


















Dear Daddy! I'm gonna graduate next week.
















































































Really?

































Tonight?
You really want to invite me?



























See you tonight.





- David... isn't that something?






They're beautiful, aren't they?
































Really, a beautiful couple!


Young people shouldn't wear white jackets tonight!
















Don't worry. Okay, darling.






























Really?




















How they look at each other!














No, I know you. Good evening, Mrs Larraby.









Really? I decided to invite her, to congratulate her on her return home.


































You're gonna ask the band to play "Really, it's romantic."





































And all of them needed an expensive dentist!













































































































































I invented it myself and took the project to the factory this morning.
































Oh, Sabrina! Tell her we'll be together, only she and I, as soon as Dr. Calloway takes the stitches off.









And my dad's gonna open the bottle, he's gonna buy three expensive cigars, and he's gonna threaten to send me to the copper mines in Butt, Montana.














In the dark? Late tonight?






























I've got a lot of work to do!

Work in Puerto Rico needs to start 48 hours!

































It's hard to imagine you might have been touched by a woman.




I thought you never loved anyone, you didn't care about anyone. Women had no power over you.




No, because of another woman.


























Good morning, Miss McCardle.




Next. Tonight's schedule.





Fairchild, I'm gonna need you tonight.
























Really, sir?

























That woman.




Downstairs on the sidewalk, the kids were playing classics.
I'm very grateful to these kids.























- Really?

































I've been dying to do something all night.



























Dr. Calloway even wants to show it to his students!






- Beautiful! What else did Dr. Calloway say?















































You're lucky the kids are so in love with each other.














You've been with her for three nights in a row.



































It's twenty-nine o'clock! Good evening, Linus.





















































I ruined your evening.






































It's the last time we see each other.



I just remembered I didn't have lunch. Really?





























































Good morning! - Good morning!


Good morning.




It was a terrible night last night. I understand you perfectly.



















Contact Dr. Calloway.


Good morning!













What's wrong with you? I saw Sabrina when she came home last night.






































































































































































It's true, Takezo-san!











Really?








































































































































Really.






Are these bandits really coming back?
















You're a kid.


























A woman is nothing against a strong man!
You made me feel like a woman!


A woman only says that when she loves!
























Don't touch women!




















Otsu! Honey!
































Thank you for your work.































































































Good evening.




























Even women?

Don't you care about children's pain and death?














I'm sure he'll say, "Dear Takuan, where's the rest of it?"
My lord is your friend?








Funeral is my job.





































Children, go home!









They're practically a kid!





























And today is a beautiful moon, isn't it?




















I'm really human!














Is this a dream? Am I really alive?





















































































She sings beautifully for the baby! Really?

What do you think, Teacher, when she learned that? Maybe secretly, for tonight.







Really? I'm happy to hear that.








But maybe not for the baby.






















You're a strange woman.





















The breakup will be sad, my friend.
























You told me the two of us were gonna help each other start a new life!



































































































Your wife and child are suffering.




Tamaki, take the children to your parents' house in Iwasiro.







































They kidnap women and children. And that's why the governor hasn't allowed travelers to spend the night.








































The cold wind of the night is dangerous for the children.








A man or a woman?
Woman, babysitter.





- Really?













Kids beat their bellies and sleep, forgetting everything.






























Get out of here, I'll help the kids.
The children will sail on another boat.


The kids should be with me.

























These kids.
























The kids are here.



Hard work isn't for them yet, Father.
























- Shut up and give her a job.


















These children reminded me of my... remaining home.
























Hey, you! Eat dinner, and then start night work!










You must not be peasant children.









Let the women prepare!








You can't let the kids go by yourself.

























- Oh, is that true, sir?

















It's been ten years. Children have become strong young people, despite the hardships and suffering they have endured.













































Have you ever met a woman named Tamaki?














I have to get to work.














They say there's a corrupt woman.
- A saleswoman?











































































































Do you really want to run?























































































































































































The letter you brought says you're the son of Masaudzi Tyra from Mutsu Province. Is that true?



































































































Released persons, if they so wish, can either return home or stay as hired workers... and receive fair pay for their work with money or land.
































































I'm not here as a friend.
























Listen carefully, friends.










































I'm looking for a woman named Nakagimi.
















Are you really Nakagimi?













I'm looking for a woman in her 40s.
































Is it really you?

























































































I saw it with my own eyes. A long time ago, when you were kids, our village was burned by the bandits.













































But it's true, isn't it?











































He took the baby and said he'd kill him if we attacked.




The baby has been crying all day and still crying.




But he agreed to save the baby.








I just thought the baby was probably very hungry.





















It's just that I've had my fighting experience... lt's true, all the battles I've fought have been lost.

















































Maybe you'd better hang yourself!

















































































I like your character, and I know how to appreciate friendship, even though you'll never guess where you'll meet a friend.















































































- Really, he's a bad fighter.








It's actually an old friend of mine.
















You called him a kid,
But in Sam's case, when children are treated like adults, they work harder than adults.



























































Because if you're really the Kikutyo you're talking about here, you're exactly 13 years old.















- Is he really a samurai?
















































































































































































I told you, he's still a kid.






























































Burning their villages, plowing fields, taking food! You use them as slaves, you rape women, and you kill the disobedient.



















Shit! What a woman would like!




I don't think there are any women...


















































































It's gonna take at least a day to get the water down.











































How many women!






Looks like couples have better jobs to argue about.






















































































































































































Nice work!

Get it, you sons of bitches!























































































And the baby was with them, wasn't it?









This kid-- I--

























I don't know if they're gonna attack tonight, but anyway, it's gonna be here.





The attack will begin in the morning. This time, with all the remaining forces.































































The job's just for the scarecrow.













































So they won't come back tonight.


Yes... fighting will be desperate. And I think they're attacking in the morning?
















































































































The work found that the stones were older than Frederick's castle.































































































































I don't know how it turns out that a son despises his father's work.







- Everyone's got a job to do.



























I wanted to have fun with you in turn so you could sell each other out.






















Every night I watched her from behind the scenes.






























































































































Because we love each other...




























































































There will be a memorial service for Georges Bagot in the morning.






































































































To drag you back in the morning.





































































































Isn't this a hard job for you?



















The baby's still here, but we can do it.



















A friend or a woman?
A friend with a woman.


























































































It's true and there's nothing to get started on.

















































































So you take women, so you throw friends!








































































- Pierre, that's not true!











































The boy was telling the truth!


For telling the truth, I'll give you a generous reward.

























- You know! You stood hugging like old friends!




































































































































That's my friend!



























You're a rainbow, you don't know that friends aren't betrayed!































































































Dear sir, we're very surprised you didn't answer for 10,000 tons of wood.









I haven't seen you in four years, it's really a long time.





































All my children are going to Mobran... at the same time.



I love you kids.














Thank you, darling.


Is it true you saw ghosts?











Still, there's no reason to kill each other because of the girl.


















The priest looks pretty pathetic, doesn't he?



To lay in their place this morning.

















































- 7:00 a.m. to be in my office.










- Good morning, Dad.
- Good morning, bastards.


















Good morning, Philippe.












- Good morning, Monsieur Gontran.
- Good morning, Marie, how are you?


















- Good morning, Marquis.
- Good morning, postman.







Prince de Conti invites Marquis de Mobran and his children to honor him and take part in duck hunting in his land.


Meet me at 7:00 in the morning.



















- Good morning, Marquis.
- Good morning, Marie.


It turns out the kids came to see me.
































Really?













































































Come over to my place tonight, let's talk.









It's not about the company, is it?






































Did he say that last night?












The baby's gonna get sick, they're gonna run straight to you.




















































No... it's something else.












It's been a long time since we've heard such bullshit, hasn't it?






If you came to tell us that, you could stay with your friends.







Have a good night, Dad.
Have a good night, Pierre.
Have a good night.
Have a good night.
Have a good night, asshole.












I didn't realize this was going to happen this morning.


























































They can pretend to be friendly, but they're not friends.
It's true, monsieur.


Let's call each other Mobran and Conti like schoolboys.










I have to thank you for a nice morning.

























He's not coming here again, is he?









"My darling, you don't have to give yourself hope..."


































































- Good morning.













































Don't you realize we're going to Paris in the morning? ..to get married there?






















































Really, monsieur?






- I'm a free woman, aren't I?

Enjoy the evening...








































































Sit down, my friend.


- No, I don't smoke in the morning.










That means your children are very attached to Mobran.







































Aristocracy has nothing to do with this, my good friend.

As for this question... I'm the only one who can judge the actions of my children.



We talked about how children are attached to Mobran.
















You did it because it's your job.

































Not when my kids hire a lawyer to talk to me!
You don't have children, you don't understand.











No, Gontran! It's true!




















We're your kids.











































- I've got a job here.































Living in Mobran is an expensive pleasure, as he says.


























That you're really gonna aim at me and try to get in.











































- Really?






















He took the gun... and locked himself in the schoolyard with the kids.






He'll only be back tonight.





















































The twins tried to kill each other... and then Pierre...









































Is it true that you dwarves can do anything?




































































































But tomorrow morning, he must leave the pack.





























Tell me, kids, aren't you Cyril's squirrel kids?


















Really. [Laughs]


























































































































































































































You're gonna be big again when your closest friend comes to the lunch table with cabbage and apples.











































Charming kids!


Have your eyes fallen ill, dear colleague?



How hard it is for decent women to meet the dawn.





Thank you, darling.




























I really don't understand how you could have put up with him for so long.

















Like kids, "nothing"!











































































































And silver syringe is too expensive for them.








But when it comes to children, no, I'm ready to rise!

Calm down, darling.

Die, darling, die, but quickly.


Okay! So, my children, have fun with you.

I leave at 7:00 in the morning.
Have a good weekend, darling, take care!




















Our personal drivers don't work properly, dear colleague.















































Good evening.




You haven't sent your rent in a long time, dear madam.










Turn off the light, what's wrong with it, it's an expensive pleasure.























I'll get on the train tomorrow morning and pick you up at Nicole's.









































































Dear radio listeners, you just listened to the play.


- Good evening, Michelle.
- Good evening.


























I was at his place this morning. He assured us that he could conduct our divorce proceedings quickly.


























Nope. I really want a divorce.








And when the lawyer opens his mouth, he can't be stopped. If you think your parents will trust you to raise your children after that...






But you wanted to raise your children, so I gave up.















Maybe you don't even realize, but it's true.


















We'll leave right away, we'll be home in the morning.




Hey, woman.




































Ten o'clock?











































































We're already late, aren't we, Nicole?

















































































































Yes, my dear. For the third time, I'll drink my wine, chemically pure.
















Tonight, tomorrow morning.






And you're talking like a kid. Unit. What's worse?














































































This woman suffers from agoraphobia, from empty space, dizziness.

Well, dear colleague, is our headmistress feeling better?
She's now being examined by Dr. Luasi. Take her students, Monsieur Raymond.



What's up, Doctor?



















































Sorry, madam, your laundry this morning brought the suit to Saint-Clue.

Didn't you like our job?





This morning, the messenger forgot something.





















































































































































Our police have too much work to do.

Forty years of work is worth something. I have a lot of free time right now.
No, really, don't.




























He didn't have a car that day, the women took it to Nyor.




Thank you, my friend.








My darling, in Paris, a hundred men in their 30s, the brunettes are seven feet tall.





A woman.


















- Yesterday morning.





















































And I'm gonna go to the gendarmerie myself, and I still have friends there.





















Tell the truth now!














Last week, he told his friends he was fighting a lion at the fair.






The child broke the window, and the idea of punishment is born in his brain. And he's making up the principal... well, the rest is covered in darkness.
Do you really believe that?
No, but the kid thinks he's grounded, literally.












Well, go into the corner and come out only when you're telling the truth.


























Dr. Luazi is very concerned.
He asked Dr. Breeda to come here tomorrow morning.

























I gotta get downstairs, that's part of my job.














I could put her in my clinic, but it's an expensive pleasure.



























































I've come to report on the work done.











































Tomorrow morning... you'll wake up justified.













Me too, dear colleague, me too.






























She was taken away this morning. She didn't die when she came back.



Don't take the pleasure of your friends who might be interested in this movie.














Where are we gonna finish tonight? Come on, let's have a drink.





































There's a lot of work around here!


























I'll call my kids.










You know, Anna... the hardest part is being away from you and the kids.







I'll do it tomorrow morning.



You're not talking too much tonight...



























Quiet, the kids just fell asleep.
































































Oh, Dad, if it wasn't for fear of ruining your evening, I'd explain it to you.











































It's just an unforgettable evening!












How are your kids?
Kids?





He's crazy about kids.

What a joy it must be to go back to your children.



























Is it true that your waitresses only wear fucking sheets?











Can you come over tonight?












Do you know each other?







































Here, first of all, there's a patient coming to see a doctor...













I have so much work to do.




































Do you remember Dr. Rosenfeld?







- Tomorrow night.
Tomorrow night, 10:00.



















































Learn to recognize your real friends.




I'm your friend.
Let's be clear: appointed by my friend.









Unlike your "important friends" who will come a day, so they will stop.























































You know, Anna, I'm proud... I'm proud to be fighting for you, for children and for a better world.


- What a lucky evening!



































And they lived on the banks of the Rhine, fighting, drinking, singing, and having children.

These are the best people, my dear!







































If you think I can forget even the word we said to each other, and most importantly, what I want to say to you...



All the women I knew. But I don't need it.





















































Good morning, Hartmann.








































You'll find out what I'm laughing at if you ask my friend Oderbrooke.





















Maybe, until tonight, in the theater.
























































































Your "important friends"?



















































So let him tell him the truth!



























And that's what my friend tells me?








































































































































This morning.







I arranged a little corride at Otto's tonight.






























I didn't know how true it was.










































You have friends everywhere.























































































You need a woman to push you.








Watch out for the women who hide the Jews!


























I haven't told the kids yet.














How happy he was to fight for a better world, for us, for the children...










But what can a woman do?


































































































Really?


































































- What about your friend Aylers?

























No friends, no enemies...






















So if you could get me a job...





Can you give him a job?










































Now the kids only come for the weekend-- time is all I have.














Now that he's 40, he'll start thinking that any woman over 18 is old enough for him.








- Bye, darling.





































Beautiful, isn't it?


I think I'll get back to work.



- Hello, darling!
















- No, honey, he wasn't in town.












Of course, it doesn't mean as much to men as it does to women.


What, honey?

























- Good evening, Harvey.
- Cary, darling!










I found a great doctor there.


























- Cary, honey, it's our age.
Anne and I were laughing, thinking about another night, then with Martin...

Come on, darling. Cary!
My favorite woman!




















Cary, darling!


It's indecent to have two grown-ups and look as young as you.













- Like Mary and the kids?







Tonight after night, she stays at home alone.
- Yeah, but she's got kids.






- It's much better out here, isn't it? - Yes.


















The main point of sexual attraction between a man and a woman...






I had a rough night tonight. I enjoyed every minute.


















- Good night, darling.















- Bye, darling.



































I know a woman probably wouldn't live here, but for me, it's perfect.































































I'm going to the north of the state to buy seedlings for my friends.



















Because television is supposed to be the last comfort of a lonely woman?






I'm going to visit my friends.











See you tonight.










































































We've got enough work to do.




























































Mick, honey, take this.







Oh, no, thank you, darling.





I caught myself this morning!
















- You need to see his work.





























Do you have any better plans for Saturday night?
No, the kids aren't coming this weekend.











Of course, there's still a lot of work to do, but it's worth it.





















Kids... how can I take them away from home?





- Isn't it enough that we love each other?
















Honey, don't cry.











I called you before 9:00 P.M.







The kids weren't here, so I decided to leave for the weekend.


- Where did you go, darling?






I don't want the kids to hear about it before I tell them myself.


Two people love each other and want to get married.






























- But that's not true!


















You don't have to apologize, Sarah. Just... be still my friend.






Good evening, Mrs. Plash.













I'm in the basement, darling.



- How are you, darling?




























Oh, my darlings!

















Mom, have you introduced him to any of your friends yet?

























- I understand you like this job.






















She, like most women, has a desire to gain the approval of society.





Mom, I'm sorry, but I have a job. I have to prepare.





























Hold my cocktail, darling.











She was always quiet, wasn't she?





- I'd like to be your friend too.

Come on, darling.

- Cary, my dear.





Come on, darling.

- You know Dr. Dan.











- My dear, I heard that...














- Oh, my dear, he's adorable.

Open-air work, I guess.




























































How can I invite my friends to the house?













Kay, darling, what happened?










Oh, honey!



















Some of her friends have been awful to her.



- Well... let's give the kids time to get used to that thought.











Howard and I will shake hands and forget everything.















But I can't ruin the lives of my children.











You're trying to make me choose between the kids and you!












But at least you have kids.
And you don't have to fill your life with parties and work at a club.




















- Hello, darling!



Say hi to the kids.

Good to see you. - Hello, Doctor.




- I'm waiting for the kids to come.


I don't think your kids are here.












I need a tree for the kids.




















































That's when we realized we loved each other.






You didn't really love him, did you?




















































It's good, isn't it?























Forget I'm your doctor for a minute. Let me give you advice as a friend.










I've been thinking about my kids.








Despite the gossip, the children, everything!
Look at the truth.



































I don't know yet. Mick and Dr. Henesey are with him now.








- He took the doctor to town.






But I'm sure the doctor wouldn't have left if he thought that...












Friends, neighbors, kids.


























Yes, darling. I...
♪ Bunch of friends ♪




















































































































If you want to know the truth, I did it.















































Kamurati and Petrocinetti just said hello (Chao) this morning and said goodbye (Chao) after school.
But one morning, sad rainy morning, Mario had a chance to sit back at her old desk, comfortable and fit.






















































































































- Hello, darling.
























- A friend of mine calls to his own.

















Well, I don't know what the kids are like.




















- Why did you refuse a friend from the hotel?


Maybe he wants to be a friend.



























Oh, a friend from the hotel, huh?

























It's antique! Can't you see there's a woman working hand-in-hand?


































































































My dear...































Tomorrow morning, wake me up, as usual, at seven o'clock.











































































































- Hello, darling.



I suggest you guys don't eat chocolate tonight.














She called me this morning and told me she was inviting everyone.



































































- Oh, hello, darling!


























- Because my friend is waiting for me.
- Let this friend come in.
















- Good evening.



















Yes. I made it this morning.























































- However! Beautiful, aren't they?












Come on. So you're not my friend?




























Yeah, really.


























In the evenings when it's dark, I'm drawn to talking.


















- Hello, darling.




















































- What's gotten into you this morning?
































I'm sorry, but they showed you in the morning, didn't they?
























If you want to know the truth, I did it.












































- How come you haven't seen him all morning?








- What have you been doing all morning?





















































"Dear Mario, I'm writing you to say... "Is this a letter for me?








I did it just for our friendship, so you'd think I was worthy of being your friend." But I want you to know.






























































































Otherwise, everything was going as usual until one night...



















- You'll see him in the morning at school.
































































































Sorry, honey.













My father can call you tonight.































































Mario Kamurati and Franco Petrocinetti, one of the "K" groups, the other of the "P", ran in different colours in their underwear and were able to please each other with victory.





























































































We agreed that we would support each other by taking the lead in the race in turn, so that the others would back off.

















- Is that true?






- My father's leaving tonight and he's giving me instructions for the evening.


























































- Your friend's on the phone.











































- Good evening, teacher.
- Good evening, Secretary.
































































I want to see a friend who's leaving.








- Say it. This friend of yours is leaving because you had a fight?












































Great, isn't it?



































Patty, honey.











- French paintings, darling?













You're much smarter than a kid you're trying to seem.
















But before I go, I want the truth about the divorce rumors.



















Thanks, man.

Why does the studio get Bliss back to work after a scandal like this?

He's also always a close friend.

















He's all, your dear friend almost ruined his career and didn't throw you out of history.


Okay, I still think it was wrong for a public opinion to give him his job back like this.













































I'm in the film business, honey.










I'm a woman, not a diplomat.




























































You don't even have any friends except Hank Teagle.
Hank was a friend of mine long before he became yours.























































































Honey, there's always gonna be Stanley Hoffa in our world.








Honey, we're both wrong.







Do you really want to quit?












We love each other, don't we?































Nikki, you have a good heart, but the doctor says I have diatermia.








Let's not get distracted, I saw your manager this morning.




















- Honey, listen to me.

















Okay, darling, the first thing I have to tell you is Stanley called me to his office this morning about the contract in two hours, hello columbia put you in front of the fact, they'll look in here.







Honey, I'm terribly worried.







But you're wrong, dear sir and friend, in everything...









































- How do you wake up in the morning, kitten?








I'll call them tonight.













I wish I could, I really would, Stanley, but the thing is, friends of a different kind are coming, friends of Marion...

























































- Really?
- Yeah, really, really.











For years, a woman who was my wife...

















And I didn't cry like I did when I was a kid.




Women should be away from their husband's work when he earns bread and butter.












But really, I don't have the strength to make you sign, do I?






We don't like each other.





























Honey, I know how you feel.






Honey, look far ahead.












































You're hurting me, darling.












You think I don't know you killed a kid in that accident and not Buddy?














Don't fight him, darling.






Don't stay home, friend.


Here's Dr. Castle's recipe for incontinence for life.










You're hurting me again, darling.


Why didn't you tell him, darling?


















































































The kids still think he's writing for Mercury and the band, but what's happened is what Uncle Hoff calls trouble.
















Honey...




- Calm down, darling.












- Aren't you my friend?
- Friend, Charlie...
























Charlie, I'm meeting with a lawyer in the morning.
























































































Women, women, women.












- How many women are there?

Why do you think of women, kitten?




Really?
























































































































Take a dose of painkiller from Dr. Castle.





























I like listening to you speak, darling.
































Charlie, honey, I know when to stop.




















Honey, Charlie, why don't you get mad?
























I'm sorry, honey, but you're wrong, and I'm gonna bet $60 you're wrong.





Can you look at me and hear the truth?

That's the truth.
I made Hank come back because I really thought you needed me.
I'm such an idiot to give you a second chance, aren't I?


























Aren't we picking each other out of millions?



Where's that woman with a heartbeat like I know you?



































Is she really about a guy like me?



























Someone's got to finish the job he was born for.














































A woman and six martinis can destroy the city.




























On the day of the first plan, you will marry this plot and his children.
























































Marion, Charlie has fantastic thoughts about his friend.







- You don't treat your friends well, kitten.
- You're not my friend.





















To tell a man like Smiley Coy, former U.S. Air Force Major a friend of many, I don't know who to start with, the late Al Johnson, Jerome Kern, Bill O'Dwyre...










Why is there a woman here?














That she's still at the bar, she's being entertained by my friend.












Some kind of special aristocracy because women want to make love to you?
















We'll never talk to each other again.
















Go to the law office this morning and check out Castle's contract and find a suitable case.











- Let him finish, darling.






A woman has been seeing a writer lately.
























Forgive me, Charlie, darling, I'm crying.




















The parents of a dead child and the insurance company will wipe you out in any court in the country.
They'll undress you, your baby, and your woman.


























Charlie, darling, stop smashing your hands.












Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, darling.






Honey, Nicky's here.










- No, honey.




















Listen, honey, could you come here right now?









You taught me so much, darling, even how to listen to music.













- Yes, darling.




You were my friend.


You were my friend.































Hello, darling.








Good night, darling.



























































Call Dr. Curly, call Stanley, send them here to Charlie Castle's house right now.

Here's your job.





"He had a doctor in his bed, Dr. Curly.

"and his close friend and colleague Stanley Schreiner Hoff."


























Your work is done.











A diary with records of our journey... my friends and I spent a wonderful vacation...

























































It was really cold!


















Listen, Comrade Mamont, are we really in the Prehistoric era?
























































Peter, can't we really take anything with us?







































































































































Fat, wake up! It's morning.



















Really!














































































He hasn't moved since tonight.


















Your truth... but we didn't come here to gather sensations...














































































































You're just an irresponsible kid!










Really! As long as it's light, we have to find a place to spend the night.
























You're not acting like a member of the expedition... you're a child and nothing more...












































Trilobite! Really?





















My family was very rich... and I was the only child.



No, the lady said the baby wouldn't eat much at night.







































They could spend more on themselves... if you were my child.....but they treat you like a 3-year-old.
Take it, darling.
























They say General Gomez will be here tonight, he'll put them in the right place.

































I'm sure you were good and clean like other kids.






We talked too much today, the doctor's gonna scold us.
















Go on, Doctor.











































































































Bring me the vase I finished this morning.






























I assume you'll be there tonight?
- Tonight?


































Your work is getting better every time.












Someday we'll have to watch you work.







































































Dear Willie, how much did they cost?
























Interesting woman, isn't she, Archie?




















Tonight's gonna cost you a lot... and besides, I'm gonna leave with the first person I meet.

































































































Nothing, the only thing that matters is that we love each other.
We'll never be able to love each other like other people.














She is the most unreasonable woman in the world.















As you know, a woman pursues a man until she catches him.



























Are you a friend of Miss Patricia Terrazas?


We're not really friends, I just know her.
Until what time were you with her last night?















































Mom, you know I can't tonight.


































More women and less men...













And they say women have to trust men...






Let's be friends!
Close friends.
But I have to go back to my American friends.


























I can't understand why you keep doing this job.



















- Truth be told...


















































































Good morning.
Good morning, gentlemen.






















Tell me the truth.























See you tonight.









Does she really look like me?





Cousin, let me introduce you to my friend, Lavinia.









And you're the most charming woman I've ever met.















































Didn't this castle have a place to work other than this room?























They wanted to see your work.





















- I'm quitting my job.


























































"Before you get married, you have to know the truth."













































We are Eve's named children.
















That's because our friends are such beautiful people.







But I think our friend is too sentimental.







No, they're friends.


























I'm the one who killed all these women.

Thinking is not a crime, my friend.







































Here are the boundaries at 5:45 a.m. on June 18, 1948.










As you know, the ceasefire agreement will enter into force at 5:45 a.m.








So far, all she's been given is a boring job.









































- I.D. - A curfew has been declared from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.












































Is this man your friend?




I was waiting for my friends.


Friends just come by to check on each other.
- So he's still one of your friends?





What would your friend say about that?









- You'll get justice if you keep covering your friends underground, and you're not happy about it.
























The curfew ended at 6 a.m.



Browning and I followed her every eight hours.


If she was working underground, her job wasn't very important to me.




















































You need to change the job profile. I'm moving you to work at the office.





















































Good job, Finnegan.










- So he volunteered as a friend of Berger's.



































Come in, friends.








My most expensive thing is here.


























































































There'll be no more water until tonight.

























































Grandpa read it to us when we were kids.




























































































You're a believer, aren't you? Yes.
























































Lillian, darling.



Come on, darling.

























Things are different now, darling.







There's nothing to cry about, darling.
































We're going to Chicago the day after tomorrow, darling.






























































Get some rest, darling.


































We've made it, darling.



























































Besides, I have a friend here who doesn't come to the East often.





















Call me tonight before 9:00.
















































You know, it's funny to remember someone like a baby.









































I want a house, three or four kids and a wife who's gonna scold me for the weak ambition I have.






- Hey, honey.











It's not about you personally, darling.









It's written truth, you can't be a wife and have kids and be a star at the same time, can you?



Lillian, honey, you've been working on this, you know, since when?







I want to be his real wife, not the one who's always on tour whose kids grow up in dressing rooms.




- Well, I can do it for my husband and my friends or myself.








- I really like the next one.




Honey, what's the matter?



Don't be stupid, darling.



Hello, Lillian, darling?




I love you, darling.

Honey, are you feeling okay?




I'll do it, darling.





















































Lilly, darling, you don't have to keep him around.







Don't worry, darling.










Doctor...




Good morning.
























Look, if we go back and tell our friends that...
Maybe tonight, after the show...






Lilly, honey, it's time to pack, sweetheart.





Come on, Lilly, darling.


















David's dead, darling.






"Lilly, darling, you can't go with David tonight."
"Lilly, darling, I want you to stop dating this boy."










It was for your happiness, darling.

























Sometimes at night I wake up and I don't understand whether it's true or not.
































































































We tried to forget we didn't love each other.


































































You don't like my hair, you don't like my friends.














My lawyer will meet you in the morning.


































Your friend needs something.





























































































































































Lilly, darling.





























































Better now, darling?










Excuse me, darling.








- Good evening, Miss Roth.
- Good evening.







































































Lilly, darling.








I'll take you, and we'll help each other.


Tonight?





It's business, darling.











Tonight?




Forget it, darling.







We have our whole lives ahead of us to help each other.









It's for me, darling.















You don't have to drink it, darling.








It's an expensive drink.





You know, at first, we really needed each other.
















- I didn't finish the conversation, darling.









My maid left this morning because I was very drunk.









- Really greedy.











































But it's not night, darling.
It's 11:00 P.M., and it's only 8:00.



























Baby, honey.


















- Coffee's almost ready, darling.





Okay, darling.










Yes, darling.
No, no, yes, darling."




























No money, no work, no youth, nothing to pay back.













It's true.


Every word is true.





That's not true.


















































































































No more than all of us are for each other.


























I asked a girl to go out with me, but before the end of the night, I was sure that whoever came with me was doing it out of pity.





I was lucky to meet these friends who survived.







Good evening.
Good evening.

















Forget the old stuff tonight.




































That's not true.







































































































We belong to each other.
Together, we'll help each other.











We have her permission to tell the truth.















































































Dear Davy, you haven't heard from me this month. And we're starting to worry if you're okay.
































But for Gordon, tonight was a bitter pill.









































































































But the first thing I did this morning was come back to see how she was.












They have so much in common.















They loved each other very much and were happy.


And after that, I don't think he ever thought of another woman.





























Then, one cold winter morning, the maid woke us up and said Daddy was dead.


















And I got a job.











































What's the rush? The banks will open in the morning.











































- You're still the same, aren't you?





- Really?












































Good morning, Mr. Rappalo.




















































































































































All your younger brothers and sisters have already married and had children.













All your younger brothers and sisters got married and had children.





























What would you like to do tonight? I don't know, Angie.

Well, that's what you have to do on Saturday night.



































I don't want to ruin your Saturday night.























I was so nervous that I spilled the milk I was making for the baby.







































There are a lot of girls there every Saturday night.













Marty, she's an elderly, lonely woman. No one wants her. It's not sweet at home either.






I'll come over tonight and talk to Katerina.





Virginia was in the kitchen making milk for the baby and my mother...



















Just tell me it's an old friend.

















I wanted to go to the movies today, and I was wondering if you and your friend would go to the movies with me and my friend. Yeah, tonight.


Yeah, how about... how about next Saturday night?
Are you free tonight next Saturday? Well, what about Saturday after Saturday?



Well, what are you gonna do tonight, Marty?












Marty, I don't want you to stay home all night.




I don't know what I'm not, but women don't like me.





I thought nothing could hurt me, but I was hurt. Some stupid woman.















































































I'll introduce you as my old friend in the army, and then I'll leave.

















































































Hey, kids! Go to the movies.
Your mom and I are gonna babysit.



I wake up in the morning.
I hear a baby crying, so I wake up.
I'm going to their room, and this girl turns out to be shaking the baby's hand. I say, "Straight!
Don't you dare hit the baby! It's my son's baby!" - It's her baby, too.
- It's my son Thomas's baby.
Yeah, but not your baby.














There's three of you in three tiny rooms, and there's a little kid.
You know that's not how it works when an old woman lives with her husband and wife.
Two women in the kitchen are insufferable: a house can burn down.





Katerina, you're the most expensive person to me.









I want to clean, I want to cook. I want to make dinner for my kids.







Where are the kids playing in all the rooms, huh?




























Is that true? Right, right.


































Really stupid, huh?

















Going back to your old job for 40 cents an hour?



I walked the streets until three o'clock, four o'clock in the morning. My poor mom...






Then Mr. Othry offered me a job at his butcher's shop...
My friends practically begged me to say yes.

















Some kids in my class, they're... they're so warm and so capable.























The doctor told her that the next delivery would pose a risk to her life.
She's already had six kids!




- No, I haven't seen him all night.

"Didn't you tell me another kid would kill you?"

Anyway, she had a baby at St. Elizabeth's on Tuesday. - Good, healthy boy. 9 quid.
- That's good. So the doctor was wrong.













It's mostly executive and administrative work.












You make friends right away.
Well, actually, no, I don't make easy friends.


You're gonna make a bunch of friends in your Port Chester right now.















































There was a statue of a woman who had whiskey in her mouth.



























What are you doing tomorrow night? Nothing.



Now I can't say anything specific... because my Aunt Katherine is probably coming tomorrow morning.






























Woman, she's 56 years old, Katerina. She's had her own house all her life.
But now she's just an old woman sleeping on a couch in her sister-in-law's house.

Kids grow up, fly out of the nest, and then what's left for you?
What is a mother's life without children?





But you have to have a house to clean up, you have to have kids to cook for someone.



I'm sure she wants to have a home to cook for the kids and clean up.

I don't know, but mom doesn't usually have to live in a house with kids if they're married.

I don't think a mother should be so dependent on her children because of what she did to them.


















I thought we were gonna take a walk and come back, right? I've been looking for you. What happened, Angie?

Clara, my best friend Angie. - I told you about him. - Yes.











I have to get up tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. and go to church. - All right, happy.









So, I'll see you tomorrow night. Okay.



















































































You have a good job, no wife, nothing to answer for.

Take the baby, huh?








I understand the problems with supermarkets, but I talked to the girl last night...




















He's been like this all morning.









I gave birth to six children in this house.

In a few months, you're gonna be an old woman, sleeping on a couch in your sister-in-law's house.
















Marty, we're gonna sit in the back for the baby.

































Marty, I heard you spent last night with a creepy crocodile.









































How good he is with women!

















Hey, Marty, let's go to 72nd Street tonight.































Tonight on the anniversary of our show...






That's how it's gonna go all night.











I don't know. George, what are you doing tonight?
"What are you doing tonight?" "I don't know.










I had a good time last night. I'm gonna be okay tonight, too.





















Dr. Danieli (on the run) wanted for complicity in an illegal abortion.














Whose fault they let the doctor slip away?




Did you catch the doctor?













What about the doctor?
What about the doctor?











I met Dr. Danielly... through a common acquaintance... named Alain Berger.

Did the meeting take place at the doctor's address?


Danieli invited a company of friends...



Did you come home to the doctor again, five weeks later, to talk about your difficulty?














Avenue Turville, Dr. Danielly." Do you want me to read it?



















Friend.





Since this morning, with all your questions, I don't know what's going on.

















































And one night we're on our way... to the same station at the same hour as the same day that Paris seemed so promising to us.






When I decided to quit my job, I thought I'd never read a newspaper again.
































It was true.



























Touchy, isn't it?















No, let's meet tonight.
- Tonight?



I'll be waiting for you for dinner at 10:00 p.m. at the Jungle restaurant.












Truth is, I don't have the slightest wish.







This morning you asked why men... prefer to talk to women on general subjects.














































































Today's young people are all alike.








There are women in the hall dressed so much better.


Could you walk around the hall and take a picture of the women at the table?












You've even been able to identify some talent from this idiot photographer from Nice, who I'm planning to hire.

Really?











































Leave your self-inflicted conscience to others like your friend Pierre.








































































So, your friend Walter left you?









You're going back to Paris, looking for a job...














Because this job is very important to me right now.




















You men are all so alike.










I've been up since 8:00 a.m.























Did he offer you a job?







And a glass for the doctor!

Dr. Danielly.

Good evening.
This is Dr. Danielly...



- What are you, doctor...


All the women in Paris are trying to get them.

Isn't that right, Alain?





So you don't have to represent each other.



Everyone knows each other, they know each other, or they'll get to know each other someday.

There's someone else I need to introduce to.





Did you meet Helen Ducure at Dr. Danielly's?










She came to talk to me about your friend Danielli,











I've been up all day since 8:00 a.m.


































































It's nice here, isn't it?













- Do you have to go, Doctor?

Do you really have to rush there at this hour when everyone's having fun here?





























































































Did you really think you could just disappear like that and leave me in the air, frozen, thirsty for your favor, begging only that the sky would bring you back to me?












Didn't you notice how they looked at each other all night?










































Did you know what kind of favor the doctor asked for?

Did Dr. Danielli tell you about Mademoiselle Racon's visit?


















Like your friend Berger?












Yeah, I think she has a lot to do with him-- parents, friends...






















They leave no doubt about your little adventure with your friend.





I don't know, and the truth is, I don't care.












"We were supposed to be friends, not start over.
















We've already told each other everything.





If your Paris friends see you coming back with some hillbilly!

















































Dr. Danielly shot himself in a restaurant on the Elysée Fields.


When she finally found a real friend and decided that all the nightmares were behind her, she had no idea what an ironic breakup her destiny was.
She was just about to find out how notorious... that Parisian doctor had made her by shooting herself in the middle of Paris.

Her dream of being talked about, about winning this scary town she came to in the autumn evening, just like this one.


















Her baby's growing up without being raised. Need some help?

























You're condoning a child in a bad way, and I have to look people in the eye.








And this morning, I found out that Hori...











- I start work next month.


With this work and the service of ceremonies, we can make ends meet for a while. You have to believe in me.
Happy January: The boy was born and you have a job.















































Don't forget your friend Boydyonate.






















- Nobody cares about an old woman.

It's a shawl so you don't get cold tonight.





I risk my job if I ask now.
There must be another job in town.





















An old woman has to put lashes on a shawl. Durga, come here.























They disappeared this morning.












She's just a kid.

































You can talk. You women always have a reason to talk.




The kids need new clothes, and the aunt needs a shawl.














When you lived in Benarez, you had a lot of friends?

















You live a job.










Rajou gave it to me so I wouldn't freeze in the evening.







I just told him how cold it is in the evenings, and he...







Don't you see that even our children sometimes run hungry?



















































I'm gonna stop by Bicephard on my way back. There's a big market in town, maybe there's work for me.















After all, we're not strangers. I've been waiting every day for some news about Jorge.


































The kids aren't home?

















































































































No one has the right to quit their job.






















































Good evening.



































We've got a little business next door. I'll see you at 9:00 p.m.







Why don't we take a walk at the moon after work?

Look, your friend is calling you.















Money after work.


























I have a wife and kids.























True, it was hard at first, but then I got used to it.

















































































Monsieur Roger and his friend Catalan came three times during the evening.











Everything was fine tonight.
































































































































- No, I have a job.

































I brought you a very good friend.














We have costs too, don't we?




























































































Women, too?























He's got a job.





















































































Well, Paul wants to know if you can get back to work.
































That's another friend of mine.





I told you to keep my friend company.










Be nice to my friend!


What happened, my children?






































Good evening.





- Hello, darling.
It's a friend.
- Good evening.




































Nice work.










- Good evening, Lea.


- Good evening.
































































I brought a friend.





Don't worry about me, I'm Lea's friend.




























































Go to bed, darling, I'll close it myself and come.








































































































Really, it's incredible...






















The leaders... never get along.




























































- Doctors!



Doctor, take care of him.




















Now, darling, go home, I have a lot of work to do here.










A very clever way to deal with a woman...







































He doesn't like my friends.



















































Where were you tonight?

Where were you tonight, Jimbo?

























I think it's wrong for a mother to leave and leave her child.









Don't buzz, darling.

Isn't that right, Frank?







He's just drunk, honey.


And the guy doesn't have any friends.



















There's no place for children!
























That's what you want, isn't it?





















They think I might have friends... if we move out.








He always wants to be my friend, you know?



























It's okay, honey.








Then give it to your friends.


Jim, your eggs are on the table, darling.




















Look, pick your friends carefully.


























- Your friend?









































They do not yield to one another in brightness.















I don't need friends.




































































































Dr. Minton!


































































You don't have to stand there, darling.



































































































Is he your friend?
Yeah, he's my best friend.































































If you'd come in, we could talk... and have breakfast in the morning, just like my father did.



I'll see you in the morning, okay?


























Tell me the truth, do you like doing this to us?


















































The guy died tonight!





Dad, you said... that I should always tell the truth.














































































Come back in the morning, okay?














- somewhere. I met him this morning.











I woke up this morning, you know?







I'm sorry for everything I said to you this morning.



















- Your friend!











We need your friend!


Your friend's cracked it all up!


























He's home, darling.






















































Or maybe you want to buy it, darling?
It's up to you, darling.








Kids?







And you, darling?



If you have kids, you're gonna love it.





- No one's talking to the kids.





























Really?
Then my mom said it was very expensive, and she went to Hawaii.








Really?























Being a friend of Plato's when no one likes him.












I really feel it.

Good morning.



































































Praying for your children.






There's more kids out there.





































You're my friend, Plato.































































Friends always keep their promises.
























These aren't my friends!






































She's my friend.



















He was my oldest childhood friend.








































I'm sorry, you know, but there's kids with them.




Signor, signor, they'll kill each other!





You said the job was over, and it wasn't just over, it wasn't even starting, I'm telling you!



I wore it because I had to work!



















Andrea's mother treats her like a child.




- Women!




Andrea, are you telling me that in that tone? - I've been waiting for you all morning.
































































I found a job in a small business when my brother was called up for military service.



This job is the same as any other one, and I've worked to survive.



What did they say on the radio last night?


- Really?

































In the morning, I always go swimming in the river.










You're incredibly lucky with women.























You're cheating on me, and with whom? With my best friend!















































- It's your evacuated, cutting each other off!


















I'll have to give her ten more drops tomorrow morning if I have to.







Your friend invited me to listen to the radio.


Now let her rest, and if you need a doctor tomorrow, let me know.













































- Is that true?



















- See you tonight. - Goodbye.

















- Isabella, darling, didn't you leave?









- Is that true?


















- Is it true that everyone's leaving?












































- Calm down, they're friends.




Tonight you can eat and rest as much as you need, of course.






Is the doctor home? - He's on call.











- The Germans started to search the area. - Really?












































































































All right, let's get to work, I'll explain the situation on the ground.





















- Good evening.



My friends are crazy to let them go.








- Nothing's gonna happen to my friends?











































































































Mom, I'm not a kid anymore!

You're saying you're not a kid, you're risking your life that way.




On the contrary, it's your duty. Think of the name you're wearing, the people you're supposed to give a job, your situation, your responsibility, Andrea. Your duty.


I'm a lonely woman.
























Every year, in July, when the heat became unbearable, they sent their women and children up the river, to the cool mountains... or, if they did, to the seashore.







Manhattan wives and children are still being sent out of town for summer.
















Honey, you promised to eat properly and not smoke. Dr. Murphy told you not to.
And you promised not to drink. Dr. Summers forbade you.
- I'll call you at 10:00 tonight.















I'm going to work.



The firm's nominal head is old Brady, but, to tell you the truth, Sherman is a key figure in it.


















No saloon, no booze, Dr. Summers forbid.
























When you don't know your friends from your enemies, and all people are brothers?













No questions. "How's work going?"










I have Dr. Brubaker's manuscript with me.




















No dogs, no kids, just two decorators upstairs.












"Knowledge and subconscious," Dr. Ludwig Brubaker.















No, I bet she thinks I brought women.







I'm very attractive to women.

I hate to say things like that to my wife, but women have been throwing themselves at me for years.
It's true, darling. Beautiful women. As long as you want.
- A huge crowd of women.



















I'm a woman, you hear me?









You don't understand that I'm for women:















You're about to get your stitches off, and we're gonna lose each other forever.




















































Well, let's get to work.













Women live faster than men.










Oh, really?













Good night, darling.

































- Really?







I really need to, Dr. Murphy.

Don't worry, Dr. Murphy.


What about your concession, Dr. Summers?
Doctor, let's be reasonable.












The first night without Helen, I bring a woman to the apartment.








































Just a minute, darling.












Why don't you pick them up tomorrow morning when I go to work?

I have to take my wife and the kids to the train station tomorrow morning.






Come tomorrow night, anytime, but not now.
Tomorrow night?







And he's got four kids.












































































- Really?


























Really?














































- It's a very interesting line of work.



















Was she really adorable?
































"Developments." "Children and animals." "The human body."


















I'll send it tomorrow morning.


















A friend from the village...






Can you really open it?
























- Do you have kids?














- Really?






































Really?













Some women melt when they listen to this music.
- Really?






- Isn't that great?
- Yeah, it's really cool.




It's a lovely evening.


Really?











It was taken early this morning.

















He used to play, still a kid.








- Really?

























Okay, I'll leave if that's what you really want.







You smoke, you drink, you mess with women, you play Chopstix...




One morning you'll look in the mirror and that's it.

- Good morning, Mr. Sherman.
- Good morning, Miss Morris.



























I drank bourbon, smoked cigars, played poker till morning.
And I came straight to work.































- Dr. Brubaker to see Mr. Sherman.
- You're hurt today, Doctor.





- Oh, Dr. Brubaker.















All his victims were middle-aged women.
You see, doctor, in terms of sales, it's much more effective to show that a man is catching up with a young girl.



My job is to eliminate breakdowns, neurosis, internal stresses...



- Does that mean anything, Doctor?






- Do you charge a lot of money?






You're not gonna believe this, but last night, I found out I was hitting on a young girl myself.









- Okay, Doctor.









There was this woman.









Here you go, Doctor.

























































While his wife and child are resting in Maine, this monster terrorizes New York's girls.





































I'll send him out tomorrow morning, first thing.












Good evening.


























No woman's gonna stand in front of a writer like that.

















Oh, honey!
























Isn't that great?
















It's worth a little more, but 8 out of 10 dentists...







- It's true!













It doesn't matter to me how much it costs even if I have to lay down my own kids. I'll tell you that, in the summer of New York, I have to buy an air conditioner.






































Hopelessly confused men and women.















I have to look good in the morning.














And if anyone sees you leaving my apartment at 8:00 in the morning...




















Come tomorrow morning when I'm having breakfast.

































































Wrap up the paddle and send it in the morning.

























I have to go to work.
Please, lady, get up. Go home, I have to go to work.






Of course he lives in an expensive apartment...














Hello, good morning!




















He saw a girl at my place last night called Helen across the city and told her everything. Crumbs!





There's a woman in your apartment!



















Richard, at least have the courage not to bring in an innocent child's weight!











You know Dr. Murphy forbade you from smoking.

Just one cigarette, Dr. Murphy.




























- Really?



















How can you love a man with a briefcase... who grows a belly and starts singing at 9:00 p.m.?































- Good morning, Dickie-baby.











Really?




























- You really want to know?

Drink to a pig's insane state at 8:30 a.m.!




- Other kids have been walking down the lake for a long time.



































































































































It's your job to fight!












































- Are you really selling it?





So drink, friends, take a break!




Let's drink, friends!

Come on, friends, let's have fun!













































I can't even have boat nights now in the summer!


If I didn't have children...


































Her mother died when Tokiko was a child.


Knowledge and high sanity do not give me much advantage, and I cannot provide children with a life of luxury.


















































It wasn't me: my friend wants to talk to you.













































One night it rained heavily...


























You talked to your friend about it yourself.






















Tell me the truth.

Is it true that my father is not my father?








You know the truth!



Is it true that I'm his son?



It was a fall night.








Who's the baby from?





You'll marry this woman.

She's expecting a baby. It doesn't matter who it's from.





























Mother, you know the truth.


For 20 years I've led a miserable life... a samurai's wife, all for the sake of the children.















Father, tell me the truth:
















































































































Why such an expensive gift?






































This evening gave me an unforgettable pleasure.

















































































































































































































I'm a child born out of wedlock and I can only rely on myself.










































If you touch Tokitad or his friend, the palanquins will answer for it!





















































Is it true that Desire Armfeld was his mistress?












- The work of a real master.



















Hey, kids!










We're going to the theater. It's theater night!
















Anna, darling?






Really... how funny!




















A woman may sin in front of her husband, a son, a lover, but dare not humiliate them.














































Fortunately, women give it half as much weight as we do.




















- You don't look like other women?



















- And we're having a baby.










































































She's stubborn like a spoiled kid.
















Desire, as pleasant as our secret dates were, you're my best friend.























































Once a woman can love a man, explain?
Women are not prone to aesthetics.























"Love, you've been battling like a fish on ice all these years" "and sacrificing yourself to this child, the fruit of our love!"

The baby is mine and mine alone.































































I thought we were friends.

You never had any friends but yourself.
























- Honey, we're not in the theater.




I'm so glad, dear Carl-Magnus.
















We're old friends.
























































- Good morning, Mom.

What would make my daughter come here at 7:00 a.m....





















But as I understand it, the evening was just beginning.




































- Do you really love this smallpox?




































































Good morning, son.









- Good morning, Petra.
- Good morning, sir.










































Isn't that right, Petra?
Good morning, Beata.






They were drunk at 7:00 a.m.
























Terrible heat, isn't it?



















- I don't understand, darling...
















































- Good morning, Countess.

- Really, we're having a great time.





















Isn't that right, Mr. Egerman?





















Really? And His Majesty stayed here?











































































Dear Karp Magnus, do you really think anyone can be seduced?


- What if the woman is married?

In that case, your main ally is not your personal charm, but the sad life of a woman married.


A woman as a seductor - is that possible?










We are sent to the world to love each other.









My children, my friends.

















































































This is the first one, from midnight to dawn, when the lovers open each other's hearts and loins.


































































































































































































































































































- So it's true.

















































































- Dear Mr. Ruby...


































Thank you, my friend, not in the middle of the day.








































An extraordinary woman.


































Good job.




























Really?

























































































- Good morning, Mr. Hugson.
- Good morning. - Mr. Burns.
















Last night, we agreed to go up to... to...










Should I ask you to introduce us to each other?











- She's just a good friend.
Your old Resistance friends at the restaurant scolded the police when you were released yesterday.




It's good to know I have friends.




Great. The police want to put me away, friends to kill.


He texted me this morning.











Daniel, you're still a girl, and she's a woman.













We talked like old friends!









For a child, anyone over 20 is an old man.
For the baby?


































































I prefer women who know what they want.













































You're an insecure, spoiled woman, used to attracting men.































































You've been looking at your mom all night, and you've never looked at me.





























































There's gonna be a lot of women with expensive stones.









































I'm no more interested in diamonds than politics, racing, modern poetry, or women who get mugged.































































































Really charming.



























Let's get to work, now.











































































- Is that true?


































































































- Good evening, Monsieur Berthany.

I never drink at work.





















Thank you, darling.
















- What's he doing on the roof? - He's doing your job.







































That you need the help of a good woman.


I needed a woman's help.
















































Miss Gravely, I don't want to hide the truth from you, I'm gonna hide it, I'm gonna take it to the woods, I'm gonna forget about it.
























I mean, we've been neighbors for three years, but we've never been to each other before.





















- A very good friend.






































































Is that the cute woman with the little boy?




















































Your work is very professional, isn't it, Mrs. Wiggs?























































































When I got out of the house this morning, I saw a stinking owl of drunken raspberry, full of fucking pottery.





























What about the woman with the baby, Miss Gravely, the tramp, and that man with the book Dr Greenbow?







What if the woman who called him Harry thinks she's still in love with him?

























Sammy, did you forget who takes the mail to the station every night?






































You're the most beautiful, most beautiful woman I've ever seen.




































































































































On the second wedding night, I found out the truth.

The truth was terrible.
The truth about Harry.























- Called the next morning.
- The next morning?
He bought a magazine in the hotel lobby the night before.























He knocked on my door this morning.

































































And you... you're a very nice woman.
















If what you said about Mrs. Rogers and her husband is true, I agree with you, Sammy.













































































I think I've had enough energy.























































































Like, "a nice day, isn't it?"




It could be Dr Greenbow, or a tramp...
















- Really?

I'm the kind of person who can recognize a good person even in a woman.





















































Poor woman.







































































































































































Yeah, me and my friend, a critic from the Museum of Modern Art...





I think it's the work of a genius, and I want to buy it all.



Besides, it's too expensive for you.
















































I'll come back in the morning and get all the paintings.


I'll have new jobs in a month.





























































































- Congratulations, darling.









































- Isn't that right, Captain Wyles?



















On the other hand, it's better to tell the truth and see what happens.









Sam, I don't want to stand here and argue until morning.




I think there's been some kind of disaster with him, Dr. Greenbow.



- He was my husband, doctor.


Nothing, Doctor.


















Isn't that weird?
























Good evening, Calvin.
Good evening, Captain Wyles.





























A tramp who can't find a job and drink too much.










































- The National Guard will be here in the morning.






Please, Doctor.






































Well, what did you find out, Doctor?












I'll explain. Doctor, you know,










No, Dr. Harry.


















He's kind of weird, isn't he?




















































Truth is, it's not about money.




































I have to flood the northern grove this morning.






































































- Good morning, Ben.








Well, to tell you the truth, I wouldn't be surprised if it happened.









You said you flew this morning?















What's the matter, darling?

























































































I won't forget, darling.













































Leave the bags in the kitchen, darling.















































I know, darling.

















Beautiful, isn't it?




















Honey, that sound, that buzzing noise, it sounded like a plane this morning?







I'm so sorry about this this morning, Dad.








- Good night, darling.





















Sarah, I hope you feel better this morning.










- No, honey.

Good morning, ladies.

















- What, honey?





















You need to finish the job.

Honey, stop by on the way to Ben Webber.
He didn't call this morning.

I'll stay with him on the way home, darling.











And my dad told me what happened last night.

























































- He didn't want to be rude, darling.









































































































You told him to be by 6:00, honey.
Mom, give me some work.






































































































Carl, this is Allan, your friend.










































































- No, honey.




I offer you life, yours and women, for a girl.






































A woman gets closer to you, stronger.













To tell you the truth, I just realized that.







We're connected.



























































































































































Hey, honey, look how great this dress looks on me.























































































































Tomorrow morning is his anniversary.









































































Good morning.


When I was a kid, I was sick of all that biblical nonsense.















Tomorrow morning, it could get ugly.





































































































































We'll talk about it tomorrow morning.

Tomorrow morning, I'll have something to say to our girls.





Honey, is everything okay with you?
























Do you have any idea what kids are like?

















Rick, we're gonna have to wait a couple more months, but we're running out of food.










































Ruby, you're my friend.









Tony, we're just made for each other.
You and I are worth each other.










































































































It's like a little baby crying.




















Rick, tell me, tell me the truth.










- It's okay. - Honey, you're gonna be okay.














































Maybe it'll be over by morning. I'm very tired now.













































































































I'll be a better father for my kids than this Rick.



































































































































Allow me, perfection among women, to defend myself.












































That's the power of women over husbands!

















Isn't the cause of your cocksucker's early death worthy, like the executioner?




















I didn't pray for a friend or an enemy, nor did I know my tongue.

















Then there's no truth in people.










Who's ever seduced a woman like that?
Who tricked a woman like that?

















































But spare my innocent wife, the poor children!















































The king is weak, sad, unwell, and the doctors fear for him.



















You're just jealous that in mercy, my friends and I are.























When you and your brother weren't reigning, I was a pack gag, a scourge of enemies, and a friend of his generous friends.




































Well, brave and faithful friends, are you going to finish this case?































I expect a messenger from God every day to call me. My soul shall go to heaven in the world now: I have made peace on earth for my friends:




Fear your empty oaths before me, or the King of kings will accuse you of lying in secret, and condemn you to death, which you will bring to one another.



Neither Dorset, you, our son, nor Beckingham, you were hostile to each other.









And if I need a friend and I'm sure of him, let him be a traitor.


































































The King has reconciled us all with each other, and I will remain faithful to the treaty.







Honey, I'm gonna figure out how to get us and the prince away from the Queen's arrogant relatives.

Cousin my dear, I'm like a child, ready to go wherever you take me.













Don't be angry because he's a kid.






































God save you from all false friends!






















The shelter is for adults, and for children it has never been.



















Edward's insatiable, my father, worthy York, fought in France and, by comparing the dates, he did not admit that this child should be conceived by them. Yeah, well, you can see it in the face. He and York weren't good at all.































































































































It's morning.

























































































We have decided that he should die as soon as you come to execution, my lord; as you can see, your friends have hastened.










Said Edward's kids were bastards?





Have mercy on God, don't say a word like stones or bruises, and, pale, look at each other.





I took advantage of that handful, I said, "friends and citizens, thank you."
















































And if I am for your desire, which expresses true love, I will reproach you, my friends.



























Goodbye, cousin, friends, goodbye.





























You're a rude babysitter, you're a hard-ass, you're with the children of my sweets, Tower, be there!


















Yes, indeed, sir.








































































You gonna kill my friend?











"There you go," said Dyton to me, "the kids slept."

- Forrest interrupted, hugging each other with his innocent and white hands.











Well, Clarence's son I have locked up firmly, and I have married my daughter; Edward's children are in Abraham's womb; Queen Anna has said goodbye to the world.








The west coast has a strong fleet, and the wrong friends of the crowd are running.








































Friends are cold!


If you're happy to let me go, I'll gather my friends and meet you there wherever the king may be.


I'm from Devonshire, my lord. I brought the message from loyal friends.

My lord, the county of Kent has risen, and to the Gildfords, new friends will grow; their strength will grow every hour.
















































Prepare your troops for battle early in the morning.


























































Twice the roosters welcomed the morning with a loud scream.
Friends got up and armed.

Do you think our friends will be true?


































































Good evening.




Let's join him in trying to solve the mystery... against his friends... and his constant premonition of trouble.

















































I'll see you tonight.





















































































































Good job.







Calm down, darling.




































































































































































































































You can take a walk... have some fresh drinks, have a chat with your friends... but please don't be late for our next show. To be held...

Good evening.



















Listen, honey, I have to go to work.







































Good morning, Mr. Spann.
Good morning, Mrs Fergusen.
So early for work?












See you tonight.























That sounds stupid, doesn't it?























































There's a doctor living nearby.

She ran for the doctor.






Did you come straight from work?





















I'll wait here until the doctor comes out... and I'll check on her.













How is she, Doctor?

























I'll come by in the morning.
Goodbye, Doctor.

















At the end of the day, it's our job.









Good evening, Mr. Spann.

















































































































































































































The government may build you houses and find a suitable job.

























































I'll tell you the truth.







Honey, are you staying the night?

We gotta get to work.



























Good evening. It's so cold.




































































































































Can you support a child and a sick husband?







You don't have to commit suicide with your family. We pay for a job the government doesn't notice.











Get back to work.



















































Really?













Women in places like this can't be called people!











































Even without the makeup of your beautiful woman's craft.




















He's just a kid.


After the holidays, there's been a mess at work.



My wife and children died during the war.











We can't even buy milk for the baby.


I'll see for the rest of my life a corrupt woman!












In five days' work, 1,200 yen.





















The driver from my job.













































Come in after work.















That's right, you idiot.

Worked from morning to night, and even one kimono is missing.
At least they pay for work here.

I was trying to find a job.



I was told that a woman wouldn't make $15,000.....and was advised to engage in prostitution.








































































Don't you remember crying kids begging not to hurt her?
























































Do you like the job?









Stop calling work.













































































Then give it back! They're worth my life!


























You can take good care of your husband and child, Hanae.


We pay for a job the government doesn't notice.






















































Shizuko, you're not a child anymore.



























I'm going back to the world, a boring planet where the truth denies fiction.



















- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning, Orndike.













I'm not gonna be able to get out of here before the club starts talking to each other.
















































He doesn't like hunting or fishing or women.
























From the woman, sir.
And how you're a lady's sweetheart. Well, there are no women in this house.





















And really, I'm freaking out.




























































Are you ready to argue that you're going back to London in the lub Eform on Saturday, 21 September I'm without a quarter of the nine of you tonight?

























I'm gonna keep her safe like... like a woman.










With a route like this, you'll miss out on Bailey and the women there.
No, it's impossible to describe the women of Baily.





And then you'll meet Indian women between Ranzisko and New York. The tattoos, the wild creatures of me.














No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,



























































Good evening, sir.


































































































What about women?
Yeah, women... they're luxurious.





Don't talk to me, tell me more about Indian women.



We'll be in Bombay by morning, Mr. 'ogg.































































And now I'm not gonna be able to join my team in Jabblepur, and my friend is gonna lose a lot of money.


























He's gonna burn that woman at her husband's funeral stake.

Are you saying that the poor woman will be burned?


Sorry, Saib, but this woman doesn't want to do the Satty, she was forced.
























































































There were women in his life?




He thinks of him morning, day and night.














We'll come to G Oncong tomorrow afternoon, and at 8:00 a.m. the next day, he'll sail off on an artifact.



































And ri cabins on an artifact." In the morning, he leaves for the... Okagama.









The ship is leaving tonight, not tomorrow as planned.




















And yes, my friend, twelve hours ahead of schedule.



























They're like children, don't pay attention to me.



















































My dear, I understand that an artifact's not gonna come back.





- Good morning, Mr. 'ogg.



























That's Foozy, I'm Ma. We'll be in the... window in the morning.






































"Thank you, friend." You're a foreigner, but it's ours.






















When I was six in the morning, according to our New York office, a merchant ship called G Henrietta.















From here on out, Mr. 'ogg, there's really a slight breeze, but I'm afraid you won't be on time.
























































I don't have any friends.





Mr. 'ogg, do you want to find both a woman and a friend at the same time?


















































A woman's leg hasn't joined our club yet. But why?











































Yeah, quick work.





















Good evening.
Good evening.
















Two tickets tonight.
































He's just sure I have a friend.
And what friend?



















I'm gonna get out of here and have a nice night.


















































































































































That's not true.


























I have two sisters and a brother and their children.


Let's not upset each other. Okay?


















































































I was the first woman to swim in and out of La Manche.
























But only loneliness pushes us towards each other. It won't keep us together.




























See you in the morning.













Really?




























Oh, I got a job at the Hathaway department store.















But with the new job, you won't be alone anymore.











We've been staring at his autograph all night. Some kind of mystical ceremony.


































Just celebrate my new job.








































Don't be, darling.









They shouldn't get married just because they're lonely and they need each other.





























































I don't want to go to work today.












I look at you every morning, and I realize there's a reason not to go to work.































I don't believe in married working women.






















































We've known each other since we were kids. We went to school together.





He left me, gave up his job.

















My address is on the envelope. I'm staying at my friends'.




































You're as his friend and as his mother.
















He's got a good job with the prospect of a promotion.




































Millie, darling, Hanson's home!

















I have a right to know the truth.





































I'll take them back in the morning.














Oh, Millie. We were kids. I forgot about it.













I'm glad, I'm sure it's true.




































Okay, we got married, but we were kids.























But, darling, why did you tell me your father died?












I'll meet you after work.





Oh, darling!






























Burt, honey, are you ready?
Honey?




Come on, honey, you haven't left the house in days.









































What kind of woman are you who's only half satisfied with this man? Is there something wrong with you?














































































Thank you, Doctor, but I have work to do.


I hope you'll forgive me, but I discussed his case, naturally without mentioning the names with Dr. Cazzens, one of the best psychiatrists in the country.


But if necessary, Dr. Cazens' coordinates are here.




Good night, Doctor.







With the doctor.


































I'll show you the way, darling.

I'll help you, darling.
You're gonna be okay, honey!











He's like a kid.
Yeah, like a baby with a mother.
But the baby has to grow up.































If you realize I'm telling the truth, don't take too long.
Doctor, how long are they gonna keep him?
































Do you really think a loving woman can answer that question?


Dr. Cazens?



Really?
Honey, I want you to remember one thing, please, remember it. I love you from the bottom of my heart.

Isn't that right, Millie?







Trust me, darling.


















































"Hello, Burt, darling.





































Please... some of my friends showed up at these institutions.







I spoke to the director of the sanatorium, Dr. Williams.








































- Okay, darling.














Yeah, it's me, your insane mistress upstairs, darling... came to say goodbye.






































- Good morning, Sergeant.
- Good morning, Mrs. Penmark.

Honey, when you meet your dad in Washington... will you get him to come visit me?








Bye, darling.







Have you heard anything about messing up kids?
















Darling, dear Aunt Monica!
Honey, I know I'm behind in life... but I thought the kids were wearing jeans... or combenisons for picnics.






















Good morning, Mrs. Penmark.






He's got a kid's brain, but he managed to start a family... so I decided to keep him.

Good morning, Miss Knucklehead.


















































It was a deliberate, malicious act of a neurotic child.








It's too beautiful a morning for such a tyrant.







Goodbye, darling.



















- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Rhoda.






Well, we have a lot of work to do today, but...













I don't know how to say it... she has one adult quality that looks weird for a child... and my husband and I went to school like yours... where they believe in discipline and old-fashioned virtues...

The other kids love her?

Other kids?









It was Dr. Kettelbaum in London.












Yes, please, Reggie, tell me about your last job.





It's just an adorable paranoid woman.




Just a little bit, to tell you the truth.



















Uncle Emory will bring you Dr. Kettelbaum's skull.


At that moment, I thought... that apart from Kenneth, my father was my most precious man... in the whole world.
















I always felt like I was an adopted child... and that Bravo's family wasn't my real parents.

Didn't you know that the substitution fiction... is one of the most common in the kids?





You've always had that feeling...












The most amazing woman in the history of manslaughter.


















For an important announcement... this morning... at the annual Fern Country Day School picnic...




Rhoda's too independent.







It was an 8-year-old Claude Deagle... the only child Mr. and Mrs. Henry Deagle had with Willow Street, 126.

The mystery is how the boy got to the pier... because the kids were strictly forbidden to play next to him.





Poor kid.

They're gonna send all the kids home now.











I can go with you... but I think it's best for the mother and child to be alone at times like this.










The truth was then he was covered with a sheet.









Oh, of course, darling.





- Okay, darling.
Terrible things were happening at Fern School this morning, weren't they, Mrs Penmark?





I can imagine how you feel, darling.



































Have you taken vitamins, darling?























It was such a blow to lose one of the kids...













- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Rhoda.













- Several times in the morning...







He yelled at her, but she was already on the beach... and went back to the other kids.








Kids hide a lot from adults.
Let's say Rhoda went after Deigles' kid to the dock.










Don't frown, my dear.




When we were gathered for flowers, for Deagle's funeral... from the children of Fern School.
I understand that children should help, share the expenses... but no one took the money from me.
I know, darling.



I don't know, honey.
I really...










You said she lost her only child... but if this event casts a shadow on Rhoda... then I have to live with it, too...















Of course, darling.








































Kids are terrible sometimes, aren't they?
















We can't have children anymore.








































That's what the doctor said.




















Poor woman.



















Honey, I'm so glad you called.



















Okay, honey, let's not keep him.
Bye, darling.





































Tell me the truth this time.


































Rhoda, please! I know you're a good liar... but I need the truth.
But it's true, every word!

And it's all true, every word?



















- Is that the truth?




























- We have nothing more to say to each other.

















Look me in the eye and tell me the truth...











































By the way, Miss Emily Post. You know you're invited to my dinner tonight? * Emily Post, author of a popular book on etiquette




Remember, Rhoda? Grandpa's coming tonight.

- Isn't Aunt Monica nice to us?












































You haven't said a word of the truth.
I'm telling you the truth, I figured it out.






































Is it true that if you wash the blood from something... the cops can still find it?
If they send this place a special powder... does this place really get blue?



When I was playing outside this morning, I heard some people talking about it.










Good evening, Mr. Tusker.




















He's coming tonight.



















Tell me, children can commit murder... or that's what comes over time... and grow up with a future criminal...
Yeah, kids do murder a lot.













- Hey, honey.



































I thought I could try to... write about secrets and murders in the evenings.


She asked if... children's crimes were always caused by their surroundings.


















It's like these kids are born blind... you just can't teach them how to see.



































She had a baby, didn't she, girl?









So you think she was one of those... unhappy, defective children born without pity?





You're gonna commit murder for murder... until the truth comes out one way or another.





























To tell you the truth, you're a real magician to me.
















I told her then that I was always worried... that I was a foster kid and...




















Whose baby am I?




Kristina, even if it's true... just remember that all this genetic talk is bullshit.












You were my only child.

















One night someone...








I don't remember much from now on. I was thirsty this morning.
































It was a terrible place and an evil woman!











































I'd better find a room and get ready for tonight.































Let's go first, and now you're gonna tell me the truth.

Rhoda, tell me the truth!



























































His editor called from across town, and he had to get back to work... and you could use it.
























In the morning, before the picnic, I was cleaning your dressing shoes.














































- I have a lot of work to do.






You really did it.





















































Try it, darling.





















Really, darling.




- Dear Christina.



Now, darling.














































You must have been one of his best friends.





You were with Claude when it happened, weren't you, darling?

































































Kenneth, my dear, my love.












By the way, darling, here's your sleeping pills and your vitamins... it's clearly written.



Reggie's having lunch with us, and he's leaving tonight.



































It's Emory, darling.































- Are you gonna be okay, honey?












"As it happens in those houses where children have...













































































Yes, Doctor.







The doctor will be out soon.

















Ken, I really can't remember anything like that.








Kenneth, darling, don't say that.


If it hadn't been for the shot, and if we hadn't called the doctor...






















- Can I talk to you for five seconds, Doctor?











Yeah, she started writing a book, something about the theory... something like a child getting criminal intent genetically.




Well, a kid could be born with a broken brain chemistry... with decent, healthy parents, but that's one case in a million.

- God damn it, if we were stupid enough to count differently... no one would ever adopt children or even have their own...

- Thank you very much, Doctor.


























I'm just gonna ask Aunt Monica tomorrow morning... when we go sunbathing.









- Yes, Doctor.





Kenneth, darling.





































































































Are you coming tonight?












Hello, darling.











I'll give it to you tonight.







































I know Mr. Daniels is just having a hard time tonight.






He finished renovating this morning.

I don't know. We have guests tonight.































You can't choose between having a baby and buying a vacuum cleaner, like....
Your baby doesn't have asthma.
The doctor says it's psychosomatic, but I know it's dust and we need new vacuum cleaners.






I invited them because of you, and you spent the whole evening here.











Remember when we hated vacations because... - they interrupted our work?




For having a baby.







































Give me one thing that was said tonight that would be... amazing. ..with imagination...



Richie, call Dr. Norton.

It's... in a book. Right next to the phone. Hurry up, darling!



















- Good night, Doctor.




















































- Ready, Doctor?





Otov, Doctor?



- Hello, Doctor.





- Hello, Dr. Rurick.





This is Dr. Rurick.




























- Yes, Doctor.









































Good morning, Ed.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.



The lab data.. confirmed Dr. Norton's initial diagnosis.




Dr. Rurik examined 10 or 12.


















I'll be right there, darling.









Learn how to cook and do it to him every morning.





























Right, Doctor?










I can go back to work today.









































This work on the schedule?

















- Kids, get ready to read.





































It's so expensive.

Madame May's shop doesn't serve women with an amazing figure.
- Only this morning...














































































You little kids broke something.














Your doctor told me you wouldn't be able to work for a while.














- Good night, darling.



















We must have been far away from each other for too long.





Go back to bed, darling.


Honey, what is it?








I'll call Dr. Norton.







Let's see how you feel in the morning.






Hello, Dr. Norton's on the phone.




























I'm not kidding... every night of the Parental Committee I want to work at a gas station.
Parents are no worse than children.

































And people like me need to teach these troubled kids how to read the word recognition system, as if our language were a collection of ideograms.
And we're surprised that our kids can't even read comic books.










If the Republic has to survive, we have to teach the old virtue of hard work again, self-discipline and sense of duty.








You're a great friend.














Yes, darling.















My old buddy takes my wife while I'm at work.

























A man's wife, a woman he expected to love for the rest of his life.
Suddenly, one morning you're free, released.







You should go call Dr. Norton.







I certainly can't teach you, Lou... a smart woman like you.

Go back to your old job or something.


















Without satisfaction, we run to the doctors for sleeping pills.



Why don't you wait till morning?
The words "teacher" and "doctor" mean the same thing.
Unfortunately, there are too many doctors and not enough teachers.
How long do you think this job will take?





- But it's so expensive.































No, honey, you don't have to leave.









I think it's okay, Doctor.





Are you involved in the prevention of viral epidemics, Doctor?



















All the kids play baseball.



































A lot of doctors are in trouble with him.








I'll call Dr. Norton.












































Dr. Norton's office.

Is Dr. Norton there?

Sorry, Dr. Norton won't be in town for the rest of the week.
Dr. McLinnan takes his calls, Mrs. Avery.


I'd like to speak to Dr. Norton in person.

































- He's just a kid.

I know something about kids, they're born lazy, and they're also greedy and lying.

The human brain is adapted to ten hours of continuous operation if required.

















You don't want this to happen, do you?



We'll go to Dr. Norton's on Monday.










Good job, kid!














Yes, darling.


If you think you fooled me with your soft... "Yeah, darling," "no, darling," you're a total idiot.
























- Trust, moral guidance... for our children from a prude and annoyance.






Children's debt to parents and parents to children.






















And I'm gonna call Dr. Norton to stop taking those pills.




















Please, darling.

We have to try to forgive each other.



















Abraham got up early in the morning and... gave him wood to burn... and came to the place God told him about.










It seems very unpleasant to you, doesn't it?

































































Doctor!




Why isn't Dr. Norton coming out?






Doctor, how's Ed?




























Doctor.














Yes, I do, Doctor.








































Dr. Norton, will you leave me alone with my wife and son?
















He's leaving for Mexico City in the morning and wants to talk to you.









































































Maximilian's friends were emperors and imperials.
But Juarez had only one friend, the Mexican people. Juarez, the great Juarez!











































































Is that true?





































- Kids!





























Isn't that true, Mr. Palma?

- It's true.












































The man who fights is an artist, and our friend Rivera seems like a really great artist!


















My friends are Miss Randall and Mr. Rivera.













- Is that true, sir? - Of course, really! But there's one problem, Leonardo!

Name it! It'd be nice if you took your friend away so we could drive to the ranch.











Do you know who's gonna watch my job?














- I guess we're just not used to it. - My dear señorita!
Americans slap each other in the ring pointlessly, and it's not considered cruel. Three dozen Englishmen with a hundred dogs drive a little fox to death.











Sometimes they attack even a horse, but it rarely happens to two-year-olds. - He's bluffing!



















- Honey, can you get me some wine, please?

- You find him interesting, don't you?




















I have the honour to introduce to you our dear friend, Mr. De La Gars, inspector of our school district.
- Friends, we're approaching the most important part of our ceremony today.















- Yeah, it's true.









































































We'll be there in the morning.




(S.H.I.E.L.D. - Good morning!
- Good morning, sir!








- Really?










What's his name? - Who are you asking? This is Dr. Gaona, impresario.








- Senor, is Dr. Gaon here?
Can you please tell me where to find Dr. Gaon?
- Senor, is Dr. Gaon here?

































































































- I can't order Dr. Gaon to save the bull, son.







- I need Dr. Gaona!



Where do I find Dr. Gaon?
- Dr. Gaona, I have a letter for you! - Step aside, please.
- Well, Dr. Gaona!


































































Don't be afraid, swimming and women look alike.













































- Good morning, ma'am.







- But it's morning, it's time to get up.























He has a quiet friend playing guitar at the end of the bus.


Really?








- Really?

























































































































Really, there's no respect there, either.













Good evening.












































































It means "my darling."






Really, I won't.











- Really?





Really?

Still, isn't it?































And tomorrow night after the finals, the three of us are gonna get on the bus.
















Cherry, we'll talk about this tomorrow morning.

Good night, darling.




I told you it was time to find you a woman.
















- Really?







- Good morning, ma'am.



- Good morning, Cherry.













Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I didn't go to bed until 5:00 a.m.!




































































Come on, darling.





















Nice work, Bo!



















- Really?

































On the field again, our friend Bo Decker.


















































I'm not going to the rodeo tonight.
- Go to the rodeo, and I'll find her. - Really?










- Really?































It's good to see you, darling. I was afraid you were trampled in the crowd yesterday.

























Good luck, darling.




























































Really?






































It can last until morning.
See you in the morning?








































Really?





































































































Virg, stop them, they'll kill each other.




























Good morning, darling.




































- I got it. No, make the kids breakfast.



























Elma! Wake up the kids.













Really?



It's true.


I'm gonna wake the kids up.





It's true.
I've lived my whole life at the ranch, and I didn't know anything about women.





















Really.



















Well, Virg says we're kind of balancing each other, and everything's gonna be okay.














- Really?



- Really?

- Is that true?
- Yes. Really?
Yeah, really, really!
- Is that true?
- Yeah, really.


Isn't it great when a monster suddenly turns out to be a prince?





























The morning comes... the last bat spins... whistles the first morning train...

In the story that's about to pass in front of you, the color of someone's hair, the style of the houses, the posters on the walls, the wall, the special, the manner of smiling and talking, is not a feature unique to these men and women who are about to live in front of you...











A little more and he'd be buried! Isn't that right, Doctor? Ha-ha-ha...

And when I got here, he had extended pupils and a pulse like a newborn baby!





Lucien reminds me of your favorite friend, this intellectual.







These are your friends! They're in a hurry. What else can I say?





























Of course, my friend, and you have something to do.










He lives in the town of Jiménez Calderón, a retired commander who gives lessons to those who are preparing for the Military Academy, and also the canon of the Cathedral of Don Anselmo, which is also our intelligence, and then I... here I am resting tonight, resting my soul...

Your friends.










And all the women...



My ex-fiancée, my friend.























































We need to draw up a plan of action. Goodbye night needs to jump.






















No, are you with women? What women?





























I'm always called to a job like this! Juanito! Juanito!






















My wife knows I have a lot of work to do.
Goodbye, dear Pepita.











Beautiful, isn't it?


















































I've been walking my friend.




















What are you laughing at? I'm thinking about my friend Federico.
























It wouldn't be so scary if it wasn't for one question: children!













Ooh! It's much more expensive!





















At the last ball, she didn't walk away from my wife and me and ruined our evening!














Out of solidarity with your friends! You're our friend, aren't you?

He's not a friend of either of us!


Calm down! Of course I'm your friend!


Don't you know that Calvin, doctor and I, we're all married?




























































































You're gonna be late for work!












I'm not a kid anymore!












Six o'clock. So I'll see you tonight.
See you tonight.













Lily's had a kid a long time ago, Susie's got such a good fiancé.




























...that doesn't make any sense! If I even get married this year and have a baby... oh, don't laugh... I'll be thirty-six years older than him. You know what upsets me the most?



























...this is gonna be my lesson! Your friend Louisito is calling you right away.






























You can ask for a vacation at home tonight. It's gonna happen!

































Your friends are bastards! And you...
































Isabella, darling! It's so good to see you.

























And what a soul! Isn't that right, Manuel?

Poor thing, darling!


Isn't that right, Manuel? Ah, Isabella, and we're happy!

Isn't that right, Manuel?

























Isn't that right, Juan? Yes, of course! You'll see how well we adorned St. Julien's altar.

































The culmination of this evening will be a tragic exposure of the seducer.





































Tell me the truth!
The truth!





Tell her you and your friends were just making fun of her to have some fun.

















And there's gonna be a lot of beautiful toys, dolls, animals... and stars on the walls. We're gonna have a lot of kids! Yeah, Juan?





























































Tell me the truth.














Then...... get married, not to mention her truth.



I love her like a dog or a sick kid.













One thing: telling the truth and you're saved!



The other thing is, don't tell the truth!





Yes, Louis and Calvo, Lucien and the doctor.


























































And then I throw myself at you, grabbing the shit, and we start fighting... of course, without hurting each other, but people have to think it's serious.


























Tell Isabella the truth! Do you hear me?
The truth! Two more days to the ball and you can tell the truth.











They're doing their job, and I can assure you, not bad! But besides that, there's no ambition!






















Don't be afraid of the truth like Juan. ...as you... sometimes it's hard to tell the truth.




Do you think your buddy... this Juan will tell the truth?























Oh... must be, about women?




































You're also with your truth, why would she?




Tell her the truth!























We'll go when my friend comes back.































Juan won't tell the truth.




Hmm... never recognize a man, friend.


















All the women here can only wait, standing on the corner... or on the square, under the arch... or walking down Main Street... or just by the window.


























Main street... his friends, this town, the boredom of Isabella province, forgive me.
I should have told you the truth, but Juan couldn't.


































See you tonight.





Honey.
Honey?






































Good evening, Yvonne.


Good evening, darling.
Good evening.













































Yeah, these for tomorrow night?












I'll go tomorrow morning.


I'll go to the train station tomorrow morning.



You want me to go? Is that really what you want?


Tomorrow morning, I promise.





Goodbye, darling.
















What's wrong with you? Are you sulking all morning?




































See you tonight.
See you tonight.








































































It's true!



















See you tonight? None















































They're great cars, though, aren't they?



























































Jimmy Walker will be here tonight.



























- I didn't offer you a job.

- I didn't offer you a job.
I remember saying I liked your game... but I certainly didn't offer you a job.








































I don't have a job here.









- Get a job at the pharmacy.











- Good evening, Miss Alrix.














You got the job.


A job?



























































- She's not a kid.


























Goodbye, darling.










































Got a job?












































- Have a nice evening.






























- It was a very interesting job.






























It's his job.




It was raining that morning... and I ran out of the house to show myself to the guests.









Not bad at all, is it?



























How do you like those friends of mine?

- Is it like this every night?



- Yes, a Latin proverb made up this morning.


























I bet all our friends think we're...




























































































I'm afraid I ruined your wedding night.


















- Now you listen. I'm your husband, and you've been here almost two months... I didn't admit we were having a baby.




























- Doctor, you're on the phone.


- She's not gonna make it to morning.













Have you seen the baby?










































































Good morning.
- Good morning.





























- I just want to get back to work.








- You think if Marjorie didn't have a baby, she'd be alive.









































































































Dear Peter, there's so much I want to tell you.
We never really knew each other.



















We weren't expecting you until tomorrow night.

























- They love each other.










































































Peter and I bought everything this morning.




















- Mr. Duchin, every child needs a father.

























































































- Let me call our doctor.






















- He's a great kid, isn't he, Lou?








Did the doctor see his throat?








- There are other doctors.





- Life can be cruel, can't it, Lou?



































We were fun friends, gentle lovers, like two kids together.
Who can you feel like a child again?



The birth of the first child.








I've never admired a woman in my entire life.



















The doctor used a colourful phrase--




- The doctor said...




- I told the good doctor that too.

- So we'll go to another doctor.






















































































And when you have to go to work... just walk down it...




















Peter, there's no one in the world more important to me than you.



















That's not true!


Remember when I went to hospitals, met with doctors?






















Doctor, it's definitely a beautiful horse!
Yeah, we're gonna get the horses in the morning.
















First of all, he eats too much, doesn't he, Dad?

Leslie, you know it's a hot horse for women to ride.











Really?


























I think I'm leaving early tomorrow morning. So goodbye!



Have a nice evening!














- Good morning.


And until 5:00 a.m., I read about Texas.


We actually stole Texas, didn't we, Mr Benedict?






















Thank you, Doctor!
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Leslie.
- Good morning, Dad!


- Good morning, everyone!
- Good morning, Nancy!
Good morning, darling, good morning, Mr. Benedict!
What a beautiful morning it is!











There may have been rumors that I'm marrying her, but that's not true.













Wake up, darling, we're here.


Good morning!










There he is, darling, our house.













You're my wife, darling, you're Benedict.









There's so much work here in the spring, cattle breeding...








But she said stay and do your job.



- It's true.



Do your job.









Sorry, honey, it's all upside down when I leave.




This is Bick's room, and this is your room, darling.







We drink coffee and talk every morning at 5:00 p.m., plan on what to do during the day.

















































I hope we'll be friends.






Friends, let's drink to the daughter of Meriland, who is now becoming a state citizen of a lonely star.










You haven't eaten that much yet, darling.















Good morning, Luz.








Good morning, darling.












Look at them, darling!








The result is right in front of you, darling.


Tired, darling?







Honey, I'm fine, really!


Good morning, Jett.













































I have friends and Madame loves me.


You're a little weird, Jett, aren't you?











These kids, these are the children of the people from your ranch.
These are Angel Obregon's children.

They look good, don't they?












The child is sick.





This kid is very sick.
















What does the doctor say?








I called Dr. Bourneholm on the phone.







- Mrs Benedict, this is Dr. Bornholm.


Dr. Walker did everything he could, I assure you. I have to go.
Dr. Walker, I'm afraid there's more work for you.
Mrs. Obregon has a very sick child.





I'll go with you, Doctor.



He's our doctor.
- Our doctor?







Jordan, honey, I don't think you understand.
There's a very sick kid.
I have to get Dr. Walker there.
You're going, aren't you, Doctor?

I'm much better, darling.






How's the baby?
He's alive, thanks to Dr. Walker.















Jordan, I think you'll agree that your sister was a generous woman.








I lost the only friend I had here, and I know that.


















Jett, I don't need to tell you that Luz was a sentimental woman.




































And it's true!



















Don't be in a hurry, darling.
























You're gonna get tired of this, darling.



You married me in Washington, remember, darling?










You mean my empty head, don't you, Judge?









What is this men's conversation that a woman can't join?



Go, darling.

Right, send the kids to bed so the adults can talk.


Honey, I'm sorry about my cavemen speech.










You come here and you try to teach us how to do things, you insult my friends.























Of course, darling...









And a woman who loves you very much.



When we make peace, we make peace, huh, darling?





















Let's hope it's a boy, our baby I said, let's hope it's a boy!

















I'm helping young Dr. Guerre get started here.






Mr. Gomez, I want to leave Dr. Guerre with you.


Thank you, Dr. Guerra.




















The birth of children has been good for you.













It's not very good, is it?




























Hello, darling.











Dr. Guerra did nothing but spread his hands out of terror!









My dear girl, did you think your naughty mom would never come to see you?







Oh, honey.






















It wasn't that bad, was it, son?

Up and down, but he doesn't know a damn thing about raising kids, just like his dad did.
You just do it your way and help these kids grow up and become what they want to be!













We've been getting on each other's nerves lately.




But we have a habit of yelling at each other about things we should have adapted to a long time ago.
Jordan, I think it would be nice if I took the kids home for a visit.





Better for us and for the kids.




- Good morning.













Yes, darling.







No... he writes, I hope my dears, that you're all happy.





Dear beloved, we are here before God and all present to unite this man and this woman with the sacred bond of marriage, which is a noble institution established by God.
David, do you marry this woman to live together under God's covenant in a sacred marriage?














































Leslie, go inside, take the women with you.

























I'm sure it's true.

Really?
















You're always free, my dear.






















It won't be easy, darling.



Honey, I thought.

Kids?
























































































It's the most expensive phone call you've made, Bick.





There they are. Come down, darling.




That's not true, Luz.
Not exactly true!











- Hello, Dr. Guerra.
- Hello, Dr. Benedict.
It's premature, Dr. Guerra.









- Goodbye, Doctor.



Friends. We're gonna have a triumphant Christmas.
























When I get home, I'll be working with Dr. Guerra in Vientesito.

































Your job won't let you leave here.






I'll show you that I have a heart when you come back after the war, your job, she'll be waiting for you!















I see, darling.























Everyone calls me Jet, darling.

















Yeah, Bick, but the oil tax cut wasn't unnecessary, was it?










Leslie always had a sharp tongue, didn't he, Bick?


Will you accept each other in good and bad, in wealth and poverty, in sickness and in health, for the rest of your lives?






Friends and neighbors, I want you all to introduce my wife,

















My dear Luz, if I didn't know that your young shoulders had Benedict's sober head, I would have prescribed a good twirl!







Honey, it's a coronation.






























Benedicts with friends.


































You like things your way, don't you, Jet?








It was my job.





















I hope this storm doesn't ruin your evening, Mr. Rink.




























Why didn't they come with us like other people's children do?










But don't worry about the kids.








You know, honey, you're incredibly good when you're angry.

Hello, darling!






Is that my baby?






Yes, darling.
Be there, darling.
























Luz, honey, you look great.










This, my friend, is Texas's scale.










Wait, honey. I'll be right back.























Jett, you want to know the truth?








And now I see Jett Rink... no fear of opposition, no hard work, his eyes far away, the goal he's working on, planning, thinking,



Oh, now for you, my friends, and for thousands of radio listeners all over the country, I have the privilege, yes,






Dr. Guerra set up a temporary hospital.










We've had too much excitement for one night.




I told you that the morning you told me, remember?








It's the pure truth.






















It's so embarrassing. I'll never forget this scene when my brother crashed into the hall where all our friends were and embarrassed us! Then my father made a scandal out of it.


Kids!



Luz, darling!
Tonight meant a lot to Jett.
Really.

















I know where he is, darling.






Ready to go with your friend?









Friends, here's a man.












She's a beautiful, wonderful woman anyone wants!
The woman that a man should have!









































And that coloured kid, he's Benedict, too?







He feels your mood, darling.



These kids!
Look at them, these kids in their unlimited wisdom are smarter than us.




















We're home looking after the kids.







Yes, darling. Everything's moving.





































































The same evening, an hour earlier, on the other side of town, patrolman... first class Randy Keenan was supposed to decide one depot.

















































They have a job, they live a normal life, but everyone... has a problem, and that's Clay.










































Johnny said you were a good friend.




































A woman your age.


























































- Of course, darling.






























Go to your friends,




















































You have a husband who spends the last penny on you... and doesn't ask questions if you come from a movie at 9:00 p.m.






Honey, what's your greatest interest in life?

- Money and women?


Wait. What do you mean, money and women, honey?


















Let's say it's true.
















If that's true, it's much bigger.




















They're just gonna get paid as a one-time job.

Only pay for the work done.











Johnny, are they sure they're gonna do the job if they pay up front?









































































It's ugly, but it's true.










- Really?














We understand each other.


I have good friends.






























You know, I don't look at other women, and they don't follow me.



Honey.































Sorry, honey.









I'm looking for a friend.
























Identity is a monster who needs to be strangled in the cradle so he doesn't annoy his friends.






Johnny, my friend, you were never a poet.



























For a job like this, you can find a hundred-dollar jackpot.











- Beautiful, isn't it?











Work.




















































































I'll send the money to our friend.


Four days later, Sherry Pitti woke up at 7:30 a.m.










































I gotta say, you've changed since your friends punched you in the face.
























At 5:00 a.m., Red Lightning got half a feed. They started preparing her for the seventh race at the 100 grand prize.
At 7:00 a.m., Johnny Clay had a day that could be his last.








Unless you lose your job.





We're... we're not gonna see each other after we separate the prey. But you're my best friend.












It would be awful if you contacted the wrong woman.



I'll be back after 7:00 in the morning.






I'll bring a suitcase tonight.


Your flight is at 9:00 p.m.



- Good morning.


A friend will leave a package for me tonight.




- Interesting friends of yours.








See you tonight.


















You'll be late for work. Ruthie, soon... our business will go uphill. - Yeah, I got to go.

I know, darling.



Of course, darling, but hurry up or you'll be late.






My friends and I have a case...


- You'll be sick again in the morning.




Thank you, darling.











But Mike, after work, all these flowers will curl up.

After work, it's all closed.










But, you know, after work, everyone's in such a hurry to leave...































More like before they kill each other.






















There are things, dear Fisher, that are best left out.





























































Okay, I'll get back to work.










This morning, I thought it was gonna be pasturous, but it didn't work out.


I'm really grateful to you, mister.






























































































































- Johnny knows how to pick friends. - I need a drink.


































What did you do, darling?




























- Good evening.
- Good evening.




- No, we passed everything this morning.

















- Good evening. My wife and I... are going to Boston.

















































































































It's something, isn't it?






You can't stay a gifted child all the time.






























With three kids and all that debt!































I gave birth to three children...





I'm ashamed of my own children!




This kirios and a friend rented rooms upstairs.












Really!








- Hey, buddy.





















Tonight, let's go sing serenades in the moonlight.
































- Good evening, Marina.
- Good evening.







































































































Good morning.












We're friends, aren't we?


































































- And your friend?










I'll tell a friend, but I don't know how he'll take it.


















Tonight, when...





























Why wouldn't he get a job?














Is it true you're leaving us?




































- What if I get a job?


If you're serious, I can guarantee you a job.






































Come on, darling.
















Why didn't he leave with his friend?



























Our children are drowning!

Children...


Children...
Save the children...
Kids!






















- that he's gonna take the kids?




























Good evening.









Children...


































About that job... can you give it to me?












Good morning.



























- For all the work?










































































So the letter was true.









































































"Would it be better if your friend came to try it on himself?













Tonight.






















































Okay, but I've never done a job for a fool.








No, because it's not fair work.






































You can have a job. Why not? You're gonna love it.


















































Go away, children!
















You don't have to bring it to the old men... or the kids, because it's just a waste of time.
































































Do you like this job?





Come alone in the morning before I start serving.




















The important thing is that you like it, and this morning you loved it very much.




















Oh, I'm sorry, man, I forgot my glasses, so look for the number.





































I've done my job well, and I've done my best for eight days.























































I'm killing myself at work, and you're trying to trick people with that scammer.















































































































































See if he's got a criminal record. And bring the baby...








































































































































































At least 3:00. In the morning, I pay two pesetas for a bag and no more santima. If you want to work, no, go away.








































Leave the baby, you bastard! Listen!












































Go away! Kids, get out of here!




























































































Ogarev was a brilliant officer, wasn't he?
















































































Nikolai Dmitrievich Korpanov, 38 years old, born in Prafka, residing at 16 May Street, Irkutsk, married, has no children.





































An Imperial Courier on a special mission and dragging a woman behind him?





But it is equally true that most women are unable to keep secrets.
Especially foreign women.






Call the woman waiting in Commander Radovsky's office!






















Is that true?






































You still have a mother, don't you?












They've been asking us this morning.

What are you complaining about, my dear?


















































I hope it's enough; I bought it in full this morning, and it was used to rob me:















Good evening.








By order of the police, not until 6:00 p.m.

If I'm bothering you like this, order me to go to jail and pick me up tonight.






































Don't worry, I'm not a kid.








We're going to Perm tonight.
































Do you know what they do to women who fall into their arms? How's that?


You think that's true?

















































































And an Imperial courier officer would never kiss a woman on a mission; the rules are strict.


















































































































There's no proof it's true.








Tomorrow night we'll be near Omsk.































We have nothing to fear from these Tatars, my friend. We're French journalists. We're neutral.






























































































I didn't know there were women like her.




What you just said was that you didn't know there were women like her.







No need, my dear, Mr. Korpanov wanted to leave you in a kind word, that's all.




























Please, my dear; given that my journey will be much richer than yours, it will give me more time to make it.































































































Mom! (baby voice from afar)






















Tomorrow morning, three columns are set up and will come together under Irkutsk.




























Who else would an old woman kiss if not her son?









Tell the truth!
What kind of rot do you come out of torturing an old woman?
















And our friend Korpanov could kill him with one left...
















































You were told to torture a Russian officer, weren't you?

Really.














































I'm not talking about women, I'm opening them with you.





































Leave the paddle alone, old man; we'll wait for our friends.






























































Every day, at 5:00 p.m., I start looking at country outposts.









- You're exaggerating, my dear.












Tomorrow at 5 p.m., as usual, the great prince will travel through the west gate of the city to inspect the country outposts.




















See you tonight.
































































So I ended up in New Bedford. There was a frowning Saturday night of the thousand eight hundred and forty-first year.

















































































































It's true.



















We're friends.

































































Now your dark-skinned friend.



































Well, friends, good luck.













Your boys are gonna cost more this year.















Flask, the third assistant, hated everyone who was stronger than him, especially the whales. It's like he took revenge on them because Leviathan's children insulted his ancestors.


















































































































































Quiqueg, my friend, that's what happens all the time?

































































































































































































































































































We stay here until 8:00 a.m., then we get up on the oars. Let's go north. All the time on the oars.





































































































The blacksmith, there's a job for you.






























































































Who makes these things hunt each other?











































































































In a sad search for the missing child, another orphan was found. The drama is over.
























Honey, that's the look I've seen before.











- Oh, good evening, Maria. He's back, so he's back.






































































The climb begins tomorrow morning.



















































































































































































- It happened early this morning.
- Oh, Servoz, he was my friend.














































They were big friends.













































































































































































































































































































































































































And when you're the first time in your life to get up here, all you're doing is twisting two irons and talking like a baby...































































































































There's really no elephants like India, but we've got bitches. There are crows, lots of birds, mountain goats.



This is my friend.











She says, "The woman from the crashed plane." He brought it upstairs alone. Then we got on the wagon and went to the mayor's.


- Where's the saved woman?
You said on the phone that a woman would live.





















After your brother died, did you drag a woman all the other way alone?









She's... she's a very beautiful girl, isn't she?








It's true!






And then I robbed the plane, you know that already. My brother found an Indian woman.








































































































































































The men fled north, and the women fled south.








They said this morning, the tornado came in tonight.











































































































































































I washed dishes every night.



























- Is that true, Lizzie?







































On Saturday night, they were all going to the rodeo dance.




















































































- Good morning, darling.














Really, Lizzie?















































I just want to be a woman.
You're a woman, even though you're not married.
No, Noah, not a woman.



But that's not all that means being a woman.
















When I needed a job, you made me your deputy.







































































































"You don't have any real friends 'cause you're hot."
- You just don't know how to make friends.























I want to be your friend, Jim.































A man who doesn't make friends, even though the whole town loves him... and respects him, doesn't make the right decisions.







































Isn't that right, Snookie?
I hope it's true.
So, what's the truth there?



























You know, Dad, I really think so.
























































She can go to clubs on Wednesday night... giggling and flirting on an equal basis with any of them.



































































































































































Saturday night, I lost more poker than that.









































































If you all act like her, it'll complicate my job... because when there's suspicion around you, it's a drought.

Look, friends, a call to rain requires a lot of confidence.


























































































If a woman dresses up, she must be waiting for her date.























































- No, really. You're afraid to believe anything.










You don't even believe you're a woman.
And if you don't believe, you're not really a woman.



































- Of course... he's got the easiest job.























































































- They're connected to each other.


























Pa, can a woman take lessons on how to be a woman?

You're already a woman.

If Starbuck doesn't see you as a woman, he's blind.


























- Good evening.


















- I really didn't.


































To think he's really here.




































Too many people are lonely... and if you're lucky enough to be needed... as a friend... that's your duty.













































- If a woman wants to leave, let her go.












































































I'm the only one who loves you enough to tell the truth.


































The sooner you face the truth... the sooner you stop hurting your heart.












- Lizzie, honey, please.





I'm gonna bring presents to their kids to make sure I'm welcome... and Noah's gonna say,














































































There are many millions of wonderful women in the world with wonderful names.



























Melisanda, what a woman.













Small, modest dreams that come to a woman when... she polishes silverware and puts it in the cupboards of naphthalene.




And that children laugh, get bored and make noises.


















- You're a woman, believe it.





There's no such thing as an ugly woman.
All true women are beautiful.































Because when you said you were beautiful... it was true.


























- Good evening.













































































They could get to know each other better... before you know it, I'll have a new brother.
















































































































You'll get married and have children.


































































Yes, darling?











































- Really?

















































We spent the evening with this guy.


Come on, friends.

Is that true, File?





















You will no longer walk through life as a woman who hasn't been asked to do anything.





















Goodbye, friends.

























































Good evening, Uncle Ethan.








It's true.
























It's not very expensive.


























































































Children, go with Lucy.

































































































































































































































































































































Look, Martin Paulie, I'm a woman.
We women wash clothes, and even mine while you're little.























































































Really?






























































































































"Dear Miss Laurie."



"Dear Miss Laurie.


That means Fatterman's dead, darling.































To get her family to take off our scalp for insulting one of their women?






































No, not my woman.



































- Sarge. - They're all in the chapel, Doctor.





























































































































































To tell you the truth, I barely recognize myself.






























Good evening.





Good evening, Reverend.































How dare you talk about marrying any decent woman?



































































Good evening, ma'am.







































Good evening, ma'am.















You don't think I'm crazy, really, ma'am.





























It's too late, she's a grown woman.





















































Nice work, son.






























Nice work, Captain.
Nice work, son.

































































Really, Annie?





























I think that's why I've never been able to hold on to one job.































































































































































I was a kid when I got there, Clit, but I wasn't born there.







































Three of those months, I tried to get a job.
But a job that would match the ex-sheriff wasn't required anywhere.

But pride wouldn't let me. That's why my wife had to get a job.














































Why would a decent woman like this agree to be with an unworthy man?


























A man becomes powerful with the love of a woman like this.





Most men don't like doing women's work.




Any woman will be happy next to you.


A man must be able to protect his woman.

























Mr. Greer... how did you get married to such a beautiful woman?









Of course, it doesn't mean that women don't fall in love with people like us.

I knew a young woman like you, Mrs Greer.


First of all, you need to know why this young married woman is just...






















The one who took a woman from his comrade.

















































It's weird, isn't it?
I'm gonna run into each other here.




















The woman who was murdered in Silver's bank office... was his wife. Stride?




































- They're gonna kill you, aren't they?





- She was a good woman.










- There should be a doctor.









Get on Stride's horse and get the doctor here.





When we were passing through Silver, remember when I said I got a job?

It wasn't exactly a job.









































































































































Friends, my first task as your new chairman is sad.


































Well, friends, that's the whole story.

























I don't want anyone to think I'm curious... but is it true that he'll make $175,000 next year?





















That's about 10 hours of work.






























So, it's true that I quit the company. I sold all my shares.




I sold my shares because I didn't want to hear a hint of favoritism because of my work in Washington.
















































It was a wonderful meeting, wasn't it?











A serious reduction, isn't it?

































- Really?






























- Really?
























































I'm telling you, Jack, we have to do something about this woman.














































































Miss Partridge, at the shareholders' meeting... you showed great interest... in the work of our company.
In fact, we are so impressed with your understanding of the company's problems that we would like to work more closely with you.



Well, it's gonna be kind of a multidisciplinary job.








Well, if you really need me...
We need you very much, don't we, gentlemen?

How much will you pay for this job?

















I know this is another job for you guys at the office, but believe me, she's gonna have a ball.
































- Now I'm ready to work.











Your job will be to make them happy, friends of the company.
















































You like him, don't you?




























- Dear Jimmy.







Dear Jimmy.
















































Dear Mother.
I still like my job... a comma, but I still had nothing to do with it.














I really shouldn't do that.


















Still, Mr. Blessington told us to start a company of new friends.


My name is Laura Partridge... and I'm just a woman like you, unless, since you're Mrs, you're probably married.
I'm still single because I'm a working woman.










































































































She wants to meet this... tonight.

































I came to the government hearings and promised the guys I'd drop by tonight.
















- No, really...











And very soon they were so impressed... by how well I know about the company... and the questions I asked them that they offered me a job.









Oh, you know, it's an exciting job.




"Dear Miss Partridge, thank you for writing.













"Dear Mrs. Rogers, I answer your question:






























And, you know, mostly people keep photos of wives and children on their desks, and I don't have a wife and kids.

Really.







Mostly, they want to know why I'm not doing my job.
Why aren't you doing your job?






But, in a way, it was good for me... the truth...











It's funny, though, if you think it might have been an actor's picture, because when I was a kid, I thought I'd dive into his pussy.




























And there was a friend, a neighbor son, who we were playing with.




It was a childhood friend.


I told Prator that this man used to be my friend.











Well... I wanted the truth from you.





Really? Well...














































I wanted to say something, but you were so happy at work.

































My husband lost his job after 22 years in the same place.





































All right, gentlemen. So we understand each other...
Miss Shotgraven gets the job back.


Laura, how many women's forms do you think we need?

























































She's always complained that the decline in dividends hurts her dear shareholders.








































The French ambassador asked about Thursday night.

































































































You're afraid of women.
















- It's brand-new and darling.
















You said I was afraid of women.





























- Really?








- If your work here is done...
















But I really have to catch the last plane.















Really?


















































































Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.

























And he was still accompanied by... right, the mystery woman who left Washington with him... after, by a strange coincidence, spent the night in Washington at the same hotel.




Now, ladies, let me tell you about the double shade, the new hair paint that can turn you into a mystery woman.





















































Tell me, Laura, it's true that Mr. McKeever's coming back to the company?
















Snell is so juggling paper that the Apex Clock situation looks like a financial genius.


















I know how much you love this job.




































Miss Partridge, isn't it true that you went to Washington because you wanted to see Mr. McKeever again?
















































































Oh, what a mess, huh?




























You're out of work.




A man has to go to work. The job he loves.

But if he has nowhere to go to work, how can he go back to the house where he's... happy if he's been at home all day?























All these people who write me letters are my friends. All those shareholders, they believe me.



"Dear Miss Partridge, how are you?


I took very expensive pills, but I think health is more expensive.

Usually, I don't bother to refer to these trusts, Miss Partridge, but since you and I were writing to each other, I now feel like part of the company."

















































































































































































Laura has so many friends.
















































Let's get to work!





































Doctor...



















































































Sute and Senkichi were close friends of their brother.















































































































Dr. Minamoto, what do we do?
































































I have a friend in the volcano lab.
























































































































































































































You, and 50 more of our classmates with their kids.



























I had a garden when I was a kid.









I was supposed to keep them close to each other.

But it didn't work. Terrible, you know... I can't do my first job in my life.














































































































































You know, these boys come here completely unaware of everything about women. And spend the next four years exchanging disinformation.


























I used to sew my own buttons when I was a kid.




The first time I tried cooking was the night the maid had the day off.

I used to watch her put a piece of butter on the pan, so that night we had bacon fried with butter.









































The one of you who does this will know how much man he is. Women's success and stuff.














It's true!







I'm telling you, Al! It's true!






If he prefers a company of women, it's his business.













Women aren't allowed?




























Nothing, darling.




No, of course not, darling.































































I bet he won't show up at the Pajama Battle tonight.
















Remember what I told you - be careful when choosing your friends.


I want to be your friend, Tom.
I know there's something between fathers and sons that prevents them from being friends. But I want to try.




There's gonna be a fire tonight.






















These guys are your friends?



























We'll be waiting for you tonight. Exactly 7:00.

















































































I think they're gonna make him run around on this Pyjam fire tonight.
















Okay, darling.


































I told you when I brought you here a year ago, that this place could be very cruel to a woman with a heart like yours.





It's just this age. When I was a kid here in this school, I had problems, too.




















































At this stake tonight... you must fight! Come on! One more thing.




















































































































































































It's because he and Mike's father were roommates and... I can't tell you how much I admire what you did on the fire on Saturday night.





















































No, I... it was terrible, wasn't it?






























































Why don't you stop by Ellie's on Saturday night?


















































Oh, that's very nice of you, darling!



















It's so rare for us to touch each other.





We don't touch each other anymore.

You don't feel like you're getting away from me until it's insufferable, and then... oh, Bill, we don't spend any more time together-- no quiet nights alone, hand in hand, feeling close to each other-- the way it was in Italy.






































Yes, darling, of course.
And, Laura, you don't have to see Tom so often. And invite him to tea, all the time, just him. Yes, darling.

















Okay, what time do you finish your job? 9:00?








































What a rough night, isn't it?



"Have a nice evening."





















When I wear a blue suit, I look like a baby.








































































































































Tom, don't leave tonight.



















Hello, darling!









Nothing, darling.












Pretty, isn't it?






Stupid, isn't it?




Really?


















































































































It's true that Tom went with this girl, Ellie, to her house.
It's true he went there for the same thing the others did.





It's true.




I think you should know the truth.







































Bill, he's really on his side.












I knew last night what Tom was going to do.




















Why can't we face the truth?



















Oh, Bill, is that really what you want?













After last night.









Tom, honey, you don't have to think that... what else do I have to think?







You kissed me last night.

















That's a lousy room, isn't it?


















Really?




















Dear Tom... I guess I'll never send you this letter.



Tom, honey, I just read your book-- your novel about your school days-- about us.

















Dear Tom, I was so happy to read about you getting married.


One thing you were right about-- a woman has always kept her affection for a boy somewhere in her heart.










What a fabulous job!


















I called the cashier's office. There's no tickets for the evening.
























































Hello, darling!


















I stopped by after work, and I was lucky to have my reservation taken off.





















Coming, darling.







































Coming, darling.











Why, darling?





























































Poor Marion... it's her birthday. I was planning a little party tonight.

And the kids couldn't, everyone's busy.



I'd love to. Really?








As I canceled all the meetings, closed the office and brought me to the afternoon performance at this theater. Really?






























Really?



























Kids are gonna freak out about him.































Work, year after year.









When am I gonna meet Marion and the kids?










Cliff, it was a lovely evening.






































Okay, I'll see you Saturday night. At the hotel.


















The doctor's on his way.













Yeah, kids tend to be dramatic.
Dr. Kaufman said the tumor would come out tomorrow.

I don't care what Dr. Kaufman said.








I'll send Andrews a telegram. I'll meet you in L.A. this week. No, darling.


















It's a fighter's place. Three women for a guy.




A woman alone can't do that.














































































































Mr Groves' friend is Miss Vale.
















Maybe a colleague at work?






















I'm not that kind of friend. Shut up.



They also say you have to wait for women.






















I told you, I saw my father with that woman and I heard them.
Probably just a co-worker.
















And in New York, my few friends.



















Having fun, kids?





































Doesn't dad look great?

Nope. No, I met an old friend.





















Cliff! Shouldn't we invite Miss Vale tomorrow night?







You know, it's a great scene where a hero convinces a woman of innocence with a simple reception, tells her so much truth to look innocent.
Really?








Dinner tomorrow night?







Tomorrow night...
























Well, you know, it's a memory for a woman.

















Really?






















Cliff, honey, you know how she feels about dessert.































It's no use talking to a woman.































And thank you for a lovely evening.







































It was a nice night.
It was a disgusting night. Oh, honey, not at all!







I invited an old friend to our house to meet my family.
I was hoping for a nice evening.
Thanks to the kids, nothing like this happened.

Because I'm tired of the children's self-control.




They started this morning, and all day long, a talker walker works, and tonight, they started eating food, eating dinner, and going to bed.

I know kids aren't cheap, but I don't give up.








I'm in charge of the farm, I'm looking after the kids...






Of course, children are always more important than I am.




Honey, constant adventures are very tedious.
Cliff, honey, don't stay there long, you'll catch a cold.

We need to get the laundry off the bus, get the books back to the library, take Frankie to the dentist, buy something for the kids...
Cliff! Honey, open me some hand cream, please.







Cliff, excitement and success aren't as important to a woman as it is to a man, they don't rule out the possibility of being alone.




She doesn't have what a woman needs.
She's successful in a big job, but today I was proud and grateful for my children, my home, and of course for you, darling.

Honey, turn off the lights, please.


















Isn't that creepy?






































I must congratulate you, my dear.


Goodbye, my dear, and congratulations again.









Miss Vale! Isn't that amazing?






Cliff? I'm excited, aren't I? It's the words of an unmarried woman.












































I mean, it's not all night?





He told his mother he wasn't having dinner at home, he was having a business meeting tonight.




Good evening, Mrs. Rogers.








To love such a child!














What a nice cool evening.

That's right! I get it.








Mr. Groves. It depends on their little whims what women wear from Seattle to San Diego.
Norma, I... Cliff is a very old friend.




Amazing evening, Norma.






































After work.









Well done. Sweetheart, take this to Mrs. Rogers.









Cliff, did something happen at work?













As usual, children.














































I've just come from work.

















Listen to me, children!
In Palm Valley, two old friends ran into each other by accident.


















About me? Despite your indifference and rudeness at the dinner table that night.





















































My 20 years as a businesswoman given to design and commerce.







But you have a beautiful life with Marion and the kids.













He ran off with that woman, remember?





You know you're gonna want to see Marion again, hear her voice, fight over bills and kids.

















She's a wonderful woman. This isn't a surprise for me.

That I was a kid?




















Gloria, honey, the question is, can a guy like me love a basketball player forever?








































It's such a beautiful couple, isn't it?



















































































Well, the police are the police, doing their job.












Good evening, everyone.










































You're working tonight, aren't you?





I'll stay with my wife tonight.


So I'm busy tonight.






Stupid or not, but can I find out where Madame is going tonight?



















































First of all, are you free tonight?
Not tonight.









Is it hard work?













































If you let it go, you can say goodbye to the women.
Well, women...











































Good evening.










Congratulations. That's a great job.












We're at work.









































Your friend scares me.









Really, there's a lot to thank for.





















Our friend Janbier is joking.


Listen, Mr. Janbier, now that we're friends, if anyone asks me about your pig...























































Not at work.

















































































Really? Janbier didn't pay? He didn't say why?















Can't you wait for your friends?
Friends! I know, I'm your friends!
Friends are waiting for you on the street.




















And Curon Lucien, born Grenai, forty-nine years old, no children.















































































And who's gonna give me a job tomorrow?





























































































Well, the job's done.





































You must be married, Mr. Policeman. Yeah, but I don't have kids.
















































Well, well, well. Must have been delivered tonight.

Look, they're coming tonight.















































To see. That's why I went with you, my dear.












I work for him. You know what a job is?
You want me to lose my job, don't you?



















































































































































































But I have a lot of friends.
















Unemployed? Unemployed, my friend Martin?

I don't know, he's my best friend.















What do you have to tell a friend of Granny's?















Prepare a list of all the French men arrested tonight. It's for Shersh Media.
















































































































He went to a building occupied by women.
















To tell you the truth, if I were you, I'd jump out of the car, too.





























No job, no news, terrible loneliness. There were about 100 of us.











The work was moving very slowly because I was afraid of noise and I was afraid of getting caught.












Despite that, I continued my work, and it distracted me from thinking.


















On the evening of Blanche, his name was Blanche, was by the window.































And friends?
I don't have any friends.



























A month of patient work and my door opened.

























































































































































































































































































Really?





































































You help a friend.

































Good luck, my friend.


























































How's he doing? The doctors say they could die any minute.


























Isn't he great? Who would have thought Mom and Dad would have such beautiful kids?



Petya, women's words must always be treated with humor.




















































So, my friends...














Is the old man really dying this time? The doctors are sure Count Bezukhov won't make it to the morning.
























Don't think I disagree with you. Every morning I wake up feeling ashamed of what I did last night.










I want to know how men and women feel when they say words of love.


















Why are you leaving? I'm married to one of Moscow's most beautiful and worthy women, but I can't stand this marriage.




































But our journey was a success. Isn't that right, Pierre?





















Kids, go away!


For a long, long month, until the baby is born.





































And you know me, he's busy from morning to evening, he's been crucified in food and drink, so he's healthy.


Don't say no. What, my friend?













Speak, speak. When the time comes for her to give birth, send her to Moscow for a doctor.
To the doctor?



































It's not fair to look at work until it's done.













As soon as men go to war, they forget about women.

























































Good luck, my friend.



















































It's gonna be so much fun and fun in Moscow! - Pierre... - What, darling?




The hospital may die without your presence. And they can teach kids all kinds of stupid things without you.














Nothing, darling.



















Vasily Denisov, your son's friend.

























Sonia is my best friend. She's gonna love someone forever.


So she says you're gonna forget all this. She said, "I'll always love him, and he'll be free." Isn't that noble?
Really? I never take it back.











The doctor and I met at the station.








My friend, you must leave.
















Don't be rude to him. You have to cherish the husbands of pretty women.
That's right. Let's drink to the health of beautiful women!
Yes, to the health of beautiful women! Pierre?












































My friend...


I'd probably behave the same way. We stood in the snow, pointing guns at each other.










































I think this is my friend Prince Andrei Bolkonsky.





















The Rostovs are very nice, aren't they?









































































Tell me the truth!



Excuse me, darling. Nikolai, stay with your mom.




This evening is gonna be like a terrible black cloak in my life...















We've only seen each other once, but I can't forget him.








































At first he came to us every day, in the morning and in the evening, buzzed my head, and now he's gone! It's over.





















































She's just a kid!






Is that true?
Is it true you can't joke with your life anymore, now I'm big, now I'm responsible for every word?



























































Isn't that wonderful?






























Now we can wash the bones to all our friends.



Every woman who comes here is jealous of you.


















Really? I didn't notice.
I haven't looked at the stage all night.






























How was your evening?








I can't hide from you anymore. You know we love each other!
























































Okay. Well, comrades, friends of my youth, we walked, we lived, we drowned. Now, goodbye!





















So have fun with women like you. They're armed against you with the same depravity experience.







































But one thing I'm asking you to do is consider me your friend.


































Come on, my friend. You must have your own opinion.

















































































Come on. A lot of my friends are leaving, and they're younger than me.



















































I remember. I told you a fallen woman needed to be forgiven.

I can't. Can you compare Natasha to a fallen woman?


































My only friends are the ones who will fight with me tomorrow.






























































- Doctor? - Yeah?




























































































































































































































































































So, my dear friend, I lived at home, here we have rich land, and our house, thank God.












































































She's a good woman.




What does the doctor say?






That, my friend, should ask the doctor.

















No kids, no adults.



























































Russian women.








































































































































Isn't that great?




































I'd better take the kids home.








Why would a guy with a wife and kids go on such a crazy expedition?

Dr. Eldon Galbright and his crew of adventurers haven't been in touch for hours and there's been the worst fears for their fate.



Dr. Galbright, still no signal.













































































































































If Jaffy hadn't been the one that was just needed, I would never have taken someone on board with my wife and kids.









































A week before our flight, I was at Dr. Ellender's.


















My wife and children grew up and died.














































He was based in Japan after the war, and his wife and children flew to him.






































































- I'm Dr. Galbright.

















Do you know Dr. Ellander's theory?

























I hope you don't mind, Dr. Galbright, but Maurice is right.



























Elaine, this is Dr. Galbright.










Is she as beautiful as women in your world?



































Do you think all the women here are as beautiful as the ones we saw?



















Hank, I know you're hurting your wife and kids.











Dr. Galbright, the president of the board would like to see you as soon as possible.























If women vote here, Pretty Boy can run without a shirt......and he'll be elected president.


Why are women so energetic, full of life and men not?










































Where are your friends?


To tell you the truth, I was hoping you'd show them to me.
To tell you the truth, I was hoping that, too.






















Your friend makes me sad.
- He survived his wife and children.












Dr. Galbright is looking at the historical records of those years when you left.


You know, I think our friend is a little jealous.



















































Women are amazing, aren't they?


But today I have a unique experience. I was flattered, pleased, I felt welcome to beautiful women who fought for my attention.


























Well, honey, don't look at me like that.







Forgive me, darling.

I've been told that things hate children that aren't touched by ugliness.

- Is that true?















Don't you think it's weird that we haven't seen the kids?
16 and 17-year-olds, yes, but no kids.


There were 14 children in it. 14 out of 2,000 children.
And those kids weren't strong and healthy.



































Looks like our women are backwards in evolution and have not become intelligent creatures.






She said things don't drive away all the kids.

- You mean normal kids?

They need them for work.










Hello, darling.














Because if you stay here buried in the ground like moles, your children will die.
How many kids do you have here?


Your children need the sun.










That's not true.






















She believes Dr. Galbright and his men are honest.























































































We all grieve for Maurice, who was a friend to us, despite the fact that weakness of character led him to hatred, betrayal and death.



I'll send our architects and masters to help Dr. Galbright and his men.


Are you okay, darling?



























































































































- It's not your job.












If we blow them up, then we kill every man, woman and child in the caves.




















































The children of those we once hated learn our language so that they can work with us.


But as long as there are kids who need him, he'll be happy.
A couple of months ago, some of these kids were weak and weak.




























































But here's the woman...
































































































































Does she have friends there?








































In general, they seem quite satisfied with each other, they like to live in a group.







Every male or female immediately attacks each other.

Are you saying they're trying to kill each other?














































































Yeah, but he's our friend. We're...












You really think I'd...

















































And don't say that shit about going to Franklin with your friends.






































Good evening.





I read the job ads.


Looks like it's a job for me.






I think I'd better get back to work.





- Of course, darling.




I'm writing about your job ad in the newspaper room for that number.


I've been married for 27 years, I don't have children, my health is excellent.















I can still do this job better than anyone and they can get... the salary they paid me.

















Is that true, Mr. Crabty?



I really need this job.




















Your job, Mr. Crabty, will be to draw up confidential reports to be sent to your employer.

































Your work is important and confidential.












That sounds too good to be true.




I'm sure it all makes sense, darling.




If your job didn't suit them, they'd tell you.












Bye, darling.















Do you have any problems with your work?




















































A few years ago, I married a woman whose first husband we thought died.




The only result will be my wife's accusation of polygamy and the destruction of our children's lives.









Dear Mr. Crabtree, what can you tell them?








- Really?
















































Go to bed, darling, it's almost 3:00.
Yes, darling, now.



Dr. Foley's coming tomorrow.


















You've taken away my job.








































I came to get the money from our mutual friend.























It's true.



















Not much to work on.


I didn't get the job.





















Honey, just tell him what happened.
That we've both been sick, that we've taken wherever we can and you can't find a job.


Honey, did you forget that we came up with something to tell you?



Well, honey, you remembered that perfectly one night... when you drank too much drinks, you were gonna go see him.





















































































































Honey, I'm already involved.








Darling, of course, with you.





















I'll come, darling, I promise.



























































Yesterday, late last night, Paine shot and wounded...














































Good evening, friends.










Poor woman.





























That's a good idea, isn't it?












What made him go to work in a town like this?

Good night, darling.







Honey, I'm even hungry.
























Good evening, Mrs Fenton.






Really?



















I just don't understand how a woman with that taste could choose such a man.


Honey, the way the Blanchards live, it's none of our business.






Sorry, honey.









Of course, darling.

















- Charles. I need friends...
- Friends.


like a normal woman.

But you're not like normal women.
Normal women don't get drunk and start a fire in their own house, and they don't go out in the middle, and they don't get away with it, and they almost knock the kid down!
Normal women help their husbands' careers, not destroy them.





































These men are like children.





































I'm so sorry to bother you, but I think a woman has just been murdered.












Don't worry, honey.













Truth be told, he got so angry that he packed his bags in a sports bag and ran away in the middle of the night.















I'm crazy about silver, but probably like any woman.



































































People don't kill each other like that, my love.





You're laughing, darling.






They just found a woman's body.



























In honor of a friend of mine.



Good evening.



















































You've always been an awfully good friend, the only friend other than Jeff.






























I thought I should find something to do after work.

But I need something to fill a gap when you're on a job or on a trip or supporting clients, don't you think?





Besides, she's an old friend.





We don't dedicate ourselves to each other anymore.


























Really, Jeff?
Really?
Yeah, really.













Yeah, honey, they're in the office. I won't hold him for more than a minute.


She's full of weirdos, darling, and if you smile nicely at them, someone will tell you what his analyst ate for lunch.




You're not gonna be, are you, darling?































- No, really.

No, really, I can't.







It's okay, honey, really.






Jeff, do you know how unbearable it is not to be able to remember what you did last night, what you said?











Women
- Smart women.



When I see you with another woman, when I see you dancing with her, something inside me explodes, and I think I need a drink or I'll do something terrible.







I thought women understood that intuitively.










They're from your job, aren't they?





















Will you have ginger ale, darling?


Renee, darling, we're leaving.



































































Let me take you home. Sweetheart.













You killed a man. Last night.











Are you interested in my work?
























Tell me, darling, what is it?





Okay, let's celebrate at home tonight.






































































































































It's true.















































- Really?














Mark, darling, stop protecting her. Why don't you admit it?


- You know it's true.
















































Have a good night.
















Jocelyn, darling, come down for a minute.





































But it is also true that we continue to live in the minds of others.





She was a very exciting woman.





No man on earth could own it, really.




















She came one night.

























































Good evening.


























He's really gonna be very cute, Ellie.













Walt Norton gave it to me last night.


































Women like big cupboards.































































She won't be back to work until tomorrow.












So, kids, now we need to figure out the division.



















So, kids, you can go home.




























I'm sure one of the kids wrote it.








































We're all sad about the early departure of our good friend and neighbor, Waltra Norton.








Stay with me soon it's gonna be a night.








No kids.











Good evening, and thank you for watching me tonight.








It's called Crawl, and it's about a man who, in a special way.............................................................











These poor women

Ordered women do not allow themselves to be killed.














A lot of nervous women in the county had the same idea.



- Your husband went to work?




Both women killed had their husbands working the night shift.


















But these women lived in five houses from us.

- Even a child can open this castle.




































I'm going to work.






















My Joe's gonna be late for work today, so...







By the way, some newspapers say that maybe the killer might be a woman.
Some jealous woman who suspected her husband of having other women.



Such women deserve what's happening to them.


















Only if our friend doesn't strangle someone soon, he'll be on the front page, you mean Crawl?


And then he's gonna run out of women.
You really think it's funny, don't you?
Well, Ellen's on the verge of hysterical, like almost any woman in our neighborhood.






























Take, at least, our friend.
He removes his anger by killing women.










There's nothing strange about looking at a beautiful woman.
















- It's really not gonna bother me.

























You look like a woman in a story.














It's dangerous to be alone with a woman like that.










































If you knew child psychology... you'd know that a lot of kids are cruel.



















- Really?








































Women like you always end up getting what they deserve.






































































Honey, they think he killed those women!





So again, the Crawler committed the most heinous act against a woman:







Good evening.







































- Really.











Steven, I'd like you to meet my friend.










Derek and I are having a poker party tonight, would you like to join us?







Why don't we play poker tomorrow night?























You know, I really believed you were serious.

Really, a lot of people don't believe.



























































































Really?
























He was expecting his daughters to come from school on the Continental, but they arrived a day earlier, in his absence, so there was no one in the estate except the elderly caretaker who finished his job and left before dark.
































Do you do this professionally, or are you just entertaining friends?









































I feel really good.





















































































By the way, the search could take the whole night, so while I'm looking here, why don't you look over there.





- Only for you, darling.





Why don't we get married tonight?







Honey, you're never gonna lose me.


















































































But you're gonna have to learn to live with it, darling.









But you're not special, darling.





































































































































































- Only for you, darling.





Why don't we get married tonight?
Honey, it's not that long.







"Dear, I love you so much, but... sometimes when I close my eyes, I can't remember your face.




Honey, you're never gonna lose me.







































































Good evening.


















My dear Cecilia, you look adorable.





















He's in a race in Sebring and he's coming here tonight?














































- I'm gonna grab your vitamins, darling.










What can a poor woman do?











My dear, today the entire female population of Palm Beach is on full alert.







- Howard gathers beautiful women.












There's a friend of mine.



















Same thing my friends drank.










































Really?



Well, who's gonna dance every night with their mother...















































I see the most amazing woman I've ever met.





I'll make you the happiest woman on earth.





















Burhan has reached 136 miles an hour, but it's not official information.















- We can be good friends.


You're the only woman I've ever loved.



















Look, I'm sorry for the intrusion, my dear prince... but Mr. Cole is looking for you everywhere.








But tell me, can he really do that?
What if he really kills himself?































Do you really think the prince killed himself because of his unrequited love for Mrs. Cole?
























































Honey, can you get me a palantine?



- Okay, darling.
















Goodbye, darling.





Here you go, darling.




Really?





















Good evening, lady.





















































And that woman at the store, she wanted to buy something.













This woman.





























Maybe you'll get lucky, and there'll be clumsy women coming to see you.


















































































No, Mr. Appleby, I'm sorry, but I can't accept such an expensive gift.












- Good evening, Ella.



Good evening, Mr. Appleby.













If he's lucky to meet a woman he can give all respect and affection, he has to say it.









I have no interests other than you, darling.

































Remember, she's a woman and I think she loves it like everyone else.



It only provides that you will inherit one another.


Now for the last condition... something very close and expensive for Martha.







I've never understood how women can be so ungathered.
You look tired, darling. I'll clean it up later.














Does he have to call every night?
Appie, he's been calling me every night since my dad died.








- Yes, darling?

Every night you come back later and later.

















No, darling, I'm afraid not.




Martha, darling!

Wait a minute, darling.















Marry other trusting women and kill them, too?




























This concludes our entertainment night.

I'm sure that tonight... we made a significant contribution to the promotion of carpeting.

























































































I'm not the kind of woman who asks questions and walks around until they find out what they want.






















Yeah, my darling, shut up, Ma-tel-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh














I'm gonna call one of those dirty pubs where you walk around and hurt other women.





We know women who killed lovers for less.




































































































































It's true that going to the dentist is about the same pleasure to this old woman of yours.

















































I'd die of shame if you talked to this woman.
Emile... I'm annoying. Really?






























Look, Emile, I admit that I acted harshly, you hate being told the truth... or, let's just say, being told what annoys you.







































Nice work.




































































Really.























































- He did his job well.





































































































































Let's get to work.





























































And the woman on the other side of the street? Isn't that proof?




A woman...














You don't believe the boy, but you believe the woman?






















But on the other hand, the testimony of the apartment neighbors and the woman across the street... it was convincing.
'Cause they were talking about a fight between a father and a son that happened around 7:00 p.m.
































These kids... that's what they've become.

Really.


- Do you have children?












Children...







It's no secret that slum children are potentially dangerous to society.





























Don't be a kid.


As a child.






























But maybe the boy's lawyer was just stupid, wasn't he?

















































Third: 8.45 a.m. outside the bar, the boy met friends.



He spent an hour with his friends and left at 9:45.


































































































































































Really?


























































Suppose you convince us, and the guy did kill his father?


















A woman looked out the window across the street and saw a murder.























































A woman across the street swears she looked out the window and saw a murder through the windows, through the last two cars.



The woman saw the last two cars. So the body fell on the floor as soon as the train passed.



- Really?






















































"I'll kill you, darling." "Baby, I'm gonna kill you." "Rocky, kill him."

















































































A woman across the street showed that she saw a murder when the train passed. Then she screamed and called the police.




























































































































































































Then he went to bed, heard the body fall, and the woman screamed, and he pulled up to the door, heard the steps, and thought it was a boy.































































































































































































































































Understood, my friend?

- It's over, my friend.



























































































































To them, the truth is nothing.


























































First............................................ The testimony of a woman who actually saw the moment of the murder.




Let's talk about this woman.

Her bed was at the window, and the woman could easily see the boy's room across the street.













The woman saw him.




















































The woman who saw the murder had exactly the same marks on the edge of her nose.










This woman is about 45 years old.




A dress better suited to a younger woman.

These are women.





























What kind of woman wears glasses if they ruin the view?






























































































































Kids, or the people of the sea?



























I appreciate your optimism, Doctor, but we have that kind of data.






I'm sorry, Doctor, but according to these facts, the missile is already among the fish.










She fell into Sicily, Doctor.







- Then call the transport office and let them know that the doctor and I will be on our way to Sicily immediately.


Mondello, go get the doctor.






The doctor's not home.



There's another doctor from Rome who travels with his granddaughter from America.






Do you know where that old doctor from Rome lives?
Dr. Leonardo?




Then bring the doctor right away.
Dr. Leonardo!




Easy, easy, my friend.

Yes, and our only doctor is now with Signora Martinelli, who will have twins or triplets, or even more who knows her.

I'm a doctor of zoology, not medicine.

- You're the doctor who treats people?








Dr. Leonardo.

























- Yes, Doctor?

In the water, Doctor.













- Doctor.
Dr. Sherman.


Dr. Sherman!





I'm a doctor. Or almost a doctor. And this man may be dying.
Okay, well, "almost a doctor." And you know what's wrong with him?





- Dr. Sherman!

















Doctor, how long can it live in a metal cylinder?


















What is it, my dear?

















Let's go inside, darling.





Look at our unusual friend.











I'll see him tonight and tell him to find you tomorrow.






This is Dr. Yul.




















You did an amazing and impressive job.







Dr. Yul.





What I say may seem incredible, but it's true.















Dr. Sherman, the chief scientist of the expedition, is also terminally ill.




































































You know, I thought our friend was probably some kind of mutation, but what kind of animal is that? I don't know.











Oh, hello, "almost a doctor."






All the data we have is in Dr. Sherman's records.
























































































Would it be objectionable if Dr. Yul and I tried to track down the creature and take it alive?










































































You've probably heard of Dr. Gerhardt Blancfurt from Vienna, probably the best anesthesia specialist in the world.


Dr. Blancfurt keeps passing 1,800 volts through his body.





This is Dr. Koroku from Tokyo University.
He's helping Dr. Yul.
Another attempt to reveal the secrets of the creature, Doctor?

Can you tell us what conclusions you came to at this stage, Doctor?


Dr. Yul is on the platform.























Dr. Yul is expecting you.
Dr. Yul, may I introduce Miss Reynolds of the United Press, Mr. Maples of the Reuters?







By the way, doctor, there are rumors that guns don't hurt him.




The dynamometer is being picked up on the platform, Doctor.









































































There's a witness called Dr. Boris Winkler, Artian, an antiques salesman.




















They treat us like children.



The public prosecutor is charging you with aiding and abetting a sexual offence through pandering and aggravated by your relationship with a person who has sexually abused a child.





Tell us in chronological order to understand what happened after the day your son Klaus first met Dr. Boris Winkler.





Klaus told me that school was over, the kids were running out the gate, and he was going to his motorroller, and at that point, Dr. Winkler came over and talked to him.





- Are you Dr. Boris Winkler?








Thank you, Dr. Winkler, but my scooter's here.
Don't call me Dr. Winkler.
Friends of my friends, my friends.
















































He has friends everywhere.
















































































He's sick, darling, I had to visit him.


























Manfred is and will continue to be my friend.


Is that true?











Feel better, darling?




















It's true.












I'm gonna read my new story tonight.

























Isn't that true?
- Yeah, it's true.









Bloody women.










It's a school job. - Sure.

































































- Sunday night?































You're not gonna tell the old man about this, are you?















Renata was so upset that he ran away in the middle of the night...



































I locked him in the room because he told me he was meeting Manfred tonight.








Don't make a scene tonight!






































By the way, they were going to see Dr. Winclair.












One 19-year-old boy killed a woman just to steal 18 marks 50 pfnings.











You're acting like our kid's completely lost.




Come on, Max, I finally want to know who Dr. Winkler is.










We'll see some of his work tonight.








Frau Glac, I don't understand why you don't want to give us Dr. Winclair's address.
I don't want to cause problems for Dr. Winclair.




I want to know where my son is and what kind of man this Dr. Winkler is.








Herr Taichmann, I know Dr. Winkler loves Manfred.










We can get Dr. Winclair's address to the police.










I'm sorry to interfere, but I think you're too idealizing Dr. Winclair.















I feel like we've known each other for a very long time.

We'd like to see Dr. Winclair.



Dr. Winclair isn't home.


Where can we find Dr. Winclair?
Dr. Winkler didn't tell me where he was going.



Thank you so much for kindly letting us look for Dr. Winclair.
Good evening, gentlemen!





















Dr. Winclair isn't home.
To be just a weak woman,



- is it a woman or a man?

- Ah, a woman is an impostor.









You dream of a woman, a woman suddenly here, and she confesses to you...











- Yeah, yeah, we'd like to ask if we can find Dr. Boris Winkler here?
Oh, you're Boris' friends!












- To be just a weak woman,


















The world, my dear Werner, is full of shadows!














































































And raising a woman isn't enough for him.







See you tonight.


















































































I want to consult, Doctor.









Well, he's got a high school friend who's taken him to visit an art scientist who we found out...




A woman's true love.























Women are guilty, don't you think?

I think women are responsible for a lot of things.
Sometimes a woman doesn't know about the power she has over the man she loves.



When a woman really loves someone, she can endure a lot, and even forget about something.









Bring your things well tonight.























Have a nice trip, darling.


You're not gonna spend every night at Manfred's or Boris', are you?
Not every night.















Dr. Boris Winkler?




























Can't I invite a friend to come here?























































Really? Are you looking at everyone like that?






























We need to talk about last night.







Are you coming to Boris's tonight?














You shouldn't ask women that kind of question.

































An old woman?


















Dr. Boris Winkler arranged piano lessons for me because he wants me to play an electronic body in his house.














Dr. Boris Winkler gave you an unequivocal hint?











You mean the bachelor party Dr. Winkler spends in his house?

















If you really want to know, my dear, I've never been there.



















































Oh, darling, darling, he can make a lot of noise.



















I'll come tonight.








Your complaint against Dr. Winclair has nothing to do with the charge against you.





















Is it true that Fraulen Gerda Butcher works as a maid in your house?








This was stated not only by Dr. Winclair, but also by your son.








































I love Klaus Taichmann, and I've done everything women do when they love a man.


Should it be recorded that you've done everything a woman does?












Yeah, it's more likely that a woman will talk to another woman, my son runs the risk of becoming a homosexual, so help guide him to the right path.





















































Stupid woman, you really got us into this!









We're dependent on my work.











































I was the cause of Dr. Winclair's statement.








Do you have visitors, Dr. Winkler?




They're all my good friends.















If you don't have anything wrong with this woman, nothing will happen to him.

So it's true!


























When he receives a specialty or profession, he must create a family, have children.












Is that true?





They love each other.










I may be wrong, and I hope so, but according to section 181, pandering is punishable by imprisonment, if there is a connection between the perpetrator and the pimp, i.e. the child's parent.



But they love each other.
I know it's not right, but they love each other.

















Dr. Winkler!

























Since the crime is related to the accused's son, the court does not deny that the mother did so because of concerns about her child's development and possible danger to his future life.













Look at the kids.






















But this movie is a friend of 0.




But since it was the first stop on the main route, there were 100 brothels and 1,000 Shogun competing with each other.













































- Stay away, woman!



























































A prostitute with a baby?







































Hey, man, we're running out of drinks.




"A man shows strength, a woman shows charm!"






































































































- It's your job.

Women must like you.







- I'll talk to your friends.

Don't embarrass my friends in front of the ladies.










































































































- My friends are gone?









When I have a drink, I'll take a bath and take a nap, it'll be tonight.




These are my friends!












































































































































































Kinzo, darling, you're here.





Order something, and don't be niggardly, darling.






























Oh, I'm so happy, Kinzo, darling!

























































Kinzo, darling, I'm gonna hold off.





Damn this woman.






























I'll wait for my friends to pay, won't I?

When are your friends coming?















Isn't pee funny?
I'm gonna go see your friends...











As a man, I can't do the job that local women do.

















































Maybe our friends are in Kyoto.








































- This job isn't for clumsy amateurs.


























































But there's this woman I'm marrying...






Look what I got from my woman.













Really?




























I don't want to hurt your son in any way, but he's still such a kid.
Come out, "baby"!









































































































It's not about our dignity. He's taking all the paid jobs.





















































Truth be told, I'm dead!











































































Bummer, darling, you were great.











- Really?

My dear Stupid, sometimes I need your help.














Toku, darling!




















































- I don't think you're telling the truth!








Really?
























































































Now we're chasing each other?


His uncle in Senju lives in a big house without children, and loves a young master.



























































Amazing, my dear Bug!





I've never had such a good bath, my dear Bug.






























































































Damn you, woman!

























































Come on, I just want to see if we're good for each other.































































Bummer, darling!







Bummer, darling, you can see better from here. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






















Bummer, darling, you're gonna have to pick one of us.

Sorry, I can't sleep with women.
When I was hanging around Yokohama, I had chest pain, and Dr. Hapburn noticed me.
He said to me, "No women."



Tomorrow I'm going to Yokohama, and if the doctor says I'm okay...
I'll follow Dr. Hapburn and go to America.







Bummer, darling, I promise myself in this letter.









































- Where's the doctor?





























































"The baby"?
It's a baby's grave!






Finish your work!




Finish the job!














































Will you tell him the truth?





I am the commander of this camp, i.e. Camp 16 next to the great railroad that will soon connect Bangkok to Rangoon.

It's gonna be a nice job that requires certain skills.















"Be happy in your work."
Be happy in your job.











Really?
























Hunger, work fatigue, gunshot wounds, Saito snake bites.
















- Really?




















































































"The warring parties may employ all prisoners fit for work, except officers--"


















All listed prisoners, to work.

Take the people to work.












You'll have your officers go to work.


If you and your officers don't go to work in the count of three, I'll order you to shoot.

























































This afternoon, the work was supposed to reach the level shown here.



The listed prisoners sabotaged the work.




















The doctor's going to visit the old man.
































People do a great job.





Really.




















































So you're not happy in your job.


I won't hide the truth.










We'll be happy in our work.










Good evening, Colonel.
























































Tell me, Colonel, do you agree that the chief job of an officer is command?







...is capable of doing work of such importance.








Really?
And may I ask, are you satisfied with the work?




























































No team work.
Some groups work against each other.






















If they didn't have a job, we'd think of something.




It is essential that they be proud of their work.

















All the work was pointless.




























As the British will work on the bridge for railwork, there will be few people left.






































It's true.



















































Then let's say tonight?


Tonight?









You're sorry, but you have to leave me tonight.








































- It's a great place, isn't it?








































































































When the Navy finds out the truth, they'll say,


































Really?












Our guys are doing a great job.



























































I've already told you in this job, even when it's done, there's always one more thing.





















The regular army reminded me of my work in civilian life.










































Your local knowledge, your friends in the village.











The goal is the most important part of our work.











It's one thing to play with explosives like a kid with a fireworks--





















It means our porters will be women.










He'll lead you to the river the way I've never walked.






Be happy in your job!





















Yes, sir." 1................................................ Work at the original site of the bridge has been abandoned.















































Do you want to send him to work?









Painting, removal of sushi.

How can you do a little light work on the bridge?


















Use the knife, or we'll shoot each other.
























But when the job is done, who knows if we'll come back this way, and can we even find you, sir?









Explosives and C pills are good for each other.



















It's such a solid, thoughtful job.

































Yai will take three women to help you.













It's a top-notch job.





















I'm sure I'll speak for all of us if I admit it was a very pleasant evening.













Nice work.

You're ready for work.







































































"Dear Katie Ferguson!


















And the woman?








































































You've got your job, we've got ours.
Your job is to raise children, make dinner for his husband when he comes home.

"Dear Mary Dana.
I write from the heart like a woman to a woman.

♪ When we're alone ♪ ♪ poor women ♪ ♪ loyal to men ♪
What do we turn to except the compassion of another woman who understands our suffering?


























Miss Ferguson, you don't want to interfere with our work! Never mind!













































Dinner tonight?









Tell me, what could be the most desirable happy marriage, children and family home?







Boat, man and woman. Everyone's saying goodbye...
















































It hurts your job.















































I wish you all the best, darling.

































I know the name, age, place of work and occupation.











































































































It's okay, honey.








A wonderful woman.














Isn't it tempting cheese and olives, Sarah?
























The one where the inspector praises Charlie for his excellent work in the Keiman case.















There's a woman.





























Stop talking to me like a stupid kid!





I can't take another night, not a minute.
















Honey, don't, don't.









Job, position, rank is nothing.


















































I think driving is a big responsibility, right?








No, honey, you said:



Honey, finish your drink and bring Katie in.

























Tony's gonna want to get back to work on Monday, but...




You really think...
You really think you're gonna stay?
All men at parties are like children, especially unexpected.
He's gonna be happy talking to his friends, and then he's not gonna say anything to you.


























































Honey, the Commissioner is threatening to order his party.













Better for your friends.







Yes. It's a big job.




Not that kind of woman.






But what drove you to work in the paper makes you do something.









Looks like most of them are women.
Maybe women have a easier approach to life.


































Find a quieter job with less responsibilities.

































Something about working more closely with him.


































Did a woman write that?













































































































He's coming tomorrow night.

















































































































































































































Do you have to, darling?
You just came from work and...
































































































































Actually... I'm looking for a job.








































































- Looking for a job?










And you, dear friend, don't need my help.





It's full of work.



Get to work.



I'm a friend of Charlie Malik's.
I was told I could get a job here.






- No, I'd like a job.






We can trust them to drive carts, but you can't put them on a load job anymore.

I mean, it's full of work.

Your friend's here. Looking for a job.
My friend?
























- Get this man involved in working with Malik's crew.















I'd like to thank you for helping me get a job here.
This job brings you seventy-one cents an hour.
Every hour of work, you pay me the fourth part.













You know, I remember when people like you weren't hired here.













Just because you put me in this lousy job doesn't mean you're my owner, okay?
Do you want this shitty job or what?







































































- That's something, isn't it?
















































































Real talent, isn't it?





























Come on, finish up, and get to work.












































Listen, do you want to take a ride away from the center tonight?





It's great, isn't it?


















































Let's just say sometimes, we didn't even have to talk to each other.














































































Every night on Sundays and Thursdays.


I'm sure if he had a girlfriend, he'd show you a few things, wouldn't he?



That's right, so... humiliated by his wife, slandered by his best friend!





You know, Tommy doesn't have a lot of real friends.










Where are the kids, Tommy?


- See, it's her turn to suffer on Thursday nights.















































The problem with your friend Tommy is that he's suffering from a deep guilt complex.






As two members of a oppressed class of women, we'll wash the dishes.


That kind of thing is important, man, I mean, it's the good thing about life.








































































































































Look, if you're not doing anything tonight, would you like to go bowling with Tommy, Lucy and me... yeah, and me?


























Look, I hope you've taken the gifts to this house and the land, darling, because today we're gonna smash you into pieces!






































And from now on, I'm not babysitting on Monday night, Tommy!


















- It's great, isn't it?

















I'd love to, any night except Friday.
I have Friday night classes.


























































































































Boy, I'm your friend.


















































You don't want to bleed all this beautiful, clean hangar, do you?


























































I really don't know anything, Officer.


























































Do you really need me?






















I was Tommy's friend.





















- He was my friend.
















































You were his friend, but you weren't his friend.






















































































Just like a three-year-old until Mom slaps.
- Mommy, honey, I'll wait if you're ready.






People do their job. Okay. Effective............................................

They're doing their job.












































































Well, Major, we're done here.

































































































- 14th road, behind the road.


















































- It's the devil of a storm with a wolf's face and a woman's body and wings.




























































Invincible logic. Brilliant, but true.





- Whoever said that, he's not my friend.
- But he's a friend of mine.
































































You're like a kid, Mitch, think about it!



And with the wolf's head and the woman's body and wings more than you can imagine!"







































There are too many cases and they come close to each other too well to be just a coincidence.

































































































































































Dr. Carol Neuman from the research lab is calling.

Dr. Neuman, this is General Concidai.






























Doctor, are you saying this bird is antimatter?


Doctor, the existence of antimatter is proven. But it was also proven that if antimatter came into contact with ordinary matter, they would destroy each other, explode.












Dr. Neuman, a few questions.







- Yes, Doctor.
























































Well, Dr. Neuman says she absorbs energy from what destroys, including humans. A kind of molecular osmosis.







It just proves the saying that the truth is even weirder than fiction.






































































































Crazy kids!

































You probably know that, Dr. Neuman.

















This lab, Dr. Neuman and his staff, Sally, to help with math, and an empty check for materials and equipment.






















We can't afford to kill a patient trying to cure a disease, can we?


















































Doctor, me, and a man to make calculations.




























































Honey, it's time to get out of here before it's too late.











- You can argue with that. - Really?


You're as shit as I am. And I'm tired of hearing that. The plantation in Georgia and all your friends.


















































































































- Good evening, Mr. Earp.



































Good evening, Halliday, hand over your gun.
Good evening, Harry. As usual.



































































































































































Women have the right to play.
I know, but every time a woman's at a table, there's always a problem.



























































- Good evening, Charlie.


I spent half my life working paper.

















































- Really?











- Good evening, Miss Danbo.
- Good evening.



- Have a nice evening, Mr. Earp.

Have a nice evening, Mr. Earp.





































































































































































Don't talk to my woman like that.
- Your woman?
It's a woman of everyone.




























































And my men are ready to dance with your women.













Let your friends see how cool you are.












































She's a good woman.














































































It's a signal for women and children to leave the room.










I hope you're not here for work.

She's asking me to quit my job.
You know women.











































He's got a lot of bastards and he's gonna move her somewhere else. Really?














Maybe at least you'll feel sorry for your woman. Enough with the deaths.




































Aren't you going to say hello to an old friend?



























































They die, and neither a friend nor a woman comes to their grave.









My friends are gonna worry if I don't come back soon.


Really?















































































It's okay, honey.


























































Let me die with my only friend, Kate.


We didn't care about each other since we were born.














- Go back to your friends.

























































































































































Woman.


































































































































































Maybe they're trying to make friends with powerful people.

















































Really?






Shannon, you got her a job.






They love and hate each other.
































It was your job.

What about the job you did for us with that German frau?























































































































































































































































































































It's a fine example of working together.

Working together?

Like the first time I kissed you, you didn't do your part of the job.























































































































Tell me it's true.















































Under the influence of love or religion, people are unable to sacrifice each other for the sake of national interests.
















Women?





























Oh, honey.






















Isn't that right, Jim?





But, honey, I'm tired.






























































































You love your job, don't you, Jim?












































































































































































































I don't mind being a babysitter like that.






















































































































































Colonel Shannon, it's a rare privilege to welcome an American officer to the Soviet Union, really, a little late.



























Don't you remember the famous sniper woman?

























It's true.
























































He said he didn't have any experience with them.










































I always think of you as two different women...
Anna, a beautiful child, I thought you were a refugee. And Olga, the wiener-- this one made me a fucking cock.








It was true then and now.

























































































































































































































My dear Olga, how have you changed?


























































































































Nice work, baby.









































Dr. Elliot...

















Susie, I just finished the job.




























Let's do a double check before we present the data to Dr. Elliot.




Isn't that right, Susie?











- Is there a problem, Dr. Calver?



Dr. Elliot, we've been through something, you might be interested.







That's more than a guess, Dr. Elliot.

























I'm so sorry, darling.



































































































































Is that what you mean, Dr. Gaskell?










I don't understand what you mean by that, Dr. Calver?


































Doctor, look at this.


Ask Dr. Williams to prep a patient for shock therapy.
Yes, Doctor.
- Dr. Gaskell?

















Yes, Doctor.
Dr. Elliot, can you hear me?



- It's true!
- Dr. Elliot!


You're insane, Doctor.


Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - Dr. Elliot, I insist!


- What, doctor?





Help me, Doctor.















Have you ever attempted suicide, Dr. Elliot?






- Of course I am, Dr. Elliot.



It's true.
What's happening is true.























- Doctor?









About that, we got a call from Los Santos, Dr. Leslie Gaskell, a well-known and authoritative scientist from Lab Central.

We recorded Dr. Gaskell's report, and this is part of it.







Dr. Gaskell mentioned the giant Kronos, who was identified in Greek mythology as a great evil monster.


Here's the painter's image, after Dr. Gaskell's description.



Message from Lab Central : Dr. Hubbell Elliot, her director, was discharged from Phoenix Hospital today, just hours after the tragic death of his attending doctor, Dr. Albert R. Stern.






















Dr. Elliot,






You haven't seen this monster yet, Dr. Elliot!











You're wrong, doctor, if you think so, you're blind to everything that's going on.

















Dr. Elliot?












Dr. Elliot...
Are you okay, Dr. Elliot?


















































It has something to do with Dr. Elliot.









































Dr. Leslie Gaskell from Lab Central, at this moment, is alone with the officers at the Air Base near Los Angeles, while a cruise jet from Boston University of Technology flies on his orders with rare radioactive elements.
What Dr. Gaskell proposes to do, the world doesn't know.































































It's much easier than work and much easier than making a living.

And if you left work and had nothing to do with Palma Valencia or "Elizabeth's cute legs" could bring magic into your cold, empty room.


Abdullah... five minutes of forgetting after a fruitless job search.































Fraulein Schroeder, come to my office after work!











- See you tonight.





















Tell me... are you really... sick?




What were you doing at Dr. Zaydemann's yesterday?



You must be more reasonable, dear Lizzie...































They're all married women!

















It's okay when you're expecting a baby.


I'll leave the baby.




And the wedding, and the fact that I don't work anymore, and the baby.

































"Dear father, dear mother...
I can't find a job and I guess waiting doesn't make sense anymore.


There's no prospect of finding a job! And my dad only gives endless speeches when he's poaching.


- Yes, my dear Lizzie. But you're a girl, and you also work. He's got nothing to do.

Oh, my dear!









You work your whole life for the kids, you give yourself to them, and here he is, the end!







It's easy to deal with women when they're so careless.
























Did you know we had a baby?









Beautiful thing, isn't it?





The baby showed up too early.
And maintaining newborns is an expensive pleasure. And then you have to pay for the furniture!






Tell me the truth!




Isn't this a fair job? ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪


































First-class people like you always get a chance to get a job.



- But, my dear Fromeyer...























And now there's a baby... and now it's supposed to be Lizzie's first love.









I'm my wife and my baby!

EVERY day to have children? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,



And as of tomorrow, you don't have to go to work anymore.
Do you see, darling Fromeyer? We're making concessions.


They're also giving me the special favor of not having to go to work tomorrow!










We're gonna get you a job!





She's really had some connections from her time at Quick.
















Find a job for my husband. That'll be quite enough.




























Oh, my dear Herr Shurin!












But you know... running around looking for a job is gonna make you crazy.


















































You don't want to hear the truth, do you?






















Yes, yes, my dear!











Well, my dear friend, you should think about whether it's right for you.























Really? And, Mr. Fromeyer?
It's true, Lizzie!

























































It wasn't like that! And the only thing waiting for her was a sad, long night. No! No!
She couldn't stay alone tonight!



- Did he finally get a job?















And your Fromeyer isn't worried about finding a job anymore?

- What kind of work is that?






It's not just me and Freddie. We have to take care of the baby!























- I have to go with the baby! - But, Lizzie!


































- Good evening...
- Good evening!





This isn't the best job you've ever done.








Good evening!




- Not today, my dear!





























































Good evening, Lizzie!
















Kids!

























She's staying with her friends. Papier Strass, house 7.














But, as it turns out, we still have friends.










No, really! I barely heard myself.




























Well, my dear friend! You really don't know anything about politics!








































Friends, your comm friends!















All night.






When our Fuhrer became chancellor, I had a private conversation with the doctor.









































































































Her husband managed to escape. - She had a heart attack. - And their baby?































































Kids love it here, and old people love it, too.







While Monsieur X was at a business conference in London, she came to the 14th room of the Ritz Hotel every night.





































When Mom was alive, you discussed your work with her.
Your mother was a married woman.









Really?




























What woman can ask for more than to die with her lover?
They're buried under that avalanche and they're in each other's arms forever.










- You're enjoying your work.









































































They have dinner every night in his room at Ritz.













It's beautiful, isn't it? Yeah, yeah.





















































Of course, darling.

Of course, darling.




















































What crime? There's a man and a woman in the 14th room of the Ritz Hotel.
Male and female, number 14, Ritz. What's the crime?
You don't understand, this woman is married.
I get it." Ritz, number 14, man and woman, woman married.











Madame, there are 7,000 hotels in Paris, 220,000 rooms. And on a night like tonight, I'd say there's a similar situation in 40,000 rooms.




And we don't want the kids in short pants to be involved in such a mess.












































































In fact, I think she's one of the most beautiful women in the world.















In Paris, 7,000 hotels, 220,000 rooms. And 40,000 of them, especially on this evening... what are you talking about?












You really are 200 feet, aren't you?













If people loved each other more, they would shoot less at each other.
















































There'll be a lot of champagne and a lot of gypsies when you come to dinner with me tomorrow night.





















You don't want me to spend my last night in Paris alone, do you?



























Your friend.
Good night, friend.







You're only wrong with a woman.









Good morning, my dear.


















He's a good guy, isn't he?











Dear Mr. Flannagan.

Dear Mr. Flannagan.


Dear Mr. Flannagan.
I made a very big mistake last night.









































Really?














































- Really?



Trouble is, people get too attached to each other.






































































Well, whatever your name is, I'm sorry we only had one night.





























































You know, I was afraid that tonight was lost.

Well, to tell you the truth, I'm here by mistake.






Maybe tomorrow night?
Oh, I forgot, you can't do it in the evenings.













Did you have a good night?
























- Good night, darling.












It's a Siberian mountain, very expensive.



One friend, very generous.


































You've really had a rough year.





















Ariane, since you're always so interested in my job, let's see if you make a good detective.
























Nice work!






























Really?




















































No, I just don't like foot bracelets on women.































































































Dear Mr. Flannagan.











Sorry, it's just old friends came from Stockholm.







I've got something planned for tonight, but I could cancel.
Really?
















What do you do in the evenings?
Why can't we meet in the evening?
I'm sorry, but all my nights are busy.


You're a nomad, I have to take care of my special friends.
What friends?



Dear Mr. Flannagan.




















































































Really, Dad?



...that 86% of women sleeping on their stomachs are secretly in love.




























































































































Look, you really are.





































Really?







































































Well, actually, I started thinking last night.
















You know, Greek women have the whitest skin in the world.
























We had fun, didn't we?







Really, it's just coal dust in the eyes.






















































































My friend was called.
















































What about my friend Klaus Schmidt?



















































































































































Which, to be honest, is kind of weird, 'cause summer's hot.















And your friends, wife?
Who has friends now?




















Really, I'm gonna have to do it myself.















It's hard to live with him, really, an individualist.



Your friend?








In forced labour.























A lot of work.






































































My job sticks to me.






































It's hot, isn't it?






A lot of work and nothing to eat.












Really?













He was a doctor.

































And I was a beautiful woman...






























































I always set them up when the girls finish their jobs.










































Good evening.
- Good evening, Miss Helga.








Nope. I'm waiting for a very good friend.





Truth is, I meant you.



































- What's true is true.








































Yeah, kids.






























































































I got a detailed report on your work.













Sometimes you get friends where you least expect them.



Your records are impressive, dear friend.














































He kills women at night.































































































































































































































































Work first.









































You deserve a cigarette, really.


























I'm waiting for Kersten tonight with a full report.









































Attention is paid to men over 18 and women between 25 and 55.















































































Thank you, dear Kersten, for this visit.

























Given the work I've done, I've been counting on an explanation from you.























































































































































































- I need to see Dr. Carswell immediately.












- Good evening.
- Good evening.

























































Dr. Holden?





Dr. Holden?






















- One more question, Doctor?




There are several ghosts among my best friends.























- and will continue to work with you.

























I'm a scientist too, Dr. Holden.











Good evening.



- Dr. Holden.

Dr. Holden, it's very good to see you.
Your work on hypnotism is one of my favorites.
Thank you, Dr. Kumar.















The papers say you're in charge of the so-called exposure of my activities. Is that true?






































Obviously not, Dr. Holden.
















































- See you tonight.















- Tonight?







So you're really Dr. Holden?



































































- There's a lot to learn from kids.










































Okay, kids.























- Let me introduce Dr. Holden.



Dr. Holden is here to borrow a book from my library.

My dear, I hope you don't mind the children's holidays.
Julian loves children so much.




- Do you want ice cream, my dear?











You're a Ph.D. in psychology.







Only a few people really understood it by learning many mysterious and terrifying secrets. Exceptional work.



























I don't think children would be very entertained by the presence of a demon from hell that I caused for them.




































And it's there, behind your back, Dr. Holden.










She wanted to see the book you were discussing with Dr. Holden. Yes, my dear?






You offered to lend it to Dr. Holden.



I'm sure you and the doctor are looking forward to coming back to London.
































































Oh, good evening, Holden.



































































Yeah, but not tonight.














I hope you don't read this to children in kindergarten.
Whenever I want. In order for the child to learn something, I'm telling him it's a direct text.





You wouldn't deny a dying man his last wish. Really?




















































































































Miss Harrison... sorry, Harrington and Dr. Holden.
- Good evening.

















- Good evening.
It's a really great evening.

Mr. Mick, this is Dr. Holden.

Maggie, honey?
























Well, good evening to you, friends.
Good evening, Mr. McGregor.


He's our friend.
















































But it's all true!





















It's easier to stop this Karswell demon than the woman who made the decision.



















My dear, you are pale as death.





































Dr. Holden is leaving.


















And Karswell says Dr. Holden is gonna die tomorrow night.








- If what you're saying is true.
- But it's true!
It's true!
Doctor, I don't think Scotland Yard can speak here except for an interested observer until...











There's Dr. Holden outside the door.







And apparently, he's going to die tomorrow night.













When I was a kid, I was out walking with the rest of the kids.

















Good night, Dr. Holden.













Dr. Holden just got out and he's gonna be gone all day.









I think I know how to help Dr. Holden in another way.















Is hypnotized always telling the truth?
The subject of hypnotism leads us to introduce Professor Harrington's latest work of studying the followers of magical cults and practices that worship the devil.

































Right now, in deep trance, under Dr. Holden's command.


































- Hobart, from now on, you'll only hear Dr. Holden's voice.




































Dr. Holden.













Good evening, Dr. Holden.








Your friend's here.









































I know you two are cute and probably want to be alone.















- It's okay, Doctor.



















































It's been a pleasure. Isn't that right, Maria?












- Good evening.
- Good evening.
















































































I'm sorry I ruined your evening.








My acquaintance women...
Women usually like shy.





You said that women like shy,








Tomorrow night, I'll go back to where we met tonight.


I wanted to tell you I'll be there at ten tomorrow night.


Don't you have to go to work today?













There's a doctor who's not feeling well.


One day you'll be kicked out of work!

Now, Doctor, I'm coming to see you!

All right, Doctor. We've got urine tests...








































But I have to go by tonight!



As soon as I get back from work, I'm gonna change.

- I suggest you shave by tonight!





Come on, kids, go to bed!























I made a mistake last night.
I acted like a child.

















I mean, if we met and became friends...









You really don't think so?






And it's gonna be like we've always been friends!













- What do you mean? - Really!
- Are you kidding me? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - Really!

Really!



















I don't dream of anything else.











It was so wet that it looked like it was gonna rain, but... but he never went.



























It's hard work, only done with the most beautiful carpets, valuable.


















































Tonight, for example. Deal?































I asked the lady to ask you... if you'd like to go out sometime tonight.

Yes. I'd really like to invite you and Signorina to the opera sometime tonight.






My life was decided that night.

That we'd love each other for the rest of our lives.





































































































I'm really glad we became friends.


















"Dear..."

- Great." "Dear Signor."

















- Like tomorrow night at the usual place.








- Even if we're just friends, no one said we should only talk about your troubles.







I'll see you tomorrow night, you bring it to me, and I'll deliver it.
- Really?
- A friend can do you a favor.









- So you're really gonna take it?



































- I want to have fun tonight.
- Why, aren't you having fun on other nights?
I don't even know what I was doing on other nights.










- On other nights...

I must have slept on other nights. - Sleep?





Don't be a kid!
















There's Arturo. It's a toy to have fun with your kids. Dance!





Take it home, entertain your children!
If you have no children, have fun with your wife.









































































But tonight I feel... everything's gonna be okay.




It's probably gonna be great... in a different way, what do you think, but what matters is the result, isn't it?



















As a kid, in college, then always next of kin, then there, here, because there was no need for an extra mouth at home.
Military service and work................................




I'd like to have friends, but they're the same all the time.

Now that I'm out of work, I'm not going to these places anymore.



































































































Took advantage of a lonely woman!

































I wouldn't say we both had a good night.
You could never do that. Really?














Maybe you can do it when you're happy, right?






















You're like a child.

















I, it's true, I thought you didn't love him any more, so... I only did... so you could love me.













































But I have a job.










































Isn't that right, Natalia?


























It's a woman!






The woman is drowning!









































You're happy, really happy.













































































Trust me, darling.























































































































































































































My friends would love to meet you. Please, please.






If you want to go to your friends, don't mind me.

If you want, go to your friends.
















No one called tonight.




































































- Really, is it okay?




































































Let's stop and break up with our friends.
This is the best way to stay friends.


















But I can't keep women from looking at me.















You really believe that.












It's like Madonna doesn't know how he makes money, sells cocaine and makes women work.








































Honey, honey! I just thought he was coming on Wednesday.






















Honey, thank you, thank you.












I really don't know.
































































































Get up, my children, get up.





































Cabiria, did you really think something was gonna change?
























































You're among friends.





My friends, don't be afraid.



Now, friends, let's have fun.




















































































You can talk to each other, secret, and no one can hear you.
































You're not kidding me, are you?














































I swear, I've never suffered as much as I did tonight.




















What happened tonight is very important to me.
































What else can we say to each other?

What can we say to each other?





But after work, tomorrow night, for example?
Tomorrow night, okay?
I can't tonight.











It's so weird, it's weird. Like a dream, isn't it?














True, the movie changed everything, but he explained that it was necessary for the script.



































My father and mother died when I was a child.



























All girls have to get married and have a lot of kids.




I don't know if you can find me, I'm always so busy.






That's it. To tell you the truth, I was gonna tell you we're not gonna see each other again.





























You and I are made for each other.


















































It's more expensive to take with you. And then, he sold everything, too, and I have to.











































- They're cute, aren't they?








































There are men who like to torture women.























































































We're going home, really, I don't know how we're gonna get there!














































It's a bitter truth.




























































The gun is a soldier's friend.



















































































































- It really doesn't matter.












































































































































General Miro will personally monitor the offensive and promise that the 700nd regiment will arrive tomorrow evening. I mean, you gotta hold on all day.













































































































































































































































































































































Is it true that you were pointed at as a coward because you pulled out a piece of paper with a cross?


































I declare that it... stained the French banner, stained the honour of every man, woman and child of France.



























































- There's no friends of ours?

And then, now we don't have any friends.






He'll be closer to my wife and child than I am.


Hello, my children.
















To tell you the truth, I'm not a believer.
























































































- Colonel, good evening.




























- Soldiers are like children.


Excuse me, do you really believe what you just said?
























Be brave, my children.











I've never thought about women since the trial.
































- Really? - Yes.
Really?









































Colonel Dax last night.

























































It's true, it's a little limited.















































- Madame Josran, good evening.
- Good evening.
Madame Josran, meet Octave Moore, a friend of my wife's parents.


















I hope, dear monsieur, that you will do us the honor of escorting Monsieur Compardon to another evening.














Isn't that great? - And the woman?













My wife, Rosa, is a woman of poor health.







He was just a kid.


Good evening, Mademoiselle Gasparina.
Good evening, sir.
















Good night, darling. Goodbye, my love.














































My friend, your brother won't give her a penny.










Don't make him nervous, or his dad's gonna be worried at work.






Well, how could you upset the engagement tonight?




















No matter how cheap you are, you have to be able to keep score, 'cause you're not a kid anymore.
















A man who takes a woman by the waist must immediately know what he can expect.




























I got you a good job two feet away from Ladies' Happiness.











I'll be right back, honey, don't close the door.






















Good people don't throw things on the road, and kids do nothing but ruin.







He arrived last night, and he already met six beautiful women.
























Luckily, Madame Edouane is a woman with a head.

















- Poor woman.



























Forgive me, madam, but I arrived last night.







We open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:00 p.m.

Last Sunday's like a normal day's work.

Every morning I come 15 minutes before everyone else, and tonight I leave 15 minutes later.





















































You've been keeping an eye on me all night.


























Really. Is this gonna be fun for you?






















Really?










With a young man I didn't like and stepped on my feet all night.












- Thank you. - Thank you, dear friend.







Bertha, say hello to Dr. Giamar.

















Then, my dear, we are compatriots.
















- It's a lovely evening.

- Good evening, madam.
- Good evening.
- Good evening, Monsieur Vabre.


































Hello, dear Monsieur August.























My friend, may I introduce you, Monsieur Octave Moore.

Yes, dear madam, I said our factory board decided...

























And I managed to sell it in the Lower Alps. Women took a lot of money.





















































What a charm. Isn't that right?






- Can you really do that? - Provided that...























She's a charming girl, isn't she?






Really, men are so vain.































Excuse me, darling.

I'm so happy for you, darling.

























































It's beautiful. Really?



































































Promise one another to be faithful, as is proper for the spouses, according to the commandments of God.

























Here's what's gonna happen to you and your decent wives, my dear.




Is it true you don't get married in your home country?





















Monsieur Moore, what is the truth about Madame Wabre?










But I see you're very interested in women.










































And I'm sitting like an idiot with a beautiful woman and I don't dare kiss her.






Come on in, darling.
Meet my friend Octave Moore. Young man, he has a big future.


















To a worker who would beat her, or to an official who would give her a baby every time...

And she's nice to me, isn't she, gold?



Well, my dear, that's the family.









































We'll build a mall, a women's palace.





Believe me, women are my direction.










- Isn't that right?





















Madame, I'm quitting tonight.













Two dresses last week, two lunches at the restaurant, two evenings at the theater.
















































































And then, darling, it's better to have a beautiful body than a nasty face.




































To go down like that, to go through your pockets. We were warned what kind of woman you are.


































































- You don't have any friends? - Yes, but on Sundays.

The story of a man and a woman.
A virtuous woman.










































- Sweetheart, it's a triumph.



I told you, my dear, he's a genius in business.




























- What's a doctor?














- Dear cousin, we'll walk you out.



























Your husband's leaving tonight.













You want to come get her tonight?



I love you, and I'll do whatever you want tonight, canals.

A single woman running a place like this...






He can't be left alone with women.

The most decent woman can't resist him.





Are you going back to Lyon tonight?



























She's telling the truth.


































You could if it were true.







Honey, if you really think I love you for money, you better leave me at once.




































Three months we thought we loved each other.


If we... didn't love each other, you're gonna drown. So there's no such thing as love.









But since you don't love each other anymore.








































































































































- My children, what's going on?
















































August, my friend, I'll tell you one thing: revenge.





































Fanny's a kid, she didn't know what she was doing.


































When I sheltered you here, didn't I warn you not to bring women here?
I didn't bring any women here. There's a lot of them, and they're all beautiful.

























You're not here too much, my friend.


My darling, I've sorted it out.





























What if you and August apologize to each other?
A friend in front of a friend?





























Thank you very much, my dear, for understanding.













































Monsieur Octave, you must know the truth.




























































































































































































Until the last woman and child in Ávila, until someone talks and tells us where the gun is.
























































Two hundred miles from here, the enemy is amused by putting Spanish children on bayonets.







Tell the kids there's sweat in the resistance stream.










He gets wine from France and women from Morocco.


















































































































Any woman's dream.








There are children in the village.



























- You think a lot for a woman.








































Really.

















































































You think I can't feel what a woman wants?






























We're a little embarrassed, but we all have wives and kids. We're not ready to die for that gun.











































































There's gonna be a service tonight.







































Tell them the truth.


















It's true what I told them.
















































































Really, I'm not sure if Ben is going to accompany the new hunters right now.


























He's really happy about that, isn't he?






















































And if you're so worried about the money, why did you give up three jobs in a month?









There's nothing but work from early morning to late night.

Honey!





























What's wrong with us, darling?





























































































Maybe I should wait till tonight, Ben, and you can drive me?

















I left the night before.


























After all, we... we found each other again.











Would you like to have dinner with me tonight?


































We weren't the luckiest team, were we?














Honey, this time I have something big... bigger than you can imagine.







Listen, darling...






























But why worry about it, darling?








































































I was just trying to stop you, darling.
















































The man you killed has four children!










All she has to do is tell the truth.


























Oh... and you really deserve each other!














You don't think I'm gonna appreciate your wife more than you are, do you?















































If you're interested, your wife behaved perfectly tonight.























There's gonna be a lot of moments on this trip when we can't keep an eye on each other, like when we sleep.













































































































The prints on Harry Castleton's belt belong to a woman named Margaret Fowler.












Yeah, that sounds like the truth.







































































































































































































































































He was my best friend.


























































Listen, darling! We've seen two murders.








































































































More... a little more, okay, darling?







































- It's okay, honey!









































But Satan, our buddy, I bet he's not alone.



There were four suns in the sky just last night.




























- Did you really see her?

































































Will women love me in this dress?















































































































You understand, my dear...



For 10 years, we were bitten by snakes, stung by wasps, maimed by beasts, destroyed by barbarians, poisoned with wine, infected by women, ate mocricians, shaking fever.







- It's true.


- Holy truth.



















Fate is a villain, and you're my friend a loser.




















































































Don't you think your mouth's gonna be suffocated till tonight?
And you, a woman who blossoms with passion and lust for a lifetime.




























And the truth is, the plague is crawling down the west coast.




The baby's woman gave birth with a veal head.











The Day of Judgment will last the evening.





- It's a beautiful thing, but I think it's expensive too.



























































































- Really?










































































































We went hunting. We danced at night.















































- Good evening.




Yeah, it's just the horror with these women and the horror without them.


- Shouting kids and wet diapers.


































































...read each other's monologues until the Devil's ears dry.










- Dear Plog, forgive me for everything.




- Kunigunda, tell me the truth...







- God, why did you give us women?



- My dear Plog... if you think I'm gonna defend myself, you're wrong.








Dear friend, I am lowering this dagger at the call of my heart.





Goodbye, my friend. Pray for me at least once in a while.







































- My family, my children...



























































































































































- It's true, I'm worried.












































My friends are there.

































































































If he showed up here, God, it would be stupid to take him away, wouldn't it?





































































































































To tell you the truth, Tammy, I've made mistakes all the time.






















































He said she was a kid.















The baby from the river?


























Well, you can get a kid on it.






















You mean there's a woman who comes in and cooks?































































































Good morning, darling.










































Really?





















The goat is doing his job.















It's good to stand on solid ground, with rooms and kitchens, raise children and...


Food, shelter, love, children and chickens!




































They don't trust each other like they did before!





































































Men have a lot of nose hair, they don't breathe like women.























































He's Peter's best friend.











































Stop thinking of me as a kid.





















Really?






















































































































Mr. Beesle, I want you to meet our friend.























Makes land and gives birth to children.













































































































































































































You look incredible, my dear!



















Each of them is the work of a genius.






































Mommy and daddy, and I, and the baby, and the older sisters, two or three.































































































It was a great night, thanks to Tammy.

























In a way, it's true.
























It's a nice picture of Tammy, isn't it?

















Barbara, we need to face the truth.
We don't have the same love for each other at all.



She made me realize that when people really love, they're willing to make any sacrifices for each other.








































Get back to work.




And now, back to work.







































- Doctors! They took everything from me-- alcohol, tobacco, women.











































































Don't worry, I'm not taking this case, it's just that Mayhew's an old friend, he needs help.


















Mr. Vole was at her place that night.









I think the defense can be built on a solid alibi for the night of the murder.

































It also said the police wanted to interrogate me, because I was at Mrs. French's that night.
















































I've been out of work for four months. - What do you do?

The last job is a mechanic at a maintenance firm.







It's kind of true, but I'm not really like that. I'm different.























- Do you really like her?




I wouldn't recommend it to all women, but you...

- Do you really think so?

































I just knew she seemed very lonely, and she didn't have any friends.












We need to buy one. Is it expensive?
































Really?








Now tell Sir Wilfried about the night of the murder.
That night, I went to see her about eight o'clock.









- The truth. How much? Why would she give me money?











Is that true?
No, we love each other.



































It was a beautiful evening.







And I love her. We're loyal to each other.











































This is our old friend Inspector Hirne.


















Even for taking a walk with a dog without a leash or drinking a beer after work.














































Dear Mrs. Vole, I'm afraid we have some bad news for you.

















I'm gonna have a serious conversation with Dr. Harrison.


























Leonard knew how to treat women.
The only hope is that the jury will be full of women.




















Then let's make sure you don't contradict each other.











Of course it's true.


Or because of the accent. Dear Mrs. Vole, in our court, we only take the testimony of talkers in Bulgarian, who need an interpreter, and even deaf people who can't speak at all.
As long as they're telling the truth.



Really, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.



























You're an amazing woman, Mrs. Vole.
















I called Dr. Harrison and gave him a full report of your terrible behavior.










Why? So you were dressed the night of the murder.





My wife knows what time I came that night.





















It's true.








































































I wear it to work.

Work didn't work today, did it? Nope.




















































Let's wish each other luck.



Touchy, isn't it?






















You'll hear the defendant meet Mrs. Emily French, a woman of fifty-six.

On the evening of 14 October of this year, between 9.30 p.m. and 10 p.m., Mrs. French was killed.


















Yeah... that's enough, Doctor.






If you weren't a woman, Miss Plimsall, I'd hit you.


Yes, Doctor.


Thank you, Doctor. With pills and cocoa, I'll be safe. Come on, Carter.
Based on the body temperature and other factors, the estimated time of death is set between 9.30 p.m. and 10 p.m. About thirty minutes before Janet McKenzie, the housekeeper, came home and called us.






We don't know if the assailant was a man or a woman.
It could have been a woman.

























































































I swear in the face of God, to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Carter!










I don't know about the associates... the poor, the weak, they were afraid to even touch the work of the servants.




Please tell me in your own words about the events, the evening of October 14th.

























Do you really think there was a robbery?












Both about women married to men are much younger than themselves.


Gentlemen of the jury, is it possible for a woman to read the life story of Diesraeli and not think about marrying a man younger than herself?
























Next, you say that on the evening of October 14th, you heard the defendant and Mrs. French talking.















That's how your brain worked. Next, tell me, did Mrs. French watch TV at night?

Couldn't it have been that the night you walked past the closed door, what you actually heard was a TV -- male and female voices and laughter?
That night, they were showing a play called Flash for a Lover.












That's a lot of money for a working woman.














Dear Miss McKenzie, given the nonsense you're saying these days, you're barely losing anything.




I swear in the face of God to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.





I swear to God that my testimony will be true, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.


















You told the police that on the night of Mrs. French's murder,



















What a terrible woman!








It was the woman he went to so often.













That woman was a harmless old fool, and he made me an accomplice to the murder.



So it's true that Leonard Wol came back at ten ten o'clock, that his jacket had blood on it,

It's true.

It's true.











I didn't tell them the truth.























With that in mind, I'm asking you again, was your testimony true, all true and nothing but the truth?






















I swear in the sight of God that the testimony I give will be true, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.




Leonard Stephen Wol, did you commit the murder of Emily French on the evening of October 14th this year?






Mr. Vole, when you met Mrs. French, did you have a job?













So it would be nice for the defense to know that at the last moment the witness who saw him in those clothes did find him. The defendant was indeed seen in this coat and in this hat, but unfortunately not on the night of the murder, but just a week before.











So you admit you handled the most expensive and gorgeous cruises.















































Good evening, Sir Wilfried.




My dear, I'm in the middle of a trial.




















































































Then it's okay, isn't it?




Two whiskeys for God, they're my friends.
















































































I didn't know that much until last night.







































































It's weird, isn't it?
















It's all packed and ready, Doctor.















































































It was just Leonard, just him. Honey, you should have trusted me. Honestly and irresistibly.


























Isn't that right? He won't be touched now.




















































Amazing woman.








The director of the cinema asks you not to tell your friends how this movie ends, so as not to deprive them of the pleasure they could get from watching.

























































You're out of proportion, Doctor, and you won't get the diamonds.






























I'm Dr. Eggert.
























































Mr. Harrison has a ship for diving and rescue.






The bodies here need to be buried quickly, Dr. Eggert.










































Oh, that stupid woman again!


































Then who broke into the house tonight?




























































































Well, now you have a friend until you die, Jeff.






- Well, it's true.










































Do you believe in walking dead, Dr. Eggert?


































































We'd better get him to the doctor.
The nearest doctor is on Angel's mission.

I'm here as a doctor.




You're not gonna let her give him anything, are you?









































Do you get paid overtime on this job or something?









































































































I need to find her a doctor.



















She's insane, isn't she?


























































































































































That's not true!
















































Yeah, it's true.























































































































































































- It's Friday. - Really?




















- Good evening.






I have a lot of work to do.



















Good evening, gentlemen.



























Good evening.























































































They say women have been gathering for a long time. It's not like that.
















The evening ahead scares me.





I was supposed to spend the evening with Steve.































Thank you for a lovely evening.











- Really?




















If you woke up with a fever, wouldn't you go to work?


- I'll do anything for you, love. - My darling!





























Soon you'll be saying good evening to me.























From now on, we'll only talk about work.




















Pretty good, huh?





- Really?






































We understand each other.





















- Don't, darling.

















Really?


























































































You have no choice, my dear.

















My dear...









































No way! Are you at work yet?















Are you at work yet?





















































You came to work first that day.






That's a good idea, isn't it?

































I have work to do.






He's a real friend.





- We don't need that, darling.


















































- Really?

























I'm only interested in women I don't know.






























- Really?














































































































































































I'm telling the truth.







I'm following your work as usual at the factories. You told me to bet 10,000.



























- I'm tired of this existence. - I understand you, darling.








- Do you really want to go with me? - Oh, yes!















100 million is the sum that is in the register of the Forge-les-O casino on Saturday night.













































































Are you leaving already, my friend?
































My dear...


We're rich, my dear. 18 million!





































We complement each other perfectly.














Honey!































The color, of course, can make a woman more beautiful and make her more attractive.





















































It's the truth that the paint is fading faster.


























































































































































































































I'm leaving tonight.




























































































































































































You're gonna beat up kids like that, and you're gonna have to pick them up with pens.


































































































































































































































































There's one thing I'm afraid is that in a different world, we won't know each other...



















































































































































No, the truth is behind us and the power behind us.
















































































































No more wolves, or they're gonna start cutting each other up in the street.



















































































Really, Melekhova, we didn't get it.


































































































































































































Show me your homework notebook.


















































































But I really don't know.






















































































- Was he really obedient? - Yeah, yeah.





















































You really have nothing to say?





































You really can't think of anything?















































That's not what work is about.


























































Why is it so expensive?
























Children.

1 : 20. The rest of the kids are back from school.


























It's not what we expected, is it?
I mean, this woman-- she looks a lot older and so calm.







But I hate cuffing my dad when the kids are looking at him.










- No, it's not. Her family doesn't want you to quit your job.


Good evening.





















































8 : 20....................................... My husband goes to work at the bank.




































The kids are back.













































I see. And we can't leave yet. Without samples, we can't start work.















The kids came back about 20 minutes ago, they had some sort of fold. There hasn't been anyone since.





Married a widower. A husband 20 years older than her. He also has three children.



Is that a woman...?



It's incredible for this woman to have passionate love.



















I hired him to work on the machine for a while, but he had poor health.




Our work requires years of experience. It was too late for him to start.















I'll call your friend.





















At 7:30 a.m., children leave for school.




































But we don't know any other woman.


But is he going to see this woman?



















Women have more patience in nature. They can support the family with insufficient money.
The troubles make a woman grow old quickly. So find a strong girl who doesn't wear out so fast.
I'm just saying, with a real man, there's no problem with a woman.









- Good evening.


























7: 30, children go to school 8: 20, husband goes to work


















What a hard job.












At first, she seemed to me like a boring woman with no dignity.





























My wife's used to it. You may think so, but for us women...





























































- Satellite, is it a man or a woman?










- Explosion work.










If we hadn't been stuck in explosive work...

This man was driving your bus with a woman until he was 30.





















Wait. Have you met a young man and a woman?







All three children are mine.



















Did you meet a young man and a woman on the road?



Are you really going to Okinawa?
Tell me, please. Are you really going to Okinawa?
Really.






Is that the woman I've been following all week?























































































This woman had only a few hours of passion when her life was set on fire.
Tonight she must return to the cheap husband. She must live with the three children of another woman.
























DOCTOR JOHANN FAUST

So that you don't forget the legacy of the Czech masters of the nineteenth century, and so that you enjoy the view of wooden dolls and paintings, we will play an excellent play about Dr. Johanna Fauste.





















When he wakes up from a bad dream, the doctor orders Mephistophel to draw him a picture.





So Dr. Faust lost his soul in the darkness of hell.




















What are you doing tonight?
We're lucky to be out with them tonight.



















- It's not even tonight.























- I paid for ice cream last night.


































We should have given up on this, but what else could we have done tonight?



















And when we think about the evening coming up, the hearts almost pop out of the chest.




















I was in my last breath, and my friend wasn't doing much better.














We weren't lucky that night.





Everyone has come their way to the sea.




























The boat is my father's most expensive inheritance.




































































- Really?
- Really, I guarantee it.
























Kids, you go to the river and I'll be right back.













I'm not gonna let them take my baby away from me.

I'm sorry, Comrade Pampikane, but you're raising a child wrong.

































The doctor's gonna send you to the village, and then we're gonna run.



This way, Doctor!
Save yourself, Doctor!
Just think, kid, naked, out of the bathtub, ran out to the veranda.
Sit down, Doctor.

- What, doctor?




- What about the treatment, Doctor?






Doctor, I don't know how to thank you.


Thank you, Doctor!







































































- I'm gonna take the kids to the boathouse.

































Okay, listen to your aunt, I'll be there tonight.


































I'm not talking about money. Help me find the baby.



And why would I be looking for your baby?




You have no idea about raising children.
So beating a kid...


That's when the kid ran away, that's right.


I can't think how a kid can get away from his mother.








You know, sir, you won't be in the right place, I'll put the kids on the train and go home.









Why did I take the kids alone?


How did his parents trust him with the kids?



















- Do you have my baby?


- Honey, did you bring the baby?




The only child...




































- That's what the doctor said!
I saw that doctor!



























































There was no other way, the kids had to go home.




































































Your sad friends...
























Oh, my God, where's that kid?

- Isn't that right, Saulius?













And this one hasn't seen the kids...

























































































































- Where are the kids?







We'll hide in the evening and slip into the port in the morning.














































































Master! - Good evening.
































































































































































































































































































Mother's sick. Dear Mother.



Yeah, yeah, gangsters, plutocrats, Bolsheviks, Communists, but mother, dear mother.






Good evening. We know each other.
























































































I've never been lucky with principled women.



































You're a wonderful woman, Lola.















We understand each other, don't we?


















Kids!










Didi, darling, what's wrong with you?


I'm gonna go, darling, move it!












































See you later, friend.










































We have new friends.








































The sponsor of Zawistsky was a good friend... a strong character.














































He's probably sitting alone in the room, by the radio, thinking about where to go tonight. Nonsense!



A friend of mine let me know what Zawistsky was seen in England.













































































































If it's too expensive for you, buy yourself beans.





















































You can't ask an officer to fight women.












































































He was my best friend.







































































































Sorry, I didn't introduce myself. Dr. Caliszewsky.



- Doctor of Philosophy.






I can work tonight.






















































- Good evening.
- Good evening, Madame Juto.








Really?








On De Rosier Street, a woman was just attacked.














How to do a black job, so we are.

































Later. There's a kid sleeping.










































This knife killed a woman.
Your woman was a fish?




What were you doing at your store at 8:00 p.m.?




































He's on his own again. - A woman again?





























































































After all, I killed four women. That's another reason.









































Cami, we're friends, but I can't stand the delay.












You're the kind of woman he likes to kill.
That's why, my children, you can still quit.



The last victim was on his way to work, and the previous two were on their way home.





My children, I'm not joking.
This guy's already killed four women in a sneaky way.



























In that case, my dear, it remains to be wished to see to the end of the matter.

































Is it true he's crazy? Read the papers.
Cuffs, my children, put on after the charge.











It'll take place tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.

And I want all the newspapers to write about it tonight.

















































































































































Woman. She seemed weird to me.


Tonight, no matter what happens, he comes home.








































A woman may have an affair, and this is nothing to do with the criminal investigation department.


I told you, I'm not talking about Star Street, I'm talking about De Rosier Street. Tonight you were on the street de Rosier.




































































































Beautiful woman. Well, Monsieur Moran, all I have to do is thank you for your warm welcome.














It's always cheaper for an expensive tailor to sew.

Not to be indiscreet, but last night, which one were you wearing?


























































































- Really?




















Such women always find themselves a consumer.





I'm a lonely woman, and I'm bored eating alone.



Of course, the kids have to get married.


























No, can you imagine Marcel being a butcher selling meat and talking to the women of our neighborhood?



















He's a kid.








































- Did you get in the way of your job? - That's right, girlfriend.
What do you mean, my job?






9:00 p.m. Dinner at Cookurach's.














In the evenings, they drink extra whiskey and drown for an hour in their dreams.



























All women are strange creatures. Sometimes I...







































It is, of course, partly based on the truth. It's not easy to say.





It could be easy if I were a woman, how do I put it?





He was always better, smarter than me. And the women saw it.










I went to see my friends, I got drunk, followed by this, this George... for an hour.






























Your friend, Inspector La Grum, called. Yes.








This is the first time I've ever seen a pig job like this.






























Yvonne, darling.










































I haven't seen the lady you've been talking about since that evening.

























































It's almost 9:00 p.m.

































































I'm talking about your second meeting, I hope you told him the truth that you left just like you came.

Right, because... that was the first of May, that's when it all started, isn't it?














I called him from a cafe where, so to speak, I spent the evening with my friends. Anyway, just the day before yesterday, you explained everything to him.




Don't you think it's time to tell me the truth?



















And I'm asking what happened after that night.
Come on, tell me the truth.


I'm gonna find out the truth anyway.


































































































































Calm down, dear madam.









But we're men, and we have to face the truth.








Razor blade, writing paper, office glue, artistic work.



















































Madame Liavin is a charming woman.












On the night of the trial, you came out in a dark suit.






That night, after a failed attack on the street, you ran like crazy because you were being chased.







































What I call suffering drove you crazy the night you found out Yvonne slept with that guy.













You were torn between a house on Turen Street and a house on Barillo's waterfront, between two women.
































Do you understand me, my dear?






















When you saw each other, what did you do?








Do you really believe what you're saying, Mr. Megre?




And you knew. You knew the night you came to see me.


























And that's your job.






No doubt he got married to change the scenery, but all he could do was change one woman for another.



















Kids always know who loves them.









A woman will pay for it.
She made the biggest sacrifice tonight.









He's my kid.

































My work allows me to read about any strange incidents and observe even more strange events.








That's when I realized the depth of his despair. He was so desperate that he couldn't think of anything else.



































































I'm telling you, only the union will protect us and keep us safe!
















































I'm waiting, darling.


































He's the one who makes you so excited. Think what you're saying, the kid's listening.






















































Try it on, Hanuma... - It's really beautiful.































The children will grow up, their families will take care of them, and then their children...





















































The woman inside him was dismembered, with no head and no hands.































As a child, he can be persuaded by a kind word, and an evil word will piss him off, even push him to commit a crime.
















Why did you come back to work?























- I won't let him go back to work. - What are you, God Almighty?



Since then, like the truth on my side. I'm trying to help my colleagues.









































Women Against Forced Marriage.




































































































That's where we're gonna raise our kids.

















































































I'm your friend, Mudbuli.




























































She's married. Three kids.





Does the doctor still live there?












































- Do they have a baby?











































- I'm comfortable at noon and 7:00 p.m.






































































































Really?

























When are you expecting a baby?




























- Really?
































Said you were always his only friend.











































Really?







Then... because I love the truth.















This job is dirty.























































For All Saints' Day, only six old women!





























































































Hello, Doctor.








































It's because of Glomo's filthy kid.






It's all gone to hell because of the baby!
The baby of this gal Glomo!
These children... will be born. And they're gonna die!











































































































































He's a friend of my family.

























































He was taken to the doctor.






What did the doctor say?






























































































- Hello, Yvonne. - Good evening.



























































































I'm wrong to lock myself in here after that night.
































Sorry, Serge. - That night at the dance.
















Better because of the baby.






And the doctor?
Everyone's sure this baby's gonna be just like that one.

















Yeah, really.














- And the doctor?
- She didn't say anything about the doctor.








I'm gonna go get the doctor, and you stay with her.



- Is the doctor home?


Where's the doctor?











- The doctor's not home.









Doctor, Yvonne's having a baby.










- Doctor, listen to him.




Go to Yvonne, Doctor.


























Your baby's about to be born.




















- Good evening.

















Good job.

































































































This is my friend.


































What did you want with that woman?






































A single woman shouldn't do that at night!


















If you don't tell us the truth, we'll let you think about it somewhere calmly.


















































Really?
These are my friends, Tominaga and Sakata.









































































They say that lying, which is true, hurts more than the truth, which is actually a lie.




































































Do they really think you can't do your job?


































Some kids are playing the barge with him.






























Some kids found it.



It's a woman...









Please tell me the truth.














Really?














































They don't know each other... and waiter Simazaki is their broker in some sort of negotiation.





I drink to my friends.

























































































































































































































































































































Honey, is that you?




































I'm Paul Hoplin, your husband's friend.













One day he came to see me at work.

















































It's probably that woman.











Look around the seat that this woman occupied.























It's paralyzing all the work.












It's bad enough you're pricing people's lives! It's bad enough you're trying to threaten to extort money! But why bring an innocent child here?
































Run home, darling, find out what mom wanted.


Don't worry, darling, it's okay.


Pat, honey, we're going for a ride.















We've got one of the flight attendants and all the passengers who saw this woman.


















































































- It's okay, honey, Mommy's here.



































No one's going to get your money if we're dead. How could you think we were gonna let you take the baby away from us? That we're gonna leave her alone with that sadist?
Did you really think so?










































































The Federal Reserve Bank is the only place that can handle this kind of work.




I'm trying to figure out if this job can be done by tomorrow.























Well, one day in Georgia, I... I met a woman, and she started hitting on me.









When a woman starts playing with a guy, he can get excited, that's all.






































Yeah, honey, it's Mom.

































































This woman wants to see Mr. Adams. Says her name is Mrs. Joan Molner.








Last night, they took my husband and my little daughter away.

















If she's telling the truth, their lives depend on us.


Let's just say it could be true.






What if it's true?






































There's another woman named Kelly.












He was in prison for assaulting a woman.


































































































Sticking a stick in a kid's belly doesn't bother you at all?
















Soon, darling.

















She was chewed by a woman, there are traces of lipstick.









































































Are you sure these are the exact teeth of that woman? Yeah, sure.















Women talk too much.







































There's a story in the papers about a guy in a blue car. He raped women in him.
























































Being alone with this animal can scare any woman.








It's no use to Steve now, is it?































Okay, what's her address, Doctor?


Thank you very much, Doctor.







































- Two, a man and a woman. Come on.













Kidnapped child and father released. Mother is still captured by a terrorist. It's bad, it's bad.



























I'll tell you why you should do that. A jury can offer you condescension if your cooperation helps save a woman.



















































Honey, honey.

Jim, honey, is everything okay?
















Very soon, darling.










It's okay, honey, it's okay.


















The woman ran into the subway, she's being chased by a man with a gun!


There's a woman in the tunnel.





































- Why are you so exhausting yourself, Doctor?













See you tonight.
















"Dr. Thomas Bolton Hospital.

- Thank you, Doctor.









It doesn't hurt too much, does it?


























- It's a good thing you haven't left the doctor yet.





But I'm telling you, Doctor, he's very bad.

Doctor, please come with me.




















- Yes, you're right, Doctor.





What is it, Doctor?
You don't recognize your own job?








We have a lot of work to do.






- That's not good, Doctor.

- My wife is very upset, Doctor.
















- Doctor, we'll bury him properly.







- Don't worry about it, Doctor.

- Would you like me to escort you, Doctor?



- Yeah, yeah, doctor. Sure.















It's so natural, isn't it? The doctor wrote "natural death."































How can you appreciate this work? And does she heal?









































Good night, my dear.



























































































- Of course it is, my dear.





































































































- You've cured him well, Doctor.













- Well, well, Doctor!





- Come on, doctor. Calm down.











- Well, Doctor?



- Good to see you again, Doctor.
















































































We have work to do.







Now let's get to work, Mr. Williams.


































































And he likes it when women think he's strong.










And he likes it when women think he's strong.








(Laughter) - Looking for this, Doctor?










The doctor wants this book back. [Laughter]
Okay, Doctor.
















- I told you, Doctor.





- You're getting too picky, Doctor.
- A favor, Doctor.



- Come on, Doctor.




- Don't think about it, Doctor.

- There won't be a notebook, Doctor.








- Yes, my dear.





- Anyway, you won't be able to work tonight.






- You're not gonna stop me, are you?

























Doctor, all of a sudden, things are starting to get worse.





- This kid's been in a lot of pain for days.








- If he doesn't hurry, the baby's gonna bleed out.






- It's gonna take a while, and the baby's gonna be okay.














- Oh, my dear Mrs Matthewson, how good to see you!





- I went to the glass factory to order a new inhalers, it'll be much better than the previous one. Jonathan, my dear friend, pour your brandy to Dr. Matthewson.















You're doctors, you always fill the conversation with a masculine of incomprehensible terms between which, we, ordinary people, sometimes you don't see the difference.
It's such a lovely evening.

- Well, good night, dear Susan, thank you for a beautiful evening.




- Good night, my dear.



- I will, my dear.







































































- He's been suspended from work at the clinic.





























- Why don't you face the truth?







- You want to make a deal, Doctor?





- Stop it, Doctor.














- You're at Black Ben's, Doctor.
- Good morning, Doctor. It's about time for a bite to eat.
- Come on, Doctor.


- Come on, Doctor.





The doctor doesn't remember.

- Come on, doctor, eat.






- If I were you, Doctor, I'd be quieter than the grass.


The police are searching everything, they're looking for a doctor, they're asking about him.
- Like I said, Doctor, you'd better hide in here.










- He shouldn't have left last night.


































- How's the doctor?





























- Good job, Thompson.


































































Dear Susan... forgive me for what I did.



That pain and the knife can be separated from each other.





So, in the villages of Brabant along Maas, still with a lot of respect and a little fantasies, people talk about the times when Dr. Van Taeke lived and worked in our district.
But no one's gonna tell you better than Cisa den Dove, the deaf old man who sits at night in De Snook's inn at the fireplace.
For hours, he can talk about the doctor, about this strange man...
Yeah, he was weird, our doctor.












Come to me tonight. Cheers to your return.



Yeah, a lot of people thought the doctor was a weirdo.



Yeah, Dr. Van Taeke was a weirdo, but life in our village was unusual.
Mr. Doctor.





Mr. Doctor.




But, Doctor...
Mr. Doctor, I've been waiting until the last one, but now it's time.

Yes, Doctor.










Why didn't you put on your jacket when you went to call the doctor?


Mr. Dr., coffee.............................................................

Mr. Doctor.















But you, doctor, know what you're doing.










Hello, Doctor.





Thank you for not forgetting, Doctor.





























































It's worse than me, isn't it?






































Lent, friend, for your health.











- The truth is, you're the bravest man in the village.



































Children. It's Pale P.












These death certificates, Mr. Doctor, look, to say the least, a little weird.










I hope, Doctor, you agree with the view that Lent's wife's behavior is a widow's fault.



















And one day, by the evening, a dark gypsy appeared on the coast of Maas.
The evening has come...























The doctor told me to lock it up.
















Don't count on me, Doctor.

Now do you see, Doctor?


Are you a doctor?
They say you're not afraid of anything. Is that true?












No, Doctor, it's best not to go there.



What are you going to do, Doctor?











Men, women, even children.



































Van Alem's child is alive.





Dirk van Alem's seventh child.













The kids didn't want to go to bed.




















When I think about you and the kids, about little Tierke, about our lives here, I get really scared.
We don't talk much.
You work hard, I take care of the kids.














Mr. Doctor.































Dear Doctor. I've been coming to see you for a long time about the irreparable loss you've suffered, to express my sincere condolences on the passing away of the deeply esteemed Miss Van Taeke.



And I am particularly sorry, my dear van Taeke, that, with some authority among the villagers, we do not... use our position to cooperate more closely with each other.

















































After our wife died, we had a hard time with our doctor.

He sat alone in the living room until the late end of the night.













Good morning, Doctor.








In view of the fact that Dr. van Taeke's anniversary we have unanimously decided to celebrate, a gift for a jubilar should also be appropriate.
So I suggest we set aside a thousand guilders in a sealed envelope for the doctor from our cash register.

- I'm grateful to our doctor for everything, but the burgomaster, didn't you talk about saving yourself?


How can you be niggardly for a doctor who's done so much for us and comes to help in any weather?



Dr. van Taeke is an experienced doctor and a good midwife.


I have received complaints from families that the doctor's fees are unacceptably high.

































Because we can reasonably claim that you, dear jubilar, are an example for practitioners from all over our country.



And if there comes a time of well-deserved rest, which, perhaps, is no longer far away after 25 years of faithful service, which undoubtedly took away the physical and mental strength of our dear jubilar, I hope that this rest will be an indignant dolce far niente for many years of your life.




Long live our doctor!






















Dr. Van Taeke quit himself.




It's gonna be another life, Doctor.












Thank you, Doctor, for the beautiful gun.




And we never saw him again, our doctor.




"My friend!







"My friend! The lake is beautiful."



























In other words, we were friends in life.








- Yes, Dr. Bugge.








He's an old friend of mine.

Do you have any friends at the police station?
































Please don't psychoanalyze me, Doctor.













- At 7:00 P.M.?



Aren't you forgetting our date tonight?

I can't tonight.














































If he doesn't come back by tonight, we'll go look for him tomorrow.




- It's really great here.




It's really cozy.















































































































































- What, honey?























- You have good taste for women.







































































































































































Can you tell the hallucinations from the truth?




















































































































































Your old friend?




















We think we know the truth, but we don't really know anything.
Smart, we're like kids, like savages.
We're only good at making technical toys, right for the kids.




































Our mystical friend.




























































































You really think something's gonna happen?






































Even more when they love each other.


























































































- Get in the fireplace, darling.





























Is that true?














































































































You're not married, and you don't have children.































































Your father and I were old friends, so don't be shy.

































































































































































A strange woman came.













Tell me the truth.
















A local priest gave me a job and even gave me a room.




But I have to eat, so be patient, darling.

























But I don't need friends.


























































































































Have you ever had friends?












































Ah, your friend.

Friends don't do that.


Misoguchi, I'll introduce you to each other.




























In the evening, he told his best student, Jesus, about this case and asked him for his opinion.
































































































Tonight?
















































































































Is this really your first time?


















Your father and I have been friends since we were young.












































































































































































































































































Really?

I've never met a woman in the Air Force.




































Really, what is it?











Do you drink women in half and all that?
No, I love women.














Don't worry, my dear.


































































































































And now what will the Major's wife think, his children, when they find out about him and Lola?
Does he have a wife and kids?























- Plus, your friend's squeezing loudly.




























































































He's watching my woman.































Please tell him I want to be his friend and I'll come see you before I go to the United States.







Don't tell him. I only took it for money because I couldn't find a job in the States.















































































































You admitted that you only came here because you couldn't find a job at home!















































I know what happened last night.



I can't blame your friend for his jealousy.











Last night Mitsuo went to the temple and prayed for you.






























We don't understand each other, and the subtitles are mixed up.



Mitsuo told his friends about you.







Where are Mitzi's friends?







































Do I come to your job to make fun of you?



































































A lot of my friends say that a hat on my head is still empty.












Please take care of my friend and partner Harry.



























































All women look like Bridgette Bardo.























































That's right, my friends, Ichiam is trapped in silence.








































Goodbye, little friend.

































Tempting each other with love and lazyness and...













































































































































- Your truth.





















And now for the best trick of the evening,


































But here in Paris, those who are not ordinary men, and those who are not ordinary women.



































































I went to the theater one night, but I never saw her.






















Of course, the more, the more.













































Maybe she's the kind of woman that suits you.










































































How are you feeling today, dear Mamita?






























If you listen to the stories Honoré tells me, what she says is true.


She sees Gigi's past, and it's true, and she's teaching her.







Especially you, dear Gaston.

































































Without knowledge of jewelry, my dear Gigi, the woman is missing.
































Who gave you these expensive jewelry?

























Love, my dear Gigi, it's a beautiful thing, like a work of art.





Go back to your job.














































































































Hello, darling.





Honey.














She's the sister of a heavenly creature I gave a party for last night.
















Dear Liana is well settled.
She's attractive tonight, isn't she?

She's having so much fun tonight.

She's having fun and having fun tonight.



Tonight in her eyes.








She's having so much fun tonight.
She's charming tonight.










Oh, she's having fun tonight,
Oh, it's so fun tonight,
A giant romantic cliché tonight.






































Remember the dear little Madame Dumel and Marmaluc, the terrible Turk?
















This woman was normal.








But you're not gonna leave a woman with the last word.















It's true.
It's true.



























































































- Good evening, Manuel.
Good evening, Honore.
































How about tonight?















Next weeks, you have to come out every night.





Every night, there's another girl.











































What are you eating for dinner tonight?








































































































With this annoyingly annoying kid than anyone in Paris. This is gonna be great fun.





Stop, you stupid kid.

















That since the creation of the world no woman and no man
Never been as happy as we were tonight.







No woman and no man
Never been as happy as we were tonight.


Who's the kid with him?












When a pretty woman comes along, I always have to keep an eye on you.





























Yeah, it's true.










Especially the last night we spent together.







We had dinner with our friends.














Tonight, when we had our last date.






































My dear sister, has it ever occurred to you that Gigi?







So nice that when Gaston came back, he canceled all the meetings and left Paris the same night in Monte Carlo.















From now on, dear sister: work, work, work, lessons, lessons, lessons.




























































Really, Gaston, you're spoiling her too much.





Don't I look like a real lady?
























You must understand that no one should turn inside out... even for an old friend like Gaston.





































For a woman to go alone with you, especially now that all the eyes of Paris are pointed at you...


















Who's gonna marry her and give her four kids in three years?














She's a kid,
Just a kid,










She's a child, you'll never be able to free her.

Really, that weekend in Truville.







She's a kid,
Stupid kid,


She's a kid,
Clumsy kid,


It's just a kid,
A growing child,


She's an annoying kid, and I don't know where she is.











Who got older, it's true, like all of them do,


















































He said he'd spoil her like no woman before.





















But he wants to have dinner with her tonight.











He has to send a gift before tonight.



































I know about the woman who robbed you,

























Except seeing each other a little more often?
You're a friend of our family.

































Children are born ungrateful and with cold hearts!


























































Why don't you check your schedule and come with me to Maxime tonight?



I saw her last night.






















Fear that your friends won't like her,























































My dear Monsieur Lashall.









Pray for me tonight,







Pray for me tonight,

Stay on your knees tonight.





























What a lovely evening.


- Good evening, Honore.
- Good evening, Monsieur Laschalle. Good evening.



























My dear, dear, dear boy!








Experienced women can get bored quickly.


But with a woman like Gigi...























































































































































It's still night.


















































































Since last night, we've been comrades!



















Take care of the cooking, and then you'll have a job.











Looks down like we're doing all the work.



















It really was Princess Yuki's crest.

















































































































































Are you telling me you found this on Mount Suribati?



























When the war is lost, women are sold on every corner.









What's the point of buying a woman who opposes visitors?





































































































Two women are 20 more women. I can carry 40 canas, too.




















































We're in different camps, but we're real friends.
Friends?

















































Let's stay friends.
We risked our lives together, we'll stay friends in the village.















Let's stay friends in the sky.




































































But it's true.























































































































































































































No, it wasn't a job.










































































































































All the kids are crying.










- But it's true?










My dad's been late for work, and he hasn't been home in days.



A very brave child.









Urban children are very smart.



This kid's watching us.




































































Amazing, isn't it?
















































Most kids were very nervous.










There's some work outside the house.












But you're a smart woman, and you have to accept this offer.


















































































I think women should be more discreet.


















It doesn't matter to me when we're alone, but my friends are teasing me.

















His friends are teasing him.



































I have two children.










































He's coming tomorrow night.

With your friend?



































Good evening, Matsu, come in.

















But children don't understand their parent's concerns.





































- Work.


















You can only make one mistake in this job.



- Why are you out of work? Nope.
I have a full-time job.




































































Dr. Walders, you're expected in the office.
Dr. Walders, in the office.






Are you paid to work or not?






















It's not your job.







- He's taking five grand to work.




Mark, would you take a job like this?




















Now that we've said hello to each other, let's see how fast we can say goodbye.





















































You read in the papers about the wives who killed their husbands, the killer of children, the stabbing in a drunken fight...











































I want to do my job well.
When you do a good job, the money comes.

























That's why you're doing such a lousy job, bringing me a cup of lipstick to sweeten the coffee.
















Where would you be if guys like me? Sitting out of work?



Whose job is this, someone else?




































































It's our job to keep an eye on him, he shouldn't be out of sight.



















































There's a woman right ahead.



- The target is a woman.









Why didn't they tell me it was a woman?










He just doesn't like killing women.


If I'd known it was a woman, I'd have asked for twice as much.
I don't like women.





































I didn't get the job.






































































































They're the ones who hired the lunatic to do the job!
















But it's, it's just a job. I could do it myself.



























































If this job doesn't end with a satisfactory result, I don't have a future.

So if this job had been assigned to me...



I'd take the gun, put the way into this house, and finish the job once and for all.

































































It's 5:00 p.m.










Maybe two if they're close together.






Well, maybe a dozen if they're close to each other.







































































- How do I know you're telling me the truth?






























You'd think they'd never seen a woman before.

I need a woman.








Now, I need a woman here!

Woman!











She says she needs a woman in her room.




















A human woman came from a monkey, and the monkeys are the most curious animals in the world.

- Same with a woman.





























- Do you like food, cigars, fat women?
- How do you know I prefer fat women?









































See, Superman, the bullet does the job.





















































Don't tell me your life, darling.



Women are all like that.




































































































































- I won't forget, darling.
















If you don't do this job, you're cursed.



































If you don't change your mind and finish the job.



Let him finish the job.


















I'm your friend, George!















- Why didn't you tell me it was a woman?

Well, a woman will cost you more money.































































































Come in, my dear.




























Thank you. Now let's get to work.


















Of course, one day the baby became different.

















































- I really like you, really.




















- Good afternoon, children.






































Very graceful, my dear.













- That's what the doctor told her.
You don't have to get him off the bread of the kids.










































































































What we really need, my dear Rocket, is discipline, order and training.













































Darling, sweet Via.







- Kids, is everything okay?





























































Girls come into this world to become women who can make men happy.

A humble woman is a good wife.
In England, we were raised with justice and friendship in all children equally.



Children are obedient and well prepared for classes







Just like any kid her age, Meinhardis wants approval and support, a good word, a helping hand.







I don't believe that children should be treated in the same way as grown-ups.














"The bandits" is one of his most significant works.







You're a special kid.







Trusting each other is beautiful.









You're all my children. But I can't belong to you or anyone else.


























No, no, my dear!








































































Kids, there's nothing better than Sunday spent in a comfortable home environment.



































- Come on, kids!



Don't be ashamed of your work, it's glamorous.






























































































Dear parents, what a terrible Sunday












But no grief of that joy can outweigh what one minute only gives me when I see mine dearly.







What does one minute give me when I see mine?














Only in accordance with our principles: children, church, kitchen!

- Kids, church, kitchen!




































It's for the kids.














Kids, I don't want to get in the way.





































Kids, kids!




















































































































































I am here today to congratulate my dear Miss Superior.


- I'm sure the kids got a great experience.








Happy kids. Seeing is such a pleasure.






I had a great time here with you kids!










































Kids, say whatever you want, but it's great to have Her Highness the Princess.











- You're too kind to the kids.














































I'm not your friend or your mother.
That's the truth.



Goodbye, dear Fraulein von Bernburg.






















Kids don't have to pay for what happened to us.
Your power is based on fear, and the children hate you.

































Kids, quiet!








































Wilson, you should go see a shrink or give up a woman.






























Something's been wrong with you lately, darling.








Go and light it there, darling.
You guys are wonderful. You're really wonderful, but my compass is pointing that way.
"He reinforces my soul, directs me into the paths of righteousness for his name.






No way. Don't be so naive, man.






















































































































































Your friend wasn't as dead as you thought, was he?






























































































































































































































Of course, darling, but...





Of course it will, darling.




Sam, honey, why didn't you write anything?







































You might be wet, darling... but it's not cold!
































We're expected to be attacked and invited, my friend.




I really do, and I really want a sip of this drink.





























































































The doctor says I'm gonna be discharged today.







































































She's having a baby every day.













There's a point in the child being saved.






They're my friends.





And where I had the opening of the season tonight and the morning... closing in prison.































Hey, kids can't drink.










































































































You know, I'm not mad at Hirn because he's got the easiest job in the division, but I don't understand what the general found in him.





















































I guess so, but then I thought about all those women waiting for poor Hirn, and...
A good woman can help a man.




The right woman will help you find her.


You don't have kids?




My wife is a beautiful woman.











I'm tired of this job reminiscent of our partnership.



For a while, you'll forget everything but your job.
And you'll do your job well.











































You've added work to me.
Your work isn't that hard, Clellan.







All I'm interested in is finishing this job and getting back to my old duties.


















I've already asked for support, but to be honest, Navy friends told me to get her chances a little bit.

















































































































Soldiers, we don't know each other, maybe you don't want to know me, but I've been appointed your new platoon commander, and there's nothing we can do about it.


















































































































































































































































































What are you doing? It's like killing a kid--


































































































































































































Really, Red.























































































I have a kid I haven't seen yet.






























Really?
















































































It's really yours!


















































































































As a neighbor and an old friend, I'll tell you what people say.









































































































































































































































Dear Father, the day of your Rise is approaching.



































































I'll leave tomorrow night without your instructions.

































Really, it's snowing!




The snow really started... on the day of your Rise!



L'opera - muffe "Diary of a Pregnant Woman"















Dear Dead





















































I came back from Germany a week ago, from work.

























I'd be a bad communist, comrades, if I could comfort you like naive children.
















































































Good evening.




































- Good evening. - Good evening.




















































































































































He was assigned to the voivodial division of the PDP, and you, Mr. Handyman, can you imagine what full power the First Secretary has?









I see, my dears, that this is a very pleasant place to rest.









Our friends will always be our friends.






















At the end of '41, my friends told me that Maria was dead and you took Marek.


Recommended acquaintances, my friends...



























- With a woman?


















And the woman is coming with whom you agreed.





























Good evening, Mrs. Christina.
Good evening. Clean with vermouth, as usual?


Ahh. Actor's work.




Let's start our artistic evening.




































































































Well, then you could say you could be free around 2:30, right?































































To the health of the minister, you should drink in the service! So, is that true?




















Unfortunately... "Mr. Minister", dear Mr. Solomka.



















































It's true.



















- Good evening. - Good evening, come in.








































































We've known each other for about two hours, and somehow I think we've known each other for a long time.


































































































































Can't you see a woman's bad luck?


























































Are you telling me this as a soldier or as a friend?




- But we're friends!

















No, my darling,




















































































It's fun, isn't it?



































































































Candy, my dear, why did you come up here?





Calm down, darling!















































































Anyway, I'll come by tonight.












"Dear Madge, I miss you so much, but it won't be long.
The work on the book is progressing well.
I hope to finish it by tonight, but anyway... I can't be away from you anymore, so I plan to leave early in the morning.

I miss you, I look forward to meeting you, my dear.













Of course, darling, but not now.



















We need to know the truth, Toto.






















Thank you, dear Gina.





































I'll tell you, darling.




The police will know the truth.







In the morning, darling.













In France, darling.



We have to support each other.






















She's a weird girl, isn't she?














Here's your mom, the lucky woman, killing herself.


















































































It's gonna be great, isn't it?






































































































But Mom's going to heaven anyway, isn't she, Gina?



I'm gonna send a letter, and then we're gonna figure out what to do tonight.

















Sure, she's a girl... but she's just a kid.

























You believe me, don't you?


























All the kids love it.















Candy, it's okay, honey.


















































It's a different kid.
Yeah, she's another kid.








She's just a kid.























































She's a kid, Gina.














As soon as we get to America, I'll show it to the doctor.












You can't understand that I'm telling you the truth because he's put a lot of bullshit in your ears like everyone else.









She needs to be shown to the doctor as much as possible...












































And you'll let me know as soon as the doctor sees her?
























































"My dear Paul and Candy, forgive me for what I did.
I went to see a doctor today.







I know you'll take care of each other, and that's why I'm calm.




Honey, drink this.















I'll show it to the doctor when we get to America.



























Isn't it better to tell the truth?

















































You know, Candy, this promise could change your future, right, Miss Edwards?
You don't need any doctors.





























































- Norma, darling, how are you?

































































































Send that friend Cosimo with Sicily!








Friends...








































The baby's asleep.


When you have kids, you'll understand!
















You woke the baby up.
























Where am I gonna put the baby?







No, the kid only goes to jail when he grows up.


































































































































































































































All the women in Sicily are called Carmela.







































































































































Work is distributed according to qualifications.











































































There's a woman coming in right now, bringing in a watch. He'll take the watch and put it in the safe.















































































I work... from time to time, but I have a job.












I have friends, and if it's okay, I'll take the three of you out of here too.
All the safes are different.





















































The matter is not clear with time. We need to study the movements in the building, the pawn shop hours, everything in science.














































































































Unfortunately, in my line of work, all the time on the road, the recrimination is very bad.



































But Pepe and his friends didn't take it from time to time that there's an amnesty in Italy... kid, come here... let me get in...


































But we're all friends here.























Meanwhile, Cosimo was thinking about getting revenge on Pepe and his friends.



















To get to know each other better.






























































































It's true...

















Thursday night, they'll leave for Genzano and come back in the morning.

























Such a professional! That's what kids do!








What are you doing here with the baby?
















Look, Theresa's baby?



Theresa's baby!






















































































There's plenty of work.






























I'm going to Spoleto to see my dear aunt.






























21 means 9:00 p.m.





















I'll take it back tonight.
































One has a sister, the other has a mother, the third has a child.










































I'm sorry, my dears, but this time you're gonna have to stay home.











































































That's how you always are, women!













































































































I've always told you the truth.

































I've always told you the truth!










I've always told you the truth!































































































And you're my friends!








































































It's a good job, isn't it?
Good job, well done.









I can, but I'm tired of this job.























A sharp woman will be a good mistress, and a fresh woman will be a good wife. Here, put it in here.










Bye, I'm going to jail to pick up the baby.
















Stop calling her maid, she quit this job, it's too hard for her.









Don't fool around, you know, we're waiting for work.
Jobs?
























































































- Try to identify the woman.








Lady, look at the baby.










Something about my husband's work. Or a nightclub?






























































































































I forgot my old friends.







































































Is there something wrong with my job?

It's a dirty job, just like the law.





We've got a lot of dirty work to do.




















































































































































I'm from this family, but I didn't raise my hand on a woman.




































This friend of yours, Mr. Grandie, how long did he leave you here?
He's not my friend.






















- Who gave you a job?































































Come on, darling.





































































- The job isn't for me.









































Honey, bad news.






I'm here, my dear Miguel.






























Let's say it's not a man chasing a woman, it's the opposite.











































































































































- We've got work to do.




































































And help each other.




























































To work on the ranch. It's just a coincidence.

















































































- Our job isn't sugar.

Easy work only in a police state.











































































































































They think I'll fix it myself? It's not my job.










































































































































































































The doctor let her go.





- Got it. For the truth to be on the tape.


It's my job.

It's my job. And mine, Menciz.




Hank is my best friend.







































































































What else can I think about besides work?
My dirty work.































































































































































Is that how you should quit your job?





























































Work.
















































Truth be told, he seems boring.
































But maybe you'd like to do me a favor and get back to being a detective.










































And tonight, when I came home, I asked her what she'd been doing all day.













Scotty, I need a friend. Someone I can trust.



Listen. We're going to the opera tonight.




What kind of woman is on the portrait she's looking at?























That's a nice name, isn't it?




















































































There was a kid.
Yeah, that's right, baby.
The baby.


He didn't have any other children.
His wife didn't have any children.
So he kept the baby and she was abandoned.







"Where's my baby?
Have you seen my baby?"



































































The child who was taken from her, whose loss drove her crazy and led to her death, was Grandma Madeline.









































































































Friends call you John or Jack?

Old friends call me John.























































I was worried about you last night.
















































































































































If I'm crazy, that explains it, doesn't it?











































Thank you, darling.
































































Think carefully, darling.





























































We love each other.


























Of course, Mr. Ferguson should be thanked for once saving this woman's life when she threw herself into the bay during the previous gloom.




























































Doctor, Miss Wood.


Doctor, how long does it take to get him out of this state?







He blames himself for what happened to that woman.





And you know what, doctor?











Tell me, is it true that she...

- Good evening.
- Good evening.





















Really.







I remind you of a woman you've been in love with without memory, but she left you for another guy, and you've been obsessing about her ever since.






































Do I really look like her?





















And to tell you the truth, it's not the first time they've decided to pick me up, either.






Dear Scotty, you did find me.











Carlotta's story was partly true, partly made up to convince you to testify that Madeline wanted to kill herself.















Tomorrow night?

But I have to go to work.

Don't go to work.














































































Will it be ready by tonight?












































































































Scotty, you're mine now, aren't you?
























































































He transformed you, didn't he?







































































They tried to conquer England, and then... for smaller kingdoms who fought each other.




















Father G Odvin, I'm expecting a baby, but not from Edwin.
It's the baby of that Viking, the agnar.































































































































































































































































































A woman will tell you.






How am I gonna look at a slave?




































































































No woman is worth it.



I thought Vikings raped women.














Like I'm a woman.


Do you think I need a woman to let me touch her?



















I'm good at my job.






























Yeah, really.














































































































He was around his neck when the Vikings kidnapped him as a child.


































































































- It's weird, isn't it?


























It's true.

























































My dear counselor, they made him fly.

One of my friends told me this morning that one of her friends saw him flying over Vermezzo with heavy gold chains on his arm, waving with laughter.




















































Don't worry, darling, let her.




Don't worry, darling.

















He's Red, isn't he?









- My dear madam!


There's a girl, my dear madam.






















- Is that true, Bundy?



- Is that true, Bundy?
















- She will, my dear madam.

















There's work to be done here.




































































































































- Goodbye, dear Anna!
















My dear Anna.










We need a woman.













Hurry up, you have to go to Dr. Movicher for a prescription.
Your mistress is a terrible woman.
The doctor always laughs at her.



She's cheap, isn't she?





The doctor's wife plays the piano?

From morning to evening, always the same.

Here's the recipe, my dear.























What a beautiful woman!

























You'll marry him, won't you?

































My dear Miklos, you are the Red in secret.




I don't believe in equality, my dear doctor.







- Play something for us, darling.

































Well, my dear Anna?







Good evening.



















I have a little time tonight.




It's expensive, but it's worth it.








Doctor's wife.




















































































- The doctor's not home.



















































And what will happen to us, my dear?

























































Nothing, my dear.







They'll have a baby by summer.























Tell me, Anna, is it true that the secretary will give a great reception next week?









Good evening, Anna!

At least tonight you could be punctual.


To my dearest aunt.


















They can't talk about anything else.













I hope it doesn't lead to the baby.























They're beautiful people, aren't they?













































If you don't mind, Doctor, what role do you play in Commune?



























Is it true that they found the gold chain she stole from her masters?


























- Goodbye. Honey, I'll see you again in the afternoon.






Good evening...






























































































It's a dead friend.

















Women can't resist it.












































































Signed: "A friend who doesn't want much good for you."















You women are always late.































The job is half done.
































It's your job!









































Waiting for the baby?










































This style takes into account the changed situation of women.










But, you see, darling...
Honey? Sounds like a topic.
































Signed: "A friend who begins to wish you well."




















Was it that expensive?
























































































































































































































Yeah... that kind of question between women always ends up on ridiculous scenes.












- Poor kid, how's he gonna do that?







Between you and me, women:






















Sweet thing.







Truth is, I'm in desperate need right now...

































































Nice work. I'm talking about Gisellen.
























Nice to meet you, darling! ..


































































That night, I realized she was mine. That we were reunited for a new future.


























































Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! I'm sorry, darling..."











































































































































- You're not on the job, are you?
- What job?










- Just tell me a friend.


































































It's true, Hélène, he has a wonderful voice!





























- Do you really think so?






















- You could. And you could have kids.


























































Friends offered at Monte Carlo Station.

Yeah, I had some money left. I lost them in the casino, too.




Thank you for a lovely evening, but I can be late for the last bus...







































I've been keeping an eye on you all night.
































































































- We want to offer you a job, don't we, Helen?

- A job?


































































- Is it your idea to offer me a job?

































Well, here I am, my friends...
















































- I'm gonna pay a visit to a cranky kid.












































- There are no such perverted women!






- What's true is true.



- Yeah, they're basically sick women.






















I help her with her bed every night.

































I haven't been as happy as this evening.





That we love each other and that there's nothing wrong with it.






















Congratulations! Nice work!

































































































It's great, isn't it?







































































- I gave it to you last night.







































































































That's not true!



































Let's show her to the doctor and tell her everything.











However, Doctor, the facts suggest otherwise.















- Thank you, Doctor.








Every night, Helen gives it to me.


- Tea, Doctor?




- Goodbye, Doctor, and thank you.


Really...













- That's impossible, Doctor.


















Don't be afraid... did the Doctor convince you?


















































See the woman?


Beautiful, isn't she?



































































- It's true.































Oh, Doctor!



















Come on in, kids.































































































































Really, I forgot about him...















- We'll celebrate tonight.








































- Tell me the truth!
- What truth?











The doctor was afraid it might be polio. And I told my dad about it.

























You're looking at that woman in the car!















































































































Look how much they love each other!

























































































































- I'm a friend of Mocharella's!





































































































































































































- You're spoiling me, darling!




















































- Yeah, with my job!

































































Have you seen the three women who were here with us?




























































- Do you really want to fight?














































































Come closer, darling!












I'm gonna put you in jail... taking advantage of the fact that I'm a woman!




























































Yeah, it's true.




How could I leave her with the baby?






You're a real friend.
































































































I really liked that girl, and I want to see her again.




Good evening, have you seen Rossan?




- Shintillo, really, what do they say about Rossan?





But she has such a jealous friend...

































- Looking for my friends.




- Did you find a job?
Me and the job?

















































Where's your "Good evening"?




You have to listen to this kid sing, it's a nightingale!














Have a nice evening, Fernanda! Have a nice evening, Pietro.















- We're gonna be like kids?






























My friends.






































































We stayed for the wedding dinner. We were kids...




















- Good evening, can I help you?











































































Look over there, you stupid woman!






































Mother of my love, she's a great woman.













































They weren't even home that night!

- Outside with my friend!





Tell me one thing, my daughter, and your friend they asked about it?
No! No! Because he went to town tonight to arrange a wedding day.














Your friend's embarrassed to come into the house, isn't he? I took you to the movies for four hours.


















And your masters, do they know your friend?








Almost an old friend. - Whose friend?

A good... not exactly a friend...



"Don't be fooled, you're supposed to have two free nights!"




Once, on Thursday, when the kids played ball, a very delicate señor came to see me... spoke to me and wondered if I liked it in Rome.









That's it, right there! - You've become friends?




We love each other very much.










































And the woman... " - Why so much?













































Is it true you've been here a lot?




















































































































"You'll see when you get out of here that I have friends and high-ranking acquaintances and if you have small savings..."




Sister, that woman is the death of that poor girl.

















































































































































Is she talking? - How? Yeah, because if the old man stole... then you were right to say that my friend was guilty.











But if you're a spy, trash, dirty. Who's your friend then?











- A third! - Really, she can ask him for a third?














- You really feel better?






























































































There are about a dozen applications from women who, like you, served.
















- It's a bastard! He made me distance myself from my family, my children, my wife!






She took away my affection for my child!











Mr. Judge, the truth is true!






What a night!













































Is it true that you want to go to church to pray for your Pierrot?

















































- You hear this one with your daughter! They give birth to children so they don't go to jail, and when they're here, they die that they don't see them.





































































































































































































































When he came back from fear, having heard of what he had done... he came together with her, and she became a pregnant woman.
A good soul, in the meantime, told a friend that he wasn't the first, but he, he didn't want to go into the cause anymore.



She was looking for a job... and ended up asking for charity with the girl.








Really, I always wore it in a basket.











Call a doctor! Tell the principal!





- Nothing! Let's get to work!

Let's get to work!

































"Dear Marietta"


"Dear Marietta really does call me Piero. You know me, but I don't know you.






































































































Honey! Finally!





































No, really...



































I met her one night with my friends. Venetian, blond.

































Greetings, my friends.

But remember, my friends, similar events in the future will affect you.



We can no longer keep a secret, my friends, the events and the places where they took place.

My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends, my friends.


























































































































It's always hard to say the last word over a friend's coffin.






























































But, after all, he understands the difficulty of working with such an unsatisfied race.









Have a nice flight, darling.













I love you so much, darling.

Lock all interior doors. Okay, honey...














You really don't have to worry.



























































































































































































































It's a woman and an old man.



















- Good evening, Colonel.
- Good evening.








































Make sure the woman is safe.


































Send a giant to a woman and a police officer.











































Your friends will be here very soon.
What friends?







Fine, my friend, but do it very slowly.












































































In my country, we refuse the risk of fighting each other. We don't value our own life on my planet.













































































Did you catch that woman? A ghost in the form of a woman?





My friends, you have seen the reconstruction of events based on witness testimony.


























































Anyway, either I get my money from you tonight or I find a new tenant.








I had a problem with women, too.




















You're a good friend.















What about work on the railroad?


So you're out of work?






I'll get you a job as soon as we get back.












Isn't that cool?

Fireflies and kerosene lights burn in the evenings.














I don't think I'm going to this job.







- Not if you don't have a job.


















































































































Are you really gonna sign me up for this job?




Bullet brought many of its friends here, but I didn't feel that attached to any of them.






















I don't have money, I don't have a job... and there's almost no future.











Really?













Really?










































But it's so expensive.


























































She sees you in the mornings and in the evenings, and I don't...

















"As long as Krishna has his knot of hair and flute, "there's always a woman to serve him."

Dear Pulu, you must be aware of what happened.



I don't know, I really do, but I know why I want to be free.









































I didn't come here to work.
















































I don't have time. I have to start a new job on Monday.




I made a deal. He's gonna be taken up by friends in my home village.




























And I'm your friend.














- Commander. Dan, I think you've heard a lot about Dr. Clifford Kent, too?
- Doctor.

Dr. Kent has done a lot of work in designing and building your submarine.

Dr. Hunt, Nobel Prize Laureate in Oceanography?






















Of course, I don't want to talk about Lieutenant Captain Holloway being the best commander in our fleet, Julie, and not that he's my best friend...



I don't think I should tell you that Rif, our mutual friend, is on the submarine, the main wolf in our wolf pack.

And when it comes to women, it's like he's acting like a built-in sonar.








I'm the mother of your three children.
























Oh, my dear...











Jimmy and I were just gonna take the kids off at the country house.








This is Sir Ian Hunt and Dr. Clifford Kent.



- Dr. Kent, we couldn't see each other before?







































- Dr. Nielsen.
- Dr. Nielsen?









I should have known right away, as soon as I heard, "Doctor."































Are you kids small?











Well, all our work will remain completely secret to everyone.





































Guys, none of you have seen Dr. Nielsen?



Dr. Nielsen.










You all, graduates of commercial schools, look alike, don't you?




















It symbolizes what I'm willing to do for her, what a hard job I'm willing to do for what I believe in.















































































































And then, on July 3rd, Dr. Kent and Sir Ian held an urgent meeting with Rif and Commander.














So, according to you, our "friend" from the plate has to go back to the pole regularly to recharge his batteries?































Captain, Dr. Kent.










































- Right at our one-eyed friend.




Doctor, I've taken into account the destruction that Cyclops has already done, and what else he can do in the future if we don't stop him right now.






















































So Dr. Nielsen's right.

















- What do you say, Doctor?
















- Powell, go back to Dr. Nielsen.

Okay, let's get to work.
We're listening to you, Doctor.




- That's great, Doctor.



Doctor, tell Reef to make sure he frees us first before we start moving.































All right, get back to work, we need to finish this as soon as possible.








I believe our friend Cyclops is back to life.











































Your friend was supposed to stay put.




































































Well, that's the only thing we can do if our space friend decides to take off.


















We're gonna fight them hard together, aren't we?









He was our friend, and we're gonna tell a story about him that even she, his mother, doesn't know about.












































































































































































Good woman!
















Really!

















































- Hey, buddy.




- Look, man...



















































































































































































































































Alesha, would you like to meet a friend, a real friend, for the rest of your life?










- You're really thirsty, aren't you?

















































- Really?














































At least he'll know the truth.


















It's... it's better the truth.












































































I'm stupid, aren't I?






































Kids!



Let's take the wounded, the injured women and children.






































It's hard work, no men.


































That's all we wanted to say about our friend Alesha Scratelsov.



















- And the woman? - My wife.










He's losing his job, Joseph.

















































































































I'm the second face, and you're my friend.





































The loyalty of old friends.
Judah, we have to trust each other.
































This brooch is for a woman.































































































I inherited a friend, not a slave.


















































As long as you meet a woman and marry her?










































































By sentencing an old friend, I'm gonna be a scary force.






















But there's no truth in that!








































































































































































































































































Why don't you come back with your friends and wives?





Believe me, my friend, it's very good to have a lot of wives.













Come to me, my children.























You're their friend! They're very picky friends.



Go, my children, go.




























Now the kid's grown up, and he's gonna start doing his job.









































My good old friend.


Yeah, yeah, it's true.












My old friend.

































I'm gonna wear it until I meet a woman who's gonna be my wife.


























Great job!
















































































































- Me too! Wait, my dear protectors of the homeland.

























































































































I'm looking for two women, mother and daughter.
There's a lot of women here.



































































































































































































































You really want to spend these two weeks with me, don't you?











It's from his friend Tiersellin.














He goes out every night, and when he's his age, you have to go to bed on time.


But I can't ask his friend to take me to the village.








































I don't think it's a good sight for a kid.








































































- Oh, these women, I thought about it all the time, we make love to them, waste time with them, and then...










Same with women. I think I'm gonna get this over with.































- See you tonight?
I'm working tonight.




























































- Of course you can. It's for my friend. Come on.








My friend's been asked a lot for tomorrow, he doesn't have time to do it.




It's a weird thing to do. And they still say the French are supposed to help each other.













































Yeah, I know, but I'm afraid your friend's gonna get you on a Wednesday where money means a lot more than we do.














You're leaving, we're staying. Get some rest for the whole family and have fun with your friend.














Nice kids we have.








































































- Paul's the one who gives him a job.






















All women can sew.


























Tonight, Monsieur Tiersellin, only Burgundy.














































































- Don't leave, darling, but curfew?


































- "Dear Mom, Daddy, Pierret, first I'll say I'm okay, I've been standing there all the time."








- What happened, darling?





































































Of course, he did all the dirty work, and you get the money.












































Worse, my friend, the last semester is two.


Luckily, I have time while he's in the village, not with this woman.











Can I see you? See that woman at the table with the man and the girl?
















Yeah, I really don't know that.

















Maybe he's poor, but he's a doctor of law.





















With women? Right. See, you think as much as I do.




It's not about trust, but as far as relationships with women are concerned, I've taken action with Paul.































Monsieur Micheau and I talked about raising children.









Kids get curious, you better watch them.

























Really, what do you think of me?
















































Really, why not?






















































Honey.






























































































































































Honey, what's going on here?
















Of those women you can meet in a bar.






















Yeah, honey, I don't know who to return them to.




- Really? - Stealing from thieves.
















Kids, to the bomb shelter!


It's warm here, isn't it?






I just wanted to talk to you about what happened at your friend Tircelina's tonight.
















No, I want us not to hide anything from each other.
Well, I've already met her tonight.













































































And this is a friend, a true friend.















































































I'm sorry, dear cousin, but I've been rude a lot.










- What do you think of our friend's tactics?












"Dear Mother, I made a very good trip.


















I thought you were a free woman.























Leave me alone. I'm going to work.


Yeah, it's true.






I'll show my dear cousin this little brothel.






















You can be useful to my friend. He's got grief.











I thought I told you my friend had grief.



































The King is me, my children!




- No, I really have to go.






Be brave, darling.
Ah, these women...


















































Figaro is waking up in me, dear cousin.


































































It's true, you like to read.


















I think that's a better way of working.
Paul invited his friends to what he said, "a little party."










- Hello, darling.


Charles, my cousin. And this is my friend.















































Ramo, my old friend!










Come on, my children.















You know, when I said I was waiting for you, it was true.
What a joy, darling!






















Let me introduce you to my Italian friend Count Arkangelo Minerva...





Paris, my dear!



This is my Italian friend.


And entertainment is my job.



My dear Augustine!

Good evening, Paul.






Real friends.




- My friend.





































































































My poor Charles. But that's what any woman wants.









































And since she's jealous, she sees evil in all women.



















I need a woman.



You, woman, come here!




You promised me women.
I want women.

You know, Arkangelo, if a woman doesn't want...

You need women and I need money.













































We've been wandering around a little bit. With women.

Really?















































My dear friend.


Dear Monsieur, I'm very confused.




You may have been a little funny, but you were the soul of the evening.




By the way, could you give me my friend Delbeck's address?








- Dear Monsieur, I'm sorry again.





















That's a lot of work!























Aren't you ashamed to get your cousins back against each other?






























































I love Charles. Yeah, really, I love him very much...















































All I'm telling you is the truth.































- Is that true?





















- Do we really want to help her?

It's true, Florence.






















































Love each other, my lambs.













































Is that true, Florence?

I'm your friend.































- Compensate it with your work.










Good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Don't waste a minute. Let's get to work!




Let's get to work! Let's get to work!

















I'm following my friend's advice.







"I think of everything you've done for me, dear mother.











- No, really, no.








I have a lot of work to do.






















































































Notice, she's still a good friend.


















Let's get to work!








































Really?




Am I not living proof that work is useless?










My friends...







Here you go, darling, cover yourself, or you'll catch a cold.
Ladies and gentlemen, good evening!



















It's a job.












































Women again?












As long as there's no women.























I wasn't myself last night.




















"Woman, come here!"








Will you come to my place tonight?






It's a rough Saturday night.
- I'm tired of women.






































- I have to admit, you know women very well.



























































Look, your friend is already happy.















Are you afraid my friend will rape you?























"There's a woman for every man."













Sorry for the curiosity, is it true that they always check the engines before they take off?





























































- That's my friend's brother.





















































































- Women are usually not as simple as they seem at first.


Isn't that right, Joseph?














We almost ruined your evening.









'Cause I have a rich friend. He could use it.














































































That's a weird job.









I've met your friend before.






We'll meet again and see if we're made for each other.




































It's true.







You only had one woman?







































- Get out of here, she's been waiting for you all night.

























Saturday night, you can find a girl in about half an hour.






























































































So, darling, you're lonely?




- What are you doing tonight?






- Really?


















































But I already have the body of an adult woman.
Blacks my age already have children.













































- Really?

















The French like all kinds of women.





















































Don't be. My friend likes chestnuts, too.




















I keep thinking about one woman.























































- Great. 7:00 P.M.?
























































- We're wasting time demanding women.
































































































A woman has fun with a man to forget her former partner.





















I'm not the kind of woman you like.







































Good job.







































My dear Etienne, it's a pleasure to meet you.







































I want to have a child from a real man...















So you're okay with the test children?
















Leave the kids alone.






- Tell me, are they yours or my children?






















In front of the kids.








Drink when you've done your job.
- What job?




I'm sick of feeding you, take your wife and kids and get out of here!



Because it's a man's job.



























The night he was alone with me, he didn't say a word.


And then there are kids, and you don't know where they came from.




































































You're not here about the job?
I want to have a baby.













I'm so sorry, I want to have a baby.
















But I'm not here to be a maid, I'm here to have a baby.
But during your hours of work, you will have the opportunity to see the professor and tell him about your intentions.






What's my job?

















The production of children is equally important and should be entrusted to specialists.














Fine, my dear Russo.

Tell me, my dear Russo.

I am a simple man, my dear Russo.







My dear Laurent.
Dear Madeleine.

























Their child is the result of artificial insemination.






- How old is the baby?











Need a job?














































































































You know, we got together with some friends on the riverside.













































Even if couples decide on artificial insemination to have a baby, if they love each other, sometimes they have... certain connections.

In short, the baby.
And what are you going to do with this child born naturally?

























- my baby...
























































Hey, you looking for your friends?










- Really?












Your friends left without you.




It's true, it's three kilometers to the nearest station.























































Finished the job?
























You, dear Titin, have the same brain as a caveman.



















- What about the baby?





























































The kids fell asleep, too, so I came to help.

- Thank you, my dear Titin.












































- Go, go, I'll look after the kids.































































But if my cousin Etienne is elected president, millions of women will use artificial insemination.


We're providing jobs to over 200,000 people.

And if they don't, the workers will be out of work, in poverty, their children will die because of...
Mothers will have to leave their children.


You don't speak well, but I don't want my mother to leave the baby.











Dear cousin, it's good to see you again.

















Sometimes, at the time of writing reports at the factory... a mountain of numbers every day... what to say, intellectual work...






















































I assure you, my dear Russo, this jacket is too narrow for me.





































- Are you expecting a baby? - Can you imagine how lucky I am?
My baby?

- The baby...


I'm gonna go find a needle with a thread-- work here for a few minutes.














By the way, dear Nenett, what's your full name?







I give you advice, woman!

































The unknown hair that the women of Hiroshima woke up this morning and found that they had fallen out.
































I saw both those who avoided it and those who were in the womb of the women of Hiroshima.






Women risk giving life to underdeveloped children, monsters, but it goes on.







































































You're like a thousand women together.


I don't mind being like a thousand women together.







Oh, really.


























You're a very beautiful woman.






I noticed that last night at the cafe.




You were bored in a way that made a man want to meet a woman.


















































Really?

It's true.

So you let me come to your room last night.



When you talk, I wonder if you're lying or telling the truth.
I'm lying, and I'm telling the truth.








































Really.








Little by little, it passed. And then, when I had kids, of course.

I say, little by little, it's gone. And then, when I had kids, of course.




































They say there's gonna be a storm by tonight.

























I'm a woman who's happy with her husband.







































Would you be cold in this cellar in Nevers if we loved each other?






A kid can get around it all the time.


























































































They think it's their duty to shave a woman.





















At 6:00 p.m., the bells of St. Etienne's Cathedral are ringing in the summer and winter.


Before, when we loved each other, when we were very happy.

I remember what I've seen before. Before, when we loved each other, when we were very happy.





















































Tonight?
Yeah, I remember tonight.

























We may die, never seeing each other again.












I lied to you tonight with a stranger.

































































Never, which I forgot, tonight I'd like to see you again.









Little spicy girl from Never, tonight I'm forgetting you.









We're sorry to break up.










































♪ Well, all friends now ♪




♪ We have to help a friend not to lose his job ♪
♪ We trust each other just like our superiors ♪



















































Well, of course I'll be in charge.







- Really?






















I'm not afraid of hard work.




























You might be interested to know that FRISCO has always been used to wash my children's diapers, and that no child has ever had a rash since birth.











































































































Dear Windrash, your meeting yesterday with Mr. Bartlett, CEO of the British Corset Company, brackets,









- Hello, my dear.










Oh, really?













Actually, it was Coxie's idea that I should hire you.


Well, I guess you're just gonna lead, darling.


















Oh, no, no, no, no, no, dear lady!





















The sad days passed have been replaced by a vision of a bright, rose-colored future for them, with a sense of happiness on their way to work.























Good, uh... nice stuff, huh, friend?








It's my job as a human resources man.

















Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, My dear, the only natural ability of these bastards is the ability to get away from work.


I was exhausted last night.




I just need to think about how you can do your job without these bastards realizing anything.








Yeah, all you have to worry about is remembering to connect her to the network tonight when you're done, so that the batteries are fully charged when you come in in the morning.




Maybe, but one of these loaders must be able to do the work of a dozen people.







Mr. F. Kite Chief delegate from the workers (working committee)... so when he started talking about efficiency and doing the work of 10 people, Brother Carter suggested that I report this to the working representative in all its forms.

In the conduct of the meeting, Brother Chairman, if he's one of these people in measuring productivity, we have to act quickly, otherwise he's gonna have a timer on the job, and we're gonna be working on a tougher schedule for the same salary.







If you don't mind, I'll start my own work from there.



















I don't know, they're hiring full-on idiots now, right?































Have you ever done a job like this?





- Alf, call off all loaders.




My dear, we live in a welfare state.

Go to x.................................................................................................
















After due discussion, Major Hitchcock, the working committee was forced to suspend its work in accordance with the wishes of our members.
















Let's be perfectly honest with each other, Major.






















Yeah, and besides, give him a good shot first because he hired that idiot.


Of course, go on, my dear.





But didn't you say he was incompetent and couldn't do the job properly?








Well, I think we can all congratulate ourselves on a very productive job this morning.
It's been a long time since we've had such a break.



















My dear sir, no.



















He started work this morning.
























- Really?






















Uh, dad, tell mom I'll come back later tonight, okay?

You're working overtime, aren't you?




Really?
What a job!




Um... say tomorrow night?
Tomorrow night?

- Tomorrow night, then.






























All fields and fields and ballet in the evenings.

Uh... you haven't read any of Lenin's work, have you?











- No, no, really.





- Good evening.



Well, where are you going, in that case, tonight, please tell me.




That would be kind of you, wouldn't it, Cynthia?


Look, Stanley, you don't want to leave yet, do you?





















You know, I thought if he lived here, he might be a very good friend to Cynthia.






Ah, no, dear friend, I'm not kidding.





Yeah, but assuming Bertie's right and they can't do the job?
You want the job done urgently.
















Your teeth are really your own?

















I saw it last night.





Not his job.
He doesn't have to do the work of others, does he?













I hate the very mention of such a terrible thing as work.



































The vice-president brings this code to the black people for whom we're working under contract.








I sent you here to do the job, Waters, and you just don't do it.














- Get to work.
















Hard work and a sense of duty.



(Phoneplay: "intercourse" also - sexual intercourse)...fragileness in any form, requires more efficiency and honesty in the performance of each and every one of their jobs, for fair pay, I'll add it so as not to be monotonous.



Now go back and get to work.


Thank you, my dear.












Yeah, they're really good, aren't they?

Oh, really?








- Oh! Really?


















Are you sure I'm not distracting you from your work?





























- agreed to a new timeline.



- Why? Waters knows as well as I do that you have to really chronograph a person when you're doing a job.



A man with almost no work experience.







In fact, Windrash's speed is much higher.


What you call them the natural rhythm of work is neither natural nor rhythmic, nor has anything to do with work.


All right, take this and get to work.

























They allegedly contain certain measurements made by the administration, which directly affect the payment of the work you do.
































All he asked was how to do more work for less money.
But I didn't work so hard, and I did the job in half the usual time.
Well, at this speed, it only takes half of the current number of drivers.










Windrash, your case will be taken up tonight at the division meeting.




You all heard what was said in the speech about working with the coloured.
Next thing you know, it's the blacks here doing our job, as happened to the buses in Birmingham.











































I need time to get permission to hand the contract over to my friend Mr. Cox.








- My dear boy!











Good evening, Mother.
Good evening, Mr. Kite.

- Good evening, Cynthia.


















- Good evening.




















- Good evening.
- Good evening.
- Good evening, friends.
- Good evening.


- That's right, man.





Of course, friend.



















My friend, my political position is a matter of my conscience and the ballot box.

Look, friend, the interests of class workers are historically diametrically opposed to the property rights that underlie the party you just mentioned.













I'm not quite sure the truth.



Boycott for hard work?







Don't you want to go back to work?






















Really?

























































































































































But the thing is, Mr. Kite, I've decided to go back to work.






































- Yes, darling, that's right.


There he is, darling.







- Yes, darling, of course.



































Maybe when you feel like you want to go back to work, I'll come back.







The CEO of Union Jack, Mr. Sidney Dever Cox, said last night:
































































- Really?
































Let's just say you agree to get the people back to work, and I guarantee I'll fire Windrash as soon as all this noise stops.










Of course not, darling.













It's been hours, darling.



And the children of Babylon were destroyed, and became indecent in the sight of debauchery. (Probably the distortion of the Old Testament - the prophet Isaiah (Yeshaig) and the New Testament)



What can be done with women?






Takes time to figure out who your friends are, doesn't it?









I mean, it's not like she's overworked.











He's quitting his job because of his poor health caused by overwork.












My quitting my job would be too easy to get out of this situation.

















This evening, at 8:30, we show our popular discussion program "Polemica" again, and our theme tonight is an ongoing industrial strike.





























































Good evening.















And that's why... that's why we're resisting the administration's attempt to overload a man with work.

That's why we're obstructing the work of the barkbrachers.













As my friend Knowles would say, I must have looked like a complete idiot.






















Each for need, each for as few as possible, and no overtime, except on Sundays for double pay.

Mr. Chairman, I think we should all try to be fair to each other.










































Without being satisfied with this, you questioned the motives and actions of your fellow workers in the person of their representative, Mr. Kyth.









Mr. Trayspercell and Mr. Kite insisted that your behavior could only be explained by the deterioration of your health caused by overwork at work.




- Easy here, isn't it?







































♪ Well, all friends now










































Won't you come over tonight?












































- Thank you, Doctor.































I'd like to come by tonight and bring you some moist caviar.













































































- Have a nice evening.











- Good evening.































Until I get a doctor's degree, I'm just a doctor's student.


















Good method, isn't it?




































































Oh, darling...


You looked very healthy tonight.































































































































And the lacquers of a great job.






































Looks like it's true.






























































I shouldn't have? But he's a doctor.
















You're a doctor, aren't you?


































































































































































Please come in, Doctor.
He's angry when they call him a masseuse. Call him "Doctor."
Doctor, I'm so sorry.



- Hana, take the doctor to the master.

































I'm used to just doing my job.




































































It's like a woman woke up in me.












The doctor warned me a few months ago that I should be healthy.











I'm looking for Dr. Codam.

Shouldn't the doctor come now?
Will you tell the doctor?








































































































The doctor said yesterday that the pressure should drop.






























































































































Canmoty's friends all confirm that.

































































Do you have children, Megre?
Nope. But I'd like to have a baby.













































Yes. Take it, my friend.






























Charles Lucé, great job.














































































You don't think the basic truth is that ducks can be hunted tonight.



You were her friend?

She was a very kind, but completely stupid woman.











Either you're local or your work is about travel.























Imagine, it's his job. His work.

















































Between you and me, she was a beautiful woman.

















Doctor.


















Someone wrote to this woman four days ago:
























You really think it's a crime?































I'm not talking about this morning, I'm talking about last night.





































































Hello. My dear Master, I want to see you as soon as possible.





Thank you, dear Master.









Are you sure you spent the evening in Mulen?



















































































































A week ago, I went to threats, demanded a summary. He said Lucien Sabatier's name. Anyway, I pissed off that poor woman consciously.

























































I mean, really, he's been anywhere.




























































Where was Sabatier that night?
Look, my friend, journalism can go a long way. She'll take you to the investigator's office.









No, it was a woman's death.























No, from St. Fiakrov's inheritance, my dear.















I'm asking because I'm a friend of Maurice's.

I was alone last night.
































Yes. But tomorrow night, maybe I'll have time.




































Listen, Lulu, you have an antique friend.




































He's coming tonight.

Ask him to come into the castle by 7:00 p.m.



































I don't forget anything - neither where we are, nor that a woman died here under mysterious circumstances.






















































































































- Good evening, Monsieur Megre.
- Good evening, Madame Gautier.


















Right to speak, your glass is empty, dear Master.









I think you were a friend of our lovely dead woman, too.

As I told these gentlemen, the position of our Commissioner's friend is very delicate.
























Good evening, Mr. Curé.

- Good evening. - Good evening.






So, Doctor, you don't drink?
Good evening, Mr. Curé.






I don't know what's wrong with you, darling, don't be so sulking.

We're taking care of our business, dear friend.



























No, my dear, it's a professional distortion.




Six, one of which will be behind bars tonight.




































My dear Master, there is a charge against your client.








Exactly, my dear, my client had no motive.



The inheritance doesn't interfere with the sale, dear Master. But this time it's all yours.








You went to the newspaper the night she reported the suicide.






















































































































And so did the Count, and this one went there all night-- here.












As for your bastard son, it's gonna cost him more.





























































































































































You can do it again, man.




























































































































































































































Is that true?
Is that true or false?











































It's true.

























































Did you really eat human me with New G's?
















































































































































































































I really think I lost her.






- I'm gonna ice the yarn's work behind the fire.









































































































































































Sorry, this woman's bad.







































Good evening, Mr. Thornhill.
Good evening, Victor. I'm looking for Mr. Weltner with my friends.












































My friends stayed at the bar.






Really?















Good evening.





















Your friends took the wrong guy when they put me in the car.




The guests are here, darling.






















































































































Your patient, Doctor.





Doctor, I'm drunk.



















































Roger, darling, we were so worried.






I haven't met that woman before yesterday.











Mr. Thornhill told us he was brought to this house last night, supposedly your husband's friends got him drunk and put him in a car.




























Right here, darling.












Really?






















Our friend, speaking at the General Assembly today.


































Last night, around 6:00!































































































Were you at home last night?





















































No, my dear, we are not heartless.








Yeah, honey, I know.

































- I'll see my friends out.












- Good evening, sir. One place?



























Because honest women scare me.





I mean, once I meet an attractive woman, I start pretending I don't want to look after her.













































































Your friend?



























I doubt I'll see you tonight.





































You have good taste in clothes, food, and women.

You sell people things they don't need, make women who don't know you fall in love with you.







































































Really?






































We'll meet again, won't we?



















































































Which means I won't let you go anywhere from now on, darling.





Then we would always be there for each other and we wouldn't break up. Do you understand what I mean?

















































































































Good evening, Mr. Kaplan.
Before we start calling each other different words, state your name.
































She invests all her soul in her work.

















Or are you gonna ask this woman to kiss again and poison her to death?









Goodbye, darling.





























































































































































I'm getting too old for this job.












We don't interfere with the work of the police until the need arises.











So is your friend, Mr. Vandamm.







































I have a job, a secretary, a mom, two ex-wives and some bartenders who depend on me. If I get killed, it's gonna disappoint them.

























It became obvious to him last night that she had feelings for a man he thought was an agent.



















































































Considering it's not exactly your job.

















Goodbye, darling.














After your angry friend Vandam leaves tonight, you and I will meet and apologize to each other for a long time, alone.


























Shot Mr. Kaplan twice in front of the frightened men, women and children who came to the park to see the monument on the mountain.














































































Sometimes the truth has the taste of rot.





















Yeah, you think it's something, too, don't you, Lenard?
Hurry up, darling, we have to go!



Like our friends, I want everything to be clean, Lenard.









To you, darling, and the nice moments we've had.





























































Hands and hearts, darling.






















































Tea, darling.
I said, "Thai, honey."









No, darling.


If you had to replace someone who was sick or something, you wouldn't have called Admiral for that, would you?




































































































































And your figure is becoming like it used to be. Isn't that right, girl?









- He's got two kids.










One idea is I thought about having a party on Saturday night.


















I'm gonna call her tonight and do some outreach work.









Really? Mm-hmm.






























































































































































I have two children:













































I understand he's an Englishman and he's doing research here.









































Yeah, my kids.














































I'm gonna have to demand that they be replaced tonight.































Maybe it's a kid or someone who doesn't know Morse code?








They shouldn't even have electricity to work as a transmitter.





















Dr. Fletcher?








And... anything for the baby?




































- Now tell them the truth.
- And I told them the truth.























But if Dr. Fletcher can't give it to you... then I'm not sure if I have the right.






























Besides, darling, I doubt if they're still in the shops.







Look, honey, we're going on a long trip.




We don't need to talk about this much, do we?
























Honey...














I know women don't usually like it, but sometimes I like it.

Sometimes, as a child, and sometimes... as I probably deserve... but no one has ever treated me so nicely... and hasn't looked at me like I'm my wife.














I'm also used to the idea that my wife and children are... at home and safe.



My children... all our plans from the day they were born...






















































He's married to a girl named Sharon, and they have two kids.








































































How do you tell a woman you love that she needs to kill herself and her child?








You have a wife and a baby, you need to change your diapers.






























































































Last night my stomach got upset, but I got Alka Zeltzer from the pharmacy.


















































- You're an egghead, aren't you?























- Mr. Osborne is doing his job well.



































































- Oh, honey, I'll never leave you again.















- You're coming to the race, aren't you?























































The doctor said he was bad.













- Dr. King will look after you.

























Forgive those of us who are weak, as we forgive each other.











Tell me your decision before tonight.




Tell me the truth.









She's a little calmer now that the doctor's here.












































































But it's all over now, isn't it?











Honey...


























































































































Isn't that funny?








Do you love a woman named Eurydice?

























































































It's just that we like each other.














































































This woman is much smarter than you.
















































It looks great, doesn't it?









Is it true that the sun rises from your guitar game?














- Yeah, it's true.






















He just left with a woman.





























































- Beautiful, isn't she?











Mira's costume is beautiful, isn't it?








When it comes to women, you have no equal!



- She's better than the world, isn't she?







A woman like that doesn't need costumes!





You never waste time, do you?
































































































































































































It's true!
































































What if you really go dancing for me?


































































































































































It's true, Orpheus. Wait, wait!






They really loved each other.


































































































































It's my duty to ask this question to everyone, so it's supposed to be... and to tell you the truth, when you work here...














I'm in your hands like a sleeping baby.























He's a good player, isn't he?

















































































































































































You're gonna do your homework.
































We're here to talk about the baby!

No one wants a coloured baby.

I have too little apartment and too many kids.


Having kids isn't cheap.









It's necessary that there be a woman in the house.


















































Maybe a beautiful forest, or a beautiful woman.







































Good evening, Paw.





This young gentleman won the biggest prize all night.





































































Sit down, my friend.






































































































But how would you stay where you lost everything: home, wife, child?








































































I taught children that coloured and white races are equal.














































































You seem to forget that we hunt ducks, not children.










































And then you poachers will beware of each other.












































But that night...
I need a job, whatever it is.























































What about the job?















Is it really...?














After 15 minutes, we became friends.













Your friend came by, told me about you.









That's what the doctor said, isn't it, Jeanne?































He was robbing his friends.











No, no, you're wrong, my friend...












































































My associates and I understood each other perfectly.




















































My friend, of course, while you were at my house, your room was searched.






















Is that true?








But you see, I don't have a job that's legal anyway.




















Tell me the truth... do you think I'm a thief?














But most of the money I lost or spent on women.



And why did I look at the baby?



But it's not a crime to have a baby!













I'll take care of the baby.



The police and I lost sight of each other and I calmed down.




































































































































And the guide is a woman!



You just don't know women very well.










































You're making things easier, my dear, you're making things easier...

















































































































Sweet old lady, isn't she?







































He didn't want or could not leave his wife and children.












She must have thought we were right for each other.
It's funny, isn't it?

































































I really don't know.







Good evening.


































































































































































































It's true. She had 16th place.






























































































Yeah, no one noticed, really.








Like kids.
Well, it's like kids.
































































He wasn't older than me, and he didn't have kids or a wife.
























Goodbye, Doctor.






















For years, they've been waiting for a baby... and finally, their dream came true.




So, on this great and joyful day, when the whole kingdom... was celebrating the long-awaited addition to the royal family... and good King Stephen and his queen hosted... their old friend.






























I also regret the gift to your child.













Try, darling.

My dear princess... if this filthy witch trick succeeds... and you're stabbing... everything won't be lost... then... I give you hope then.





Have a cup of coffee, darling.










You know, honey, it's easy to say...













No, no, darling, princess.









Oh, honey.




She can't know everything, honey.










That a foster child is being raised by three peasant women... living in the dark forest.

Yes, very good women.





Bringing up a kid?





















Give it back, darling.




And here's the King and his King with a heavy heart... standing and watching... as their greatest value, their only child... disappears in the darkness of the night...





































- No, honey, it's pink.

















- Just take your time, darling.


- Bye-bye, darling.
















- You don't have to do this, darling.








Come here, darling.









It's a lovely dealer, isn't it?

- We've decided it's gonna be pink.






- That's because you're on, honey.

























Why do they treat me like a child?

































Really?














Tonight.






It's a very unusual cake, isn't it?


Of course, darling.



















- Clean the room, darling.










































- Really?






That's not the point, darling.












He's coming here tonight!



























Kids need their own nest, right?
A place where they will give birth and raise their own children.























































Our children are destined to fall in love with each other.


























































This way, darling.


Now, darling, if you sit here...


Well, darling...





It's not for us to decide, darling.
































































































So arm yourselves... here's a shield of dignity... and a mighty sword of truth. This righteous weapon will prevail over the forces of evil.
















The sword of the truth of work is a lot... so that evil will die and good will triumph!
















Fawn, what's the matter, darling?























Good evening.


















































- So what? We have work to do.











































































































When I get a job, I'll take you to the best restaurant.
So what about the job?





- What job?











It's Polakov. I'm offering you a job.








































































To go to Urbana for one night?
















Baby, what are you doing tonight?
- Tonight?

- I have plans for tonight.

- Really?

Are you gonna be home all night?






















































Really?






























































No one's asking you to have a baby.






























































































































































I can't stand two things while I'm at work: one, drinking, and the other, men.























































You're a real friend.

I... it's just that girls have to help each other out.























- Isn't that ridiculous?






















You know, honey, that's the only way to travel.


































































































- Really?










Then they start taking money from you, spending it on other women and racing.



You pull yourself together, you find another job and another saxophonist.













- Really?


















































Isn't she adorable?

























































And watch the road.











































- What are you doing tonight?











- See what it's like for women?























They yelled like doves, lent each other lipstick. I saw everything.

































She's gonna bite me, I'm gonna rub her, we're gonna rub each other.
































































































I'd remember a beautiful woman like you.






- Are you busy tonight?
- Tonight?


























































































- I'll introduce you tonight.














I've seen what cheap tricks you flaunt women, but it's the cheapest, the lowest...






































































Because we're friends.

































And we'll play every night.







He really does have a bicycle.
























































































































































I'm not Dr. Freud, I'm not gonna take Mayo or the French girls, but can I try?
































































- Don't treat me like a child.













In time, I'll tell him the truth.









































I'll see him again tonight.




- Really?





Friends of the Italian opera. That's it.














































































































Hello, my dear.
























































They're probably more expensive than gold.








Goodbye, darling.

































































If they're not caught in Chicago, we're done here.













































What's a couple of months for friends?



































































I can't have children.
































































































































































Snodgrass, of course, my friend. And there's no way I'm gonna hurt him.












































































































































































































































































Are we friends again?































Good evening, ma'am.








- Good evening, ma'am.
- Good evening.



Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.























































































Where's our friend?















































































You know about women, don't you?


Wife and two kids.











































































Eat, drink, talk about women.


































We were friends.
We'll always be friends.

I'm not talking about knowing each other's names.











































Women like polo.

Still, I'm a man, you're a woman. How about this?











They're thousands of miles away. It'll be years before we can see each other.





























































































































































































































Your friend's fine!



Your friend says, "Good luck!" I don't know.










































































































- Risk is your job, Captain.



























































































































































































Tell me... is it true that you were suspended once?







































Mr. Gunderson has a lot of friends in the shipping business.























































I'll pick her up tonight.













































I don't have any official duties until tonight.



























































I thought you were particularly fond of this place.



















These statements contain a number of statements that are directly contradictory to each other.



"I swear to Almighty God that the testimony I will give will be true, only the truth...
-...and nothing but the truth."














































































I swore to tell the truth, Your Honor.















































































































































Then we have to help each other!


- Is that true?
- Really.
- Isn't that why you came?



























Work has already begun on the rehabilitation of the upper body.
































































Well, of course, my dear!

























Don't you think it'd be nicer to tell me the truth another day?


Is that true?


It's true, ma'am.











































































































































































Good evening, Herr Stark.
Good evening, Herr Consul.





Yeah, I just got back from the village yesterday. When it gets dark in the evening, you miss the city...






All the apartments seem to be ten, counting the ones that go into the yard. But we don't know much about each other... so we don't have gossip here.

























- Good evening, Louise.
- Good evening, Consul.
Did you stay home all night? You didn't go out?
- Never! These bright evenings make me sad.

When the lights are lit again in the fall, I feel calm again, and I can walk again in the evenings.





























First the dead man was taken away, then the widow and the children left... then the furniture was taken away...







































When I last got married, I wasn't old because we had a baby very soon...












Yeah... we had a baby and then neither she nor I-- we didn't want to have kids anymore. And then when my daughter grew up...






- You know, about her fate, about the baby? - No, no...















Good evening, Fröken...




































































Maybe they're killing each other.












































- That's my baby!















But it's my portrait... with the baby!
























For the baby...















































My brother and I live like two old gentlemen who don't come too close to each other... and we don't go into too much honesty.
If you're neutral among people, there's a distance between people and you... well, at a distance, we treat each other better.










It's impossible... the punk waits here, and she has a husband and a kid at home.




















They're all in a hurry to go home... everyone... has someone to talk to and spend the evening...


























And tell me frankly, in your memories... which of the two looks more expensive and closer to you-- Wife or child?

I don't separate them from each other. That's why I didn't try to keep the baby.









I guess the baby was more important to me than anything else.


Since she saw a beautiful kid in the park... she went to meet him with open arms.
And the handsome child responded to her caress by biting her cheek and showing her tongue.





















Just think: I may not recognize my child!




























And finally, to get rid of him somehow, I put him in this box...








He bought it for me to reduce the long waiting hours... before the baby was born...















But, of course, he's gonna ask about the baby...
He's got to help me find my baby...












Now I love peace and loneliness... but most of all my child!











He'll help you for the baby...




Is that you, Mom? Good evening...

Louise is already behind the chess, but she's had a lot of work today, and she's tired...














Louise and I were entertaining each other...

























And the baby?






































It was true... and you have nothing to blame yourself for.



- I couldn't say... that I was too old when I married you, then the birth of a child would have been ambiguous...
It was our baby, wasn't it?
















If I had a fight with anyone, he became your friend.



That's why I waited for the baby to be born.


You were gradually corrupting my friends... trying to get my brother to do me wrong.
But the worst part is... you cast a shadow on the very birth of your child... with your pointless chatter...


And the worst thing about this case is that this gossip got to the baby, and your daughter found out that her mother...





- No, it's true!




He's an old friend at home and his mother.

That's awful! For a child...










































A child at all!
I knew he'd run away... but with a woman!


Although, to tell you the truth, it made my suffering easier. Now I see that there is justice in the world.





Where's your baby?
My baby?














We all have to help each other...
































This jam needs to be followed like a small child...

















































What about the baby?
I've given up a lot of things a long time ago... and to tell you the truth... it doesn't bother me that much since she came...




Good evening, my child!




















And the baby!


















It took him to be with this woman... and he became insincere with me...















Where's my baby?




- So Agnes was really with him?
- Yeah... just like your baby...


I came up and asked him for an explanation, and Gerda grabbed the kid and disappeared with him in the crowd...


















Where's my baby?










Mother and child...













Fru Gerda went to her mother's house in Dalarna, and she wants to live there with her baby.
And the mother and child in the village... in a good house!




















































It's 5:00 p.m.


































Just for tonight, pretend I'm sewn up.
















Work done.



It's weird, isn't it?






















































Woman.




























































You'll do it, darling.































My weaknesses are my business, women are just toys.
























Why don't you get a decent job?

I want a serious job.

































They did a good job today.































Enough to do this job.





































Do it tonight.








































But we're not kids.
















































Too expensive?






I have a friend who worked there.





























Did she finish her job?


































You don't need a doctor for that.

























What if you had a normal job?




















- My friend the chemist told me.









































I want my job back.













Please give me my job back.







I don't kill women.

















I've had a lot of women.






































































What about your woman?



My buddy found a job that's gonna bring a promotion.















Did you find the missing kid?



I didn't know you had such a beautiful baby.











"The body of the child was found in the river."















We'll make an exchange later tonight.

8:00 P.M.?























































































He lost his job, and it kills him.





I'm having a baby.



A child? Have you been to the doctor?



You don't want a baby?


I love you, but you don't have to have kids.



Did you see how I'm kidnapping his baby?







I don't care, I'm gonna have a kid who's gonna comfort me.


No, I'll get a job.



























German, darling, but effective.


I want a baby.








I came here because I want a baby.






He's looking for a job.






Remember that woman we ran into at the hospital?
That chatty doctor is gonna tell her everything about us.










Doctor's medicine.






Another doctor said that nothing should be taken.
It's an expensive medicine, so I think you can take it.















Women can often scare you.






Got a job?












































He doesn't have a job.





























You don't care about me or the baby.
You don't want this kid.
Is that true?










Whatever you say or do, I'm still having a baby.


I want to have a baby.

But I still love you, and that's why I want this baby.
He'll grow up to be a good and honest kid.

I've never met a woman like you.




















































Good evening.































Women like toys, had fun and threw away.



She's a good woman.






















We haven't met since we were little kids.






















I want you and the baby.














It's very expensive.
















































































































































The famous puppet theater, the famous doctor of puppet science and the closest friend of Tarabar's King Carabas Barabas!


























































































































































































- Artemon, follow the doctor!






























































Friends of Cat and Lisa are waiting for you there, fun and happiness.








































































































- You're a real friend, Duremar!



































































































































































































It's inhabited by beings that seem reasonable, but they don't know what they want and destroy each other.















What is it, man's best friend, and you're throwing me over my head?












I swear I'm telling the truth!







Even a dead man would have confirmed that I'm telling the truth.



















































Anyway, don't take it like that, let's just have a drink as friends.


































There's room for women.










Animals do human work and humans do animal work.

































































































There's nothing to worry about, we have a friend who takes care of everything.

I don't think I have a bed for your friend...



Here's our friend.










He's not gonna do anything to him, he loves kids.




I'm starting to think the robot is a woman.














































Um, then there'll be kids, some like me, some like you, well, not you, but, uh, you get it. What do you think?


















































































































































I know you'll find children to your taste.


Women.





You're a wonderful woman worthy of becoming Princess of Mars.



You miss the beauty of the women of Mars.



























































































Ruberto, there's a job for you, so you'll stop being a sheriff, and if you can handle it, wait for the judge to be appointed!












He has eagle legs and walks like a lion, really!

























Calm down, we shouldn't fight each other.




































































Laureano, you'll hear incredible things, but it's true.













































It's really him, isn't it?












































































































































That's fantastic, isn't it, Carlo?








And rats, Doctor.










Dr. Lerminier.











Monsieur Tesso is here, Doctor.





























And the woman?










WILL OF THE DOCTOR WOMAN

























Please don't cry, darling.
















































The owners are my friends.


































Tomorrow will be too late, my dear.



















































Edna said that this woman always wears a perlamouth necklace.







All the students, the same age, look alike.













































Sorry, honey.




See you tomorrow, darling.






Tell the truth.



























Calm down, darling.

























You know, Doctor, I'm used to dealing with facts.




A beautiful woman in a pearl necklace that was seen with another girl.



























Then the doctor will take you to the hospital.





You will deliver the note to Dr. Glaze.
He'll give you a referral to Dr. Gencier.









Yes, Doctor.


- Dr. Glaze.










We're friends.






What do you think, Doctor?

Tell me, Doctor.















































What happened, Doctor?












































You're young, Doctor.















































How's it going, darling?














































































































































Yeah, I saw him last night in Montparnas.

























Remember when you knocked on your friend Bob?





















































- Not tomorrow, tonight, Patricia.
























- You're a child...





























We're friends, let's sleep together.


























Did you notice I was following you last night?







You're thinking about last night.

I was furious last night, but now I don't care.





































A woman will never do in eight seconds what you can do in eight days.



There's nothing women can do about it.







































- That's right, darling.


































It's better to tell the truth.





































I went all Monparnas last night.










It's a good idea to have a baby!












Is he gonna be here tonight?

I'm Tony's friend from Marseilles.


























































It's true. I'm scared.










































Fingers are important in a woman.















We look each other in the eye, but why?

















































































How do you feel about Rilke's saying, "The modern world increasingly divides men and women"?



Do French and American women differ in their attitude toward love?
French women don't look like American women at all.
American women dominate men.


Who is more moral - wrong women or men who leave women?
Wrong women.
Is it true that women are more sentimental than men?
Feelings are a luxury that few women can afford.




Does a woman play a role in modern society?

Casanova said that there were no women who could not be seduced by expressions of gratitude.

How many men can a woman love for her life?




For men it's women and for women it's money.





































































A friend who owes you money?







Watch the road!




















































Do you have a work permit?




















































































































































































































You look like women who sleep with everyone except the only man who loves them and explain it by sleeping with everyone.

































































Go there and try to imagine what it was 40,000 years ago when such monsters wandered where expensive cars now drive.













Hello, darling, what happened?














He earns a little more than I do, and he has three kids.






Bye, darling.






































































Dr. Zorba used to be rich.



Dr. Zorba collected ghosts from all over the world.








































































































She worked here for years, and Dr. Zorba paid her well.



















I have a friend who might be able to translate it.















































































I'm gonna go say good night to the kids.











Stupid, isn't it?



Do you really believe there are ghosts here?

























"A professor who's looking for haunted houses to photograph them, Dr. Playto Zorba, a scientist with an impeccable reputation.

Dr. Zorba invented a device by which he could see ghosts, and he's working on a photo method using ultraphyoleth, which will allow him to take pictures of supernatural creatures."


If even part of it is true, even part of it, your uncle knew more about the supernatural than any other person.


Dr. Zorba proved that if you can see a ghost, you can control it. To a certain extent.





















I'm very busy, darling.










Kids?



























She's the worst woman I've ever met.




What if they attack the kids?

















For some reason, it seems to me that our life here, everything that happened to us, is part of the plan that Dr. Zorba wanted us to do something.




You and Ben were his only friends?



















This house isn't a gift, it's true.





















Dr. Zorba died last night.













Ben, it was a beautiful evening.














































He went to work.






















We're friends.





































Before he died, Dr. Zorba hid all his money.

















Let's start tonight.




































































That's the last thing Dr. Zorba wrote.





















Maybe she'll have a session tonight.





















































Your mind shouldn't be busy with anything but wanting to bring Dr. Zorb's spirit into this room.







The doctor and I felt completely united with some spirits.













Besides, as I said, Dr. Zorba no longer trusted me.





















Dr. Zorba...
Dr. Zorba...








Good job, Buck.
Good job.




















































































If some of you still don't believe in ghosts, take these glasses with you, and tonight, when you're alone and it's dark in the room, look across the red strip.














Personally, I often stay at work for an extra hour - another. Especially if it's bad weather.























- Good evening, Mr Baxter.


















































- Good evening, Baxter.









What I hear through the walls, that's what happens every night.

















Friends, do you have dentures?











I'm happy to help your friends, but it's too late.


















What do you say, Friend, huh?























He's gonna freak out, he's gonna get out of work.


































- Really?































































I have to go to bed right after work.








- Only this evening will I be free.








































































Or tonight after work?




























- You know, work's getting better.










Really?

















































Yes, darling.



Wait, honey.









No, don't wait for me, darling.


























































































































- Good evening, Mr. Sheldrake.





































The wife and children are leaving for the village, and the boss is having an affair with the secretary, or the manicurist, or the girl from the elevator.


The kids go back to school, the boss goes back to his wife, and the girl...
























































Jeff, darling.



















Teamwork: Here's what's appreciated in our organization.











We don't mind, but you don't spend every night with her!














Your friends recommended you.























- I found this when I got back last night.
























































- I don't have to drink at work.























































- Really?





So, if you're not embarrassed to walk with me, why don't we go out tonight? You, me and the pot?






I have friends in HR.







































































"It was a Christmas evening, and in the house, in everything...








On a night like this, it's scary to go to an empty apartment alone.











The kids are on vacation, and my mother-in-law's here right now.







































Our friend from the Chinese restaurant.



























































































Dr. Dreyfus.


























































Fran, I'm a doctor.


Fran, I'm Dr. Dreyfus.





And I'm a doctor.
- Doctor?
- Dr. Dreyfus.




Doctor...






























Really, Doc?






















These cases are heavier for the doctor than for the patient.















- Really?

Would you please forget that you're a doctor and imagine that you're here as a neighbor?
Well, as a doctor, I can't prove it wasn't an accident.






















What was going on last night?
- Last night?






- And I'm sure you woke Dr. Dreyfus.
































I found her here last night.



















You see, the doctor is a friend of mine, so we're lucky in this respect.





















































The doctor has no secrets from me.
















Let's say she asks you why you didn't come home last night.


































Remember yesterday's doctor?



























































































































- Like a woman to a woman.



































































































































































































The doctor said it would take 48 hours for your body to clean up.






- Really?




That was my best friend's wife.

























He has four children and an extra 10 kilos.




























None of them went to work today.








































I spent one night with Mae West.













































What's your profile, Doctor?














Goodbye, Doctor.



















































































Good evening, Mr Baxter.






























You see, I... actually, I have a serious date tonight.










Here are the staffing schedules. 37% of women quit to get married and 22%...








































- Just following the doctor's advice.






























I didn't do it as a doctor.























Throwing this good, cash work right in my face.



























The other neighbors, the other town, the other job.


























































































You shouldn't worry so much, woman.








































































Tell me the truth, are you a pirate or some kind of smuggler?



We're friends, aren't we?






























































































But of course! You think I'm a bad father like the ones who leave their own children?





They must have become friends, just like you and I, so they're not alone.







Your clothes make it look like it's for the baby.



















I have a friend! Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,






















































































































































And this is my friend.
































































Give them a picture later where all matadors communicate in the evening.

















































But it's true that you're just like my Virgin from MacAren. So you should know why I'm here by now.

I'm asking you because you're the mother of such things. And you say you're the mother of everything. And since it's true that my Virgin is in Spain and can't hear me, I'm asking you to help me find my father.

















































Gentlemen, think! It could be a sensational report. The child travels across the Atlantic Ocean to find his father.





I think with this coming, tonight the whole of Mexico will know about your arrival.

I have children of your height at home, too. They're waiting for you.

Come on, kids, stop fooling around. Come on, let's go.





These kids are so wild!

No, I'm not! That would be a little boring. Maybe he already has children and doesn't want others.





















Is this all true?












































Good luck, and don't forget that my agency has taken on the baby's responsibility and happiness.













No, he doesn't have six kids, he doesn't have a wife, he doesn't even have a home.

And you thought it was his kids who didn't let us use the money.




































Grow up, my dears.











'Cause you're still a kid.
















It's really true... that pepper is the most acute in the world.








- Goodbye, darling.














- Because it's true.

after 30 years I haven't told anyone the truth, at least tell my daughter.
Do you have any other truth for me?






Bye, darling.












It's flour to be far away from each other.
Really.


















































Mario, woman overboard!





















































































- You're a little disappointed, tell me the truth.






I prefer spoiled. Unless you love kids.


To think that if there is a woman, created, directly designed for all kinds of lies, betrayal, depravity, depravity... that's her. So what?










On the sea, on the baby, on the cat.






















Or are you convinced we won't understand each other?





















Please, dear Julia, don't be so educational all the time.


















What a beautiful island! Really?

























































































Sorry about last night.


























































































I hear you're in trouble in the family. Is that true?












They're starting to contradict each other.




































































































































































Woman!







































After you pass 50, my dear, you only feel cold.



























































But why only women?
No landscape is as beautiful as a woman.




It's weird how women try to show themselves.















































































Beautiful girl, really.






























































It can't be true.










I've never seen a woman like you, for whom everything must be clear.










Back to work on the projects.



















































































No, really...













































- Good evening.
- Good evening. - Good evening.




































































I never slept, and I had friends who slept even less.


Or how the sheep are chased. And also running to the market... or waking up other friends or girls, calling them under the windows.




























- Come on, I'll introduce you to my friends.








































Honey...

























I know that Sicilian women cry on their wedding night.


















But the doctors say she'll live another 100 years.




A woman ran away from him last Sunday.

































They say he paid two liras to see a naked woman, and only left after that.































- And your friend the minister?





- It's none of my business whether it's true or not.




I swear it's true.




If he's talking, then it's true...





















































All the dancers are from Catania, and his friends are using it.

- Good evening.








He has a lot of friends.


All the women are crazy about him.




- Is it true what they say about you?

- That women like you.


- No one's gonna confuse you with a woman.
















No, dear Antonio, I don't think the lawyer can...

Counselor, is it true that you...?





























You'll have all the women you want.













- Is it true that the Romans were chasing you?



And that women throw themselves at you like cats.











He never understood that women despised us all but you.


- She said she'd give 10 years of her life in the night with my friend the secretary.






Tell him to find me a job.
I need a job, I'm not a boy anymore.











Your son smells like a woman.








Let me kiss you, darling.

























- It's true! Really!






Excuse me, my friend, we'll talk... we'll...




- What are you doing to women?



And I like women, too...







From us, Maniano, women literally melt, when you touch them.




















- I was in Rome talking to my friends.




- I'm asking your son to write it to his friend, the minister.
They're friends, aren't they?








- Good evening.
- Good evening, Barbara.


- You're both so beautiful. You and Antonio will have beautiful children.
Isn't that right, Padre?
- Good evening, Signor Alfio. How are you?










































Write to your friend to the minister today.



If it wasn't for me, he would have said he wasn't a friend of the minister.








































- Tell your friends to leave me alone.
























- God knows how many women you had in Rome.




There is no such relationship between husband and wife, between mother and son, between brother and sister, between friends, wherever God is present.


A wife must obey her husband, like the Lord. Because a man is the master of a woman, and the Lord is the master of a church.




































And you, signora, how many children do you want?




















- The baby.
- No, we decided not to have children.
- Don't have kids?


God wants a husband and wife to have children.
- How do kids do, Francesca?

With a husband like yours, you ask me how children are made?
































And there's less work.












- Really? Are you telling the truth, Barbara?

























My son married a woman he likes, and it's only natural that he prefers to love whenever he wants.

























- That things aren't okay between our kids.
- Dear notary, I was going to call you for the same reason.


You know that in Catania everyone interferes in each other's affairs.



In my opinion, parents should not interfere in children's affairs.









































Because I slept with nine women in one night!



















But my son and your daughter, dear notary, have the same interests.














- My dear notary, how disgusting you are.
























































































- Barbara's a smart woman, she'll take care of it.





Tell me the truth, Barbara.














































- Honey, it's not your fault.

My dear Antonio. Beautiful as the sun.













Barbara's the same as other women?

All women are created in the same way.


You didn't do it on purpose, did you?
















Tonight, you, with me and Antonio, should visit a woman.
A woman, yes.












































- Anything a married woman should know.









We're both married women, and you're also a little girl.








You can stand, sit, lie, foot, or head, but you won't leave until you tell me the truth.












































- Listen, darling, be a good Christian and parent.































And when my son in Rome or I in other places practiced "one flesh and blood" with other women? Why are confessionaries so annoyed?

You practice "one flesh and blood" with other people's women.












Good evening.































You're gonna do me a big favor, you can get the truth out of him.









All friends say that.


























When I left Catania, dear Antonio, I lost everything.




At least everyone here knows each other.









- Never with a woman I like. Never with a woman I really love.












At this very time, I fell in love, but with every woman, I was like an idiot.


All the women were crazy about you...







I was young, women wanted me, and from time to time I could make them happy.

But one day I met a woman...





I met her at her friends' house in Rome.



- I spent the whole evening with one of these women in this house...



And even though I spent the whole day with married women, I wanted to do it again...











- I turned off the lights and we hugged each other.



And no woman I've ever loved.












Eduardo, you know, tell me the truth.











































I want everyone to know! Alfio Maniano still visits women at the age of 60!

Good evening, Signor Alfio.





Let the whole of Catania know that Alfio Maniano visits women at the age of 60.














Many of the husband-in-law have children from Alfio Maniano.















































































- Antonio! Is that true?



Really!










Santuzza, bring me the glasses, darling.



































Murderer, you're gonna pay for this crime for my friend's death.



- Who are you? - Beatrice de Beaufort. Your friend's cousin, the Marquis de Teinaka.




























Hurry up, ladies and gentlemen. Hurry up, children.















































































I understand this lady. But maybe she'll let you become a companion and a friend of the poor knight.


All the better, so there's less work.












It takes imagination to seduce a woman, but shooting a gun wasn't a joke.



































































Be my friend.


You will have many friends, and very soon you will be accepted as conspirators.








That masked coward who has a wooden sword and who isn't even afraid of children.














































































Really, I was surprised by your fencing style.


































And they're trying to draw him away from some of his friends.




























We'll always understand each other.

To sing to each other what we love.

We'll always understand each other.


It means, darling, how beautiful you are.







We'll always understand each other.

To talk about love, you don't need long speeches. We'll always understand each other.
♪ Hand in hand ♪ ♪ We'll go one way ♪ ♪ and talk about love ♪
Let's go one way and talk about love.





























































I'm giving a show tonight.













You'll be accompanied by a friend.














They were bad people. And enemies of my friends.







I told you, he's the king's best friend.

And since our friends' friends are our friends, so am I.






















It's a pleasure to introduce my friend Chevalier de Capestan.








































































































But if you agree to meet me tonight, your father will be restored to his rights and his entire estate will be returned to him.










I betrayed my friends to save my father.










It's not good to eavesdropping under a friend's door.































- Why do you care about us? - I warned you. I will fight on your side to save my dear creature.



















































































































And if she really knew her, she'd be very worried.





























Look, I thought these kids would steal flowers when we left.



































































Look... since I'm going out of town with my friends, I need money.





















I'm going on a tour with my friends.




I'm sorry, but I had to drive my friend.










































- It's true. - There isn't a drop left.



























































I think it's brown 'cause black, for the baby...
Can you accept us? You see, Doctor, I...





















My job is like that of a priest.





















































































































Because Don Vicente is inviting you with great pleasure, isn't he?






















- It's delicious. - See, he's like a kid.











- Good evening. He's the boss here.






- Like a baby. - Poor man.

But not in the war, or I'll take you to the doctor to give him a shot.








Of course, madam. It's such a beautiful evening.


Our dear lady Marquis.












- Very. - It's delicious, isn't it?









- He's like a kid.



Now, push all night.


- Yeah, what's gonna be okay? - Look what a lovely evening it is.




















The doctor says that if I use the stroller, I'll get over it.

So the doctor said that if you buy a stroller, you're gonna get through all these doctors, you don't understand anything.




















Dear Don Anselmo, I tell you, put your hand on your heart.




























- I've been working for 40 years and it's always the same patient who thinks he knows better than a doctor.





- Excuse me, Doctor, if you'll excuse me...











Old people like children.























































That's too much for that. Priceless, rough work



Please, it's German gold, rough work.
























































































I have real friends who won't leave me and don't tell me about it anymore, I can't hear about it anymore.



I have friends who can lend me money.







One week, Don Ilario No, until tonight. I'm sick of all this.
































A little, but I've been working my whole life, and I really want to get some rest now.




And besides, he's your friend.

We'll call a doctor tonight.











For God's sake, Lucas, this evening. It's gonna be late tomorrow.








I wanted to go with my mom tonight to buy myself a suit.







- Speak quietly if you don't come tonight, you lose your rights to the wheelchair.



























































































































































































Not in the mornings, not in the evenings.



















You're coming to my house tonight.
The papers also say, "Ma'am's been spending the evening there..."







I'll light a lamp tonight.










Go your own way!

































































































































- Just say it again. - I'm telling the truth.






















































- Really?




































































































Children must understand the difference.



































If there's one zero, it's not a number, it's the next zero. That's all.
































Aren't you ashamed to say that in front of the kids?
Kids come here to study. - Yeah, we all know that, too.


















Ryabinnick is worth two francs more than a jerk. But they have different tastes.



















You don't have to look at size, you have to look at work experience.





































































Really?




































































It's kind of silly, isn't it?

























































Instead of buying 10,000 bikes, let your friend buy 10,000 orphans.











I'm afraid your friend can't be helped.























- Really?
Really.








Then we'd just love each other.


My friend is fabulously rich. He's got billions.




My friend doesn't know what to do with the money. He's got billions.



























It wasn't me who invited you, it was my friend.


































































































I have a friend in Overney.

A very close friend from Overney.























Such friends are rare.
And for some reason, it was Jules who got a rich friend.

I don't have any friends in the government.
You have a rich friend.

















































































































































































The two of us, really.




Really?






- Have you come to see your friends? - Nope.

















There's nothing suspicious about that, is there?


A friend gave it to me.
We don't believe in the existence of such friends.

We don't believe in the existence of friends from Overney either. Religion is forbidden.





















































































































So this story started on November night.


























- Finally... I hope he found a doctor.
Great, we all like to play doctor and nurse.



- Good evening.










- Whose? - You're late, Doctor.












So, what am I supposed to tell her guardian, Doctor?

How much do we owe you, Doctor?































- Good evening, Countess.
- Good evening.
- Good evening.

- Good evening, everyone!

- Good evening, Tammoro.
- Good evening. Well, at least we went undetected.

"We saw the Countess with the new doctor at night..."






Tonight, I have to study. My specialty is biology.












But you've seen their children before.



"Do you see this tall, thin woman drinking gin and tonic?"

- Good evening, Commander.
- Good evening.
- Good evening, Countess.
- Good evening, Ridolfi.





Let's finish first lesson! Good evening, everyone!

- Good evening.












What did the doctor do all day?







































Even though they were smaller and fewer, they were more sophisticated than the ones that went through Kera's house. These evenings were considered an event.


That night, the party was in honor of the theater troupe that played "The Daughter of Irio."



- Come on, darling.



Where are the kids?















And the doctor?






Indeed, Kere invited her new friend, young doctor and girlfriend Fedora, who was with him, bothering them to death.


















Tell me, darling, why would you bring these people to our house?


Don't you think so, Doctor?









I thought you were gonna fight him like a kid.
With the doctor?



Doctor's a serious man, bear in mind, maybe he's planning to marry her.
How much will you bet if she comes with me tonight?


- Why more? Because the doctor will be free.
























Remember, we're actors who always play! Why couldn't they play well tonight?



We need to be careful. These little urban kids are so advanced.



























Is that you, Doctor?

































Doctor, leave the door open, please.
































- Thank you. Drink slowly, it's a little stronger than anise, really.
















Doctor!








Why, Doctor? Are you sick?
















See you later, Doctor.


















No, Kere, you look beautiful, don't you?









Stupid bet, stupid night.













We learned that during that period, later in mid-February, Kere had a romantic relationship with a young doctor who was left by Fedora.

When I was a kid, I spent hours in this room. My parents were very far away.
Were you a sad or funny kid?




It was a weird night, wasn't it?









You were waiting for something, weren't you?










- You're happy, aren't you?







What, you've never seen a naked woman?
You're not a woman, you're my sister!



















































- Come on, let's go. Don't act like a child.




The important thing is that they're good together, they love each other.
Yeah, and you're getting married to Ridolfi for love, aren't you?



































Do you know that when we get home, you have to do a big job?




















You were different, and I thought that you were... a woman who was never like them, who had only money in their head! Yes, yes!

















You say we're kids and we don't have a commitment.










Also, I'd tell you the truth. I haven't decided who else I love more: you or Ferrari.















- All your women are like this?















Who has the courage now to marry you and put up with your friends' jokes, gossip at the cafe? Everyone's gonna be against you.





















Anselmo, we never understood each other.










15 years of sweat, hard work!
You don't even know the word "work"! - And the words "the theft."





My classmates and friends don't know and say nothing?
Tell me, Dad, what would you do when you came back from Germany like your Jewish friend who gave you everything? What would you be today?






I imagine her morning awakenings or long, empty days or evenings on the city streets.

- Good evening. - Good evening, Signorina.














































No, the truth is, Kera, you need to be strong, very brave.






















































Anselmo, you're all right, aren't you?








I don't even remember the day Elsa told me that Fedora was expecting Alberto's baby.








































I'll tell him tonight.







Mom, there's a lot of ways to get rid of the baby, right?









It's all right, isn't it, Mom?











It all came about thanks to the work and favor of the Holy Spirit.
If we were gonna be together... you could easily tell us about the baby yourself...


































- Marina, darling!


You don't remember the doctor, your savior...
The famous doctor!



















I see the doctor here.













It's big news tonight.














Anselmo... "Goodbye, my dear, goodbye..."


Kera always has great ideas, doesn't she?

























































Dr. Corcy!














































































I'm not what I used to be. I don't have the strength anymore, I don't see the difference... between truth and untruth!

















































Maybe my father was right... we were kids, and now we're growing up.

































Good evening.





















Good evening, Madelaine.



It's rarely a bad night.








It's the same thing every night. Don't they get bored?


They're at work, they're preparing a social chronicle.
Have a good evening!



























- Good evening.
- Good evening. Who are you talking to?












































Have you ever been intimate with a woman like that?


























One evening, a gentleman...









































Did you bring the woman who was poisoned?
























It's good, isn't it?






Is it true that you take an ice bath every morning?






































You appeared on the day of the creation of the world. You're the first woman of the first day of life on earth.











Hello, darling!


























Calm down, darling.















- Amazing woman. Goodbye.


















































What are you doing tonight? I'll pick you up at 8:00.
I don't care about that, honey, I'm working.









How was the work on the book?
















My friend's with me.
























Where are the kids who saw Madonna?




Where are those kids?








- Signora, where are the children?










- What's your children's name?










The children were wrong, because those who saw Madonna... changed their face, looked brightly.




















He's a journalist, and he came here for a job.













Thank you, I'll see you tonight.









The sky is pure and starry. At these moments, the children are still at the police station. And no orders have yet been received from Rome.
We met an uncle of the children.
He kindly agreed to answer a few questions. When did the children first see a miracle?


Thank you. They'll be bringing the kids in soon, calling from Rome.






I'm with you. No, darling, it's not necessary.










Turn the searchlight around. As soon as the kids get to the tree, you're gonna start filming.










The children rise from their knees, but they run in the opposite direction.














Good evening, I'm Steiner's wife.

- Good evening, Marcello.
- Good evening.














I claim that the true woman is an eastern woman.





Honey, don't be angry, but I made a mistake.
A mysterious and passionate Eastern woman... resembles a little tiger.








Let me introduce you to my friend, I've told you about him.
Good evening.

I'm in line with your thoughts on women. The Eastern woman has preserved naturality... because she has lived in unity with nature for centuries. And we have to win nature from civilization.







And I don't mind traveling, meeting women of different races. It must be fun to have children of different colours:







What a lovely creature-- your friend's fiancée, a real Souther!














Then I had doubts that they were written by a woman.
What do you know about women?








Friends, you're thinking too much about the future.























Do you really want to hear it?



























The child's view of the world is poetic, isn't it?












You're spirited, you have extraordinary friends.







Marcello, I'm just a friend of yours... and I'm probably not in the right position to advise on anything at all.
But if you want to change your way of life, meet the publisher... get him to order a literary job... do your favourite job.






I'm worried about the future of my children.



























































I wanted to leave already, but your friend told me to wait here.

I'm spinning like a freak from morning to evening, only at home at night.




















So much fun every night?




How's work going?




By the way, every time I called your house... some woman answered me.




You talked to a woman who sometimes cleans me up.
Good evening. Did you meet him at last?





It's a great job. In a sense, it's a great art.






There's a job here too.






Come on, son, I go to the movies every night.





By the way, there was a friend of mine here the other day, and he said,






Oh, and invite your friend, too, I'm buying.




















































































Are you really his father? Why don't you believe it?










I really want to cry.















One lady sent her husband to the store... and told him to buy two shirts, six handkerchiefs... and this thing that women wear.































I like him. - Really?
















Dad, what's the matter? Do you really want to go to her spaghetti?


































My friend ran to the pharmacy.




















































Yeah, well done! Everything he says is true.












Do you have room for my friend?



Oliviero, this is my friend.












Good evening, everyone!


Good evening, my dear!

Good evening.
































































































- Is that true?
- Yeah, really.







You're an amazing, rare woman, I know you.







Hi, honey, we're going after ghosts.
























































































































They're happy when they meet a loving woman... and they don't chase every skirt.




















A woman who loves you and is willing to sacrifice everything for you.

Marcello, when two people love each other, everything else doesn't matter anymore.





It's not love, it's a primitive animal addiction to each other!























He killed two children, and then he shot himself.
Be a friend, take me with you!



- I'm his friend.
Mr. Sergeant, there's a guy here who says... he was a friend of Steiner's.












Are you a friend of Signor Steiner's?
Yeah, I'm his friend.
Were you a close friend of his?














Doctor, are you done?


Doctor, I'm going to meet Signora, quarter-one.

























My children!
You'll see the kids later. We're gonna go, we're gonna talk.

Kids just got hurt.








Divorce gave me back my friends and a thousand wishes. He gave me a blissful sense of freedom.














































































Don't you care about women?



















































Come on, darling, calm down, I want to entertain you, too.







I'd like to thank all my friends for... helping me make a brilliant career.




























I started melancholy last night.

I had a pimple last night.




























And last night was a great night.




























Doctor, I know you well.





























We have guests tonight.


















Good evening.
Dr. Valerie.



Good evening.




















I need a few men for earthworks.














































































The day Leopoldo has a child, the land...






















Tonight, Carmila, I'm asking you to get dressed and go downstairs.























She just came to hug me this evening.


Do you really want to be alone?
















Who's the ginger tall girl the doctor hasn't left all night?

I think our doctor has perverted tendencies.









She looks like a baby in her dream.







I'm very cold tonight.



































































































Good evening.



























































































Good evening, Mademoiselle.


Good evening, Mademoiselle.









That melody's been in my head all night.
Didn't Carmilla play her the night before the ball?
















































I'm learning the real Leopoldo again tonight.
































Doctor, what did you find?





Doctor, have you seen these marks?












He only kills women?




Is it true that animals are afraid of them? Yes.

















There was something white on it. Was it a man or a woman?
More like a woman.


If it was a woman, she wore a dress.



















Women can count wrinkles.



























My dear Chairman.






Carmilla is our last night here.


We have to go back to Venice tomorrow night.










I killed her the night I went to prom.








Georgia, my dear, what happened?




























I thought in time she'd realize that we couldn't be the children of her dreams forever.






She identified herself with the woman you love.












Honey.













































She's the only child I left behind.

















You're acting like a kid.


















































I've seen women and churches.























- Does the baby hurt you?

















I asked him to help you and your baby.










Don't yell like that, you can hurt the baby.



















It's been a long time since a woman sat next to me.






















































We'll look for work in the south.























I may be able to give you a job.



























If Karin doesn't come home tonight, she'll probably be home tomorrow.















It's expensive for us, but we have no choice but to offer it for sale.

It's a bit worn and stained, but embroidery is the work of nine girls.

I have to ask my husband what the appropriate price should be for such an expensive thing.


































The death of an innocent child and my revenge.






I promise you, Lord, besides the body of my child, I promise you in punishment for my sin I will build a church.
























You know I don't like being distracted when I'm working.

























Doctor, I didn't know you were taking someone.








Seeing old women always gives me the creeps, but remember, we're gonna need millions before I find a way to rejuvenate them.






















































































































It was held by a woman whose age is twice the average age of human life.

























Honey, don't think about it now.












Doctor, it's a lot of money, but I'm afraid there's nothing I can do for you.




It can only mean one thing, Doctor, a legend that they can slow down aging.
Dr. Talbot, of course I'd love to get that kind of money, but I can't help you find something that doesn't exist.



Doctor, now you have a guide.






















































































































Dr. Talbot, here we are again.




















I came here to die, Dr Talbot, but before the old Nandu women die, they get their last chance to be young again. They get a few days of happiness and love before they turn into dust.




Tonight, you, your wife and guide will be dedicated to the secret of the Nandu tribe.

You are white men, and you, white woman, will witness what no one has ever seen before except the Nandu people.


And for old women, it's nothing.


What kind of woman, when she's old, isn't ready to do anything just for a few minutes not to return her young years, this joy, beauty, and the adoring of men?

So old Nandu women want to enjoy their beauty and love for the last time before they die.




It's a different woman.


She can't be that woman.





















Honey. Garvey and I, we'll be back tomorrow, because now we know exactly where they are.













Dear gold necklace. You asked me to hide it in a private place.























































































She was crazy about her doctor, and he did such a terrible thing to her.





































































































Look, her aunt is my client and just a good friend.
















Shocking, isn't it? That's what three months of nightmares can do to a woman.



























Tonight, I hope so.












































He understood the feelings of an old woman very well.


Especially since you're wearing such precious jewels.






Well, you know, I had to stay a little longer at work.

Must be a very important job.















Everything's ready for a beautiful evening, isn't it?





































Let's just enjoy each other while we're at it.







She's out with her friend.

















It's incredible that a woman with a house like this could have messed up with a guy like Jerry Lando.



























According to witnesses, your aunt was wearing a big diamond necklace tonight.



































































He's gonna keep asking me tonight, and I'm gonna have to sing it.





























- And the baby?

































I go out with a kid every day.











You know, since last night, since that piano class, I've been thinking more and more about it,





I want to give the kids so much that you don't even know how to do it, where to start.
Do you have children, monsieur?












































You know, the hardest thing for a woman is to find an excuse to go to a cafe.








Yeah, when I gave birth to this baby.







He walked by her house every day when he went to work.




It must be said that it was a woman who often looked at men in the morning, men who went to work in the arsenal.

And she realized that she's been bored for a long time, that she's been looking at other men, while other women in the city still slept.

You see, she lived in a house with a huge garden surrounded by an iron fence, and sometimes in the evening, especially at this time of year, when her husband and child were sleeping,


It was a woman who didn't sleep very well.
The neighborhood she lived in is very quiet, especially in the evenings.



Her habit of going out in the garden tonight?



And one night he saw her in this garden.













































My dear.


















































He's been giving up his job lately.































































Funny... kids end up making you angry.

It's true.























Is it true that no one knows?











- Yeah, really.




















But there's a reception at my house tonight.





It's such a beautiful evening!







- It's true.

























Beach, what a joy it is for children!







I'm sorry, but I have to see Madame Debared tonight.






















We couldn't love each other.








One day you're gonna talk to some kid or something, just like that.




























There's a lot of work and housing here!























































There's no office.


















Are you sure you're good for this job?





































Isn't she strong?






















































































































































































- You never told me that. - Really?

















Julie's having a baby.












- I'm going to work.

- I'll be back from work.




























































































Really?


I'd rather change my job.














You can't say that to a woman...




























































I have a wife and kids.






































Sam, honey!









You're 17, hold yourself down until you find a real woman.






































































































































I didn't have that with women.

































I'm a friend of Sam's.




















A friend of George's.




































Is it true about the mine?




Women!
I've never met a woman half faithful like a horse.

















But we're good doctors, right, girls? George Pratt's heart is torn in half because of the lady in the lace apron. Not mine.
I'll be your doctor.

I should have known you wouldn't let a woman break your heart.





































Any woman who makes one man miserable instead of making many happy won't get my vote.






































I'm saving a man, my best friend.






















Where else am I gonna hang out looking for an old friend of McCord's?













































Who is this woman?


This is my friend.

- She's not a friend, I know!

I want you to meet my friend Angel. Come on.


This is my old friend Lena Nordquist.











So my friend and I say, "Goodbye, sorry not to sit on your filthy grass."





But there's nothing you can do, no decent woman will look at you.












































Isn't that a friend of yours? Yes.


































You did well with an old friend.






















































I'll help you, darling. - Thank you, Lena.


























Wait, honey.
























I wouldn't hurt a child like you.












Women.







Good evening.

























I'd be very happy to make your friend happy if I could. No! No!

















Your friend George will be unhappy if I fall in love with you, and who knows, maybe, and you too, if I fall in love with someone like George.








































































George gave me a job, I got a couple of carts to take it all to the mine.












































As your friend, she's the guest of this house.





































































You know what love does to a woman?
















I never drink at work!


































































































































































































Let's see how the evening goes.
















All I have to do is find a woman.







From Fortimil to Dawson, I knew women from one glacier to another.




You'll meet your woman.
You know. I think a man needs an older woman.











I want you to be more than just a friend.































































You and I are old friends...



But I couldn't lie to a friend! - A friend?

Yeah, you're a friend.







































- No, I told you the truth.









































- Friend.





















- He's telling the truth, Mr. Pratt.


































































Hey, Sam, friend!



















- Beautiful. Really?

















Maybe it's true about the Chickenhouse, but Angel isn't like the others.













































Well, you know. Sam and the women...












They're too expensive, too beautiful and...




















































All women are liars. And if you don't, even worse, they're making you wedding music.




Women can't be trusted no matter how honest they seem.
































































































































































I'll get a job.

















































I'm taking the ship back to Seattle tonight.





























Really?

















































































































We found your friend.

















































































WHEN A WOMAN STANDS IN FORESTRY



















No, that's not how you do it, friends.











Marriage is what every woman wants.

























































































When the girls from the offices go home, our work just starts.




















































- Good evening...






You know, you have a good job.





Really?





Really, Mama?








Really?


All the folding places look like each other, they're bored.








You know, Mr. Inagaki came last night.











































































































Is it true that she abandoned Mr. Minobe?
























Look, is it true that Mom doesn't have a personal client?


She's a woman.











You seem to have put on a little weight, don't you?



Yeah, it's true.



Really?



















Really, Mama.















Please give my friends another drink.



Between eleven and six-and-twelfth... about 16,000 women from Tokyo bars are returning home.

Category two women drive in a tram.












- Good evening.
- Good evening.































But alas, for us, the women of Guinds, it's a necessity.
Same as the use of expensive clothes and perfume.


























But in our work, we have to communicate with everyone like a lover.




Let's not talk about work.































- Mom, tell me, it's true...

















I think a woman will lose her charm if she starts having fun with men.








A real woman shouldn't be too careless.






















































It was about women like Mama.






















It's an important age for a woman.










































































































I'm so sorry, really. But it was the only way to support my bar.









That's a good idea, isn't it?







Sleeping pills will do, won't they?













Really?


For women working in this quarter, life is a constant struggle.




























Honey?














































As for me, I could lose my job.











What's to say about a woman...




























Doesn't it have anything to do with your job?










Work helps me forget.








Good evening.








It's too bad, Yuri, isn't it?















It's your job.

















If you don't like doing this, take that kimono off and look for another job!








































It's a very expensive gift.


And this baby downstairs is his?


Really? Such a cute face.





























Really.



Mom's not that kind of woman.


































































































That's why we need expensive apartments, cars... and perfume, everything to make things work.




She'd go to an expensive hospital.

















I hate this job from day one.



If you know, tell me and I'll leave this job!






































I'm going to work next week.






















No, it's true.




























































Dr. Murata said that if we did the surgery now, Yoshio could start walking... before school starts.
















This time it's true.







































She predicted that, didn't she?
She's good, isn't she?







You and I are no longer strangers.
It's true.













Really?




Really, the bathroom's gonna be in common. But it doesn't bother me.















I'm ashamed to say this... but my husband always had problems with women.




He forgot his notebook at home, and I called all the women in it.




You're such a beautiful woman.

Really?




Good evening.





Imagine us to each other.



















Or don't you want a woman like me?


Fujisaki... I heard you had a lot of women.

Women like your type.































Even when a woman is in a man's hug, it's impossible to tell who she's thinking about.












































































Good manager, isn't it?

She turned out to be true, so I swore not to touch you.


That's bad, isn't it?













We know each other too well.



You're really in love with Fujisaki, aren't you?






















Here's something for the kids.













Hello, good evening.


Hello, good evening.
















- Shocking, isn't it?















I was told by a friend that you sell certain pictures.









- Take it yourself, my dear.





























- He's obviously not gonna solve crossword puzzles tonight.





Did you read about this girl who was murdered last night?




















































Happy birthday, dear Helen.









Hello. I don't know how many times we've been past each other on the stairs, but I definitely decided to say hello to you tonight, so hello.

I'm having a party, some other tenants and some friends.







Excuse me, but... work.









I don't have to get you out of work.














































































If you work here, I can't wait to see your work.














You can show it to your own child...
































































He wanted to make a movie like a child growing up, every detail, if that was possible.







Especially child fear and how children react.



- A scientist who lets a lizard into a baby's bed for good?







Work.
























And, darling, this time, could you make an effort and forget how stunning you are and just try to look stunned?





No, no, no, honey.































You're beautiful, darling.



I have a meeting tonight.









Sergeant, who's working late tonight?










































































































































And that, darling, is all the news.

























































- Mark, that's nice of you, really.

























I'm writing short stories for kids like Grimm did, Anderson, Carroll.














The children, having read the book, will want to see the pictures that this camera took, but the publisher says it's impossible to take pictures, and they offer pictures.



















- Are you free tomorrow night?

















Now you understand, darling, don't you?


- And asked... I'm sorry, darling...




















































































































































The doctor has finished his examination, he wants to see you.




- Good job.

What time did you come home last night, Mr. Lewis?

















Both women were greatly shocked.






















The studio representative said that her work in the film was so promising... that they were going to write a part for her."


- Yes, darling." Sir Love... "

- I'll ask him tonight.










- Now, darling.













Honey, this is Mark.































Bye, darling. - Good night.







Do you need her tonight?

If that's the case, why don't I take my job with me?










- Really, Mark?













- It's very nice there for Christmas. - Really?









It belongs to a little boy, and she sees adults as they were children.





There's no face in the crowd that looks like a child.






- Mark... it was a great night.

It was a beautiful evening.













Thanks again for tonight.

I have some work to do.



- Good evening, Mark.






































































And until you do, I don't want you and Helen to see each other.






























Now, darling, calm down, I know you'll be perfect.




Of course, darling.






Now, darling, be brave.






- Calm down, darling, and relax.




























































Okay, Doctor.



































This afternoon after work...



























You've ruined my whole evening,















- I didn't meet my friend... come here and undress for you to take off the street.


















































































































































































































































































What's up, darling?














































Sweetheart Marge, darling.


Sweetheart Marge, darling.














To my regret, dear Tom, I have to admit that your mission failed and ended.





































Last night, I slept with your dad for a telegram about us coming.
























































He's not my childhood friend at all.

























































































































Marge, my dear Marge, darling, this evil gentleman will never be able to separate us.




















































































































Dear Marge...











































































I always say, change the curtains, it's like changing the apartment. Really?



- It's beautiful, isn't it?









Dear Marge, ever since we broke up, I've hesitated...
























Is it true that he threw her manuscript into the sea?


































































































Yeah, it was Philip's friend.



Mr. Philippe Greenleaf... your friend?








































You dance, you dance, you dance, honey.


Honey, don't walk on the edge, it's dangerous.









- You didn't? - Yeah, honey.


Knowing that, darling, you can't imagine how excited I am.



Isn't that right? He doesn't even know they're looking for him, that he's a suspect.

































Dear Mother, I'm going out of my life voluntarily.
























































































Honey...






















































































- Yes, darling.

- What, honey? - Let the railway manager know.


- Yes, darling.













Is that Jenny Harrington's baby?






Most children, orphans, go to the orphanage.





Kids don't even understand...






Here, in the back seat, darling.










































































- Are you sure it was Dr. Chilton?
































I have a lot of work to do.










































Really. Really.













































































How are you, darling?
















- Really?



Oh, no, really!
I really love him.
















Excuse me. Thank God the kids weren't hurt.





Oh, Dr. Chilton.



- Yes, Doctor.











































- Isn't that young Dr. Chilton?


























































Even my nephew, Dr. Chilton, drew attention to that.




I went to the clinic when I was doing Mr. Giri's hand... and I noticed she wasn't enough for 32 kids.




It'll cost more to repair this building than to build a new one.




















Carl's in his repertoire, isn't he?





























You could say they were... friends.


She means Dr. Chilton.

































Unrequited souls of human children are sadly mistaken for false confidence in their own power and wisdom.















































My dear, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, they all wrote with flaming feathers.

























- It's true.











What a baby.






































































He hates kids.







































You can't hear me. I want the kids to understand - I don't want to see anyone here!

















They know everything... about the children you kidnap and keep in slavery.
- The kids deserve it.


























I don't think there are any children in your basement.







You're just a kid.
































Children...
Well, the kids are gone.























I'll have an evening to celebrate your return.


You know Nell already has eight kids?





I thought it would be nice for you to see some old friends.












Tell me about your job, Edmond.





She's too young for so many kids, that's all.





















What were you and Dr. Chilton talking about?







Yeah? Okay... get ready for dinner, darling.



Don't be silly, Pollyanna. It's a duty and it's a responsible job.


- Charity baskets, darling.











Hurry up, darling.




But don't think it's charity... it's just a gift from friends.
- Friends?

- Your friend.



- It's true.







































Stop that noise! No respect for a dying woman.






















































" Turn your ears and walk your way!"


















































It's true!








Charlie Gorman, eight men for carpentry.








- Hey, honey.
















Can the kids come, George?








A week later, Sunday night.










































Children. They're gonna freak out.



































































































You'll see. - It's true.































































Why are you kidding a poor dying woman with these stupid childhood stories?




















And this kid! Your niece! And she's helping them!








Let's get to work!

























Tell me the truth.








































Dr. Chilton's leaving.
















This woman has no feelings at all.






- Hey, honey.












It's all in one woman's hands.



- But not the church. - It's true.





















- Hello, darling.





Thank you. - Beautiful day, isn't it?








If you are enemies of one another, then you are enemies of God.

































































Honey, is everything okay?















I look at you now, not as my congregation, but as ordinary people, and I say to myself, how sorry I've lost these four years. Four years in which we could be friends.











There's a charity bazaar tonight.
















Pollyanna's too small to walk alone at night.




































And this is for you, my dear.














- Here you go, my dear.












Good evening, Mrs Snow.






Beautiful handmade braid blanket.

















Good evening.







































































Angelica, call a doctor, quick!
























You go home like a good kid.









But it's true.

The baby's not moving because of me.

What kind of mercy would it be if he let that happen to a child?





On these very streets, people smiled at each other.






Dr. Chilton wants to see you.
Do you understand everything I said, darling?



Yes, darling?

Do you hear me, darling?









Yes, darling...













- Tell Dr. Chilton the car's ready. - Yes.





















The child needs to be given hope.



















Walk the other way!





We want her to know she has friends.
A lot of friends. Give her our love, and we'll get out of here...























It's gonna be okay, honey.


It's not charity, it's just a gift from friends.

Hello, darling.

Goodbye, darling.


Really?
Really?



- Really?


And I'll be waiting for you, darling...
Yeah, really.












Get well, darling.





- Hello, darling. We have news for you.








We've been looking for good in people, and we've found it, haven't we?










Why would I have a free night?
















Write each other passionate letters?































































About my baby.










I'm buying this house as a wedding gift for my baby.


























Because your boss and I are gonna have a little drink, aren't we?














































You're a woman.




























































I called her sister to work at the music store. And she, like us, doesn't know where Marion is right now.



















































Here, the soft mattress... the hangers in the closet and the forms on which Bates Motel is printed. If you want your friends to be jealous at home.















- I don't mind, really, I don't mind.

























































And it's not as expensive as you think.











Do you have any friends?
Guy's best friend is his mom.








It didn't rain long, did it?


We climb, we cling... but only to the air, only to each other.






































































Really?














































- Who are you, friend?
- My name is Arbogast, friend.










- Easy, buddy.


























- Good evening.
- Good evening.





Truth be told, I didn't forget to turn the lights on, just, you know, it doesn't make sense.


















































































































































And I can't even be fooled by women.








Sick women are usually observant.


































I think our friend Sam didn't know Marion was here.
































An old sick woman can't open it or won't.












Good evening.











It was tonight.











































































But if that woman, Mrs Bates, then who's lying on the cemetery?



























- I got here before work.










I know you're not like that, but there was no woman, and I don't believe in ghosts.





















































































- I can handle a sick woman.














I think it would be amazing, wouldn't it?






















































His mother was a demanding and grasping woman. For years, he and his mother lived in their world, as if there were no others.













So when he was attracted to a woman, "the mother part of him" was pissed off.




















































I'm looking for a job, what's so wonderful about that?

I have a feeling you're gonna find a job tonight.









- We only invite friends.




































The poorer you are, the more expensive you are.










































































































- Dear... dear boy!




























































Really, John?



Kids, what weddings can be now...

Yeah, I think it's true.



























































It can't be real, can it, John?







I've known you since you were kids.






My children!















We love each other, we can't die.

















There's not much I can do for you right now, my children. - Goodbye.





Today everyone drives, trains, ships and planes help make friends around the world.





























































See, I got the job!


























- Do you like women?

- I love women.































































































































You look like a man I love, and...








































































Whose baby is that?
























- Mother of three, waiting for four.


Yeah, with this war and everyone else, it's true.



No, this woman can't be right.









- John, what you said was true?

It's true.







I'm sure, my friends, you'd do the same in my place if this were your mission.



























It's true, and we all agree.















































































































































































































































































It's true that we chanted and we hugged and sang.















































Isn't that right, Maria?
























































No, I don't want to. Isn't that right, Ginette?





















Rosaria, darling!


















Come here, children.
















Not only do you have brothers around your neck, you're gonna have kids of your own.



And I texted you that first we have to find the guys a job, that we're gonna get back to it, because finding a job in Milan isn't easy.
























You think of all your kids, that's right.


















Follow me, children! Take your things.






















































































It's okay, Mom. Luca, look, darling, it's snowing!





Simone, darling, get up.

Everyone's gonna have a job today.











Simone, get up, it's snowing, there's work.














- Clever. Simone! Simone, come here, darling!














Get dressed, darling, zip up.







You'll have a job.




Simone, put on your hat, darling.





Hurry up, kids, 'cause I'm cold.



Go, don't be lazy. Good luck with your work.



















You're being led all over the place by your brothers. When I'm at work, so are you.






If a man loves a woman...



As a man to a woman without asking permission from her or from others.















































Good evening.
Good evening.












And they didn't find a permanent job.


















Really. He's a real champion.























- Good evening. - Good evening.












Why are you staring at women, my children?







Isn't she there? Brigadier, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have bothered you.







Let's go to dinner, kids, soup's ready!




















































































Good evening, everyone! Bravo, Bravissimo!






Good job, Simone.


















































































Simone went to work today?


What kind of work is this? I don't understand.









































































Yeah, tonight.




























That's right, it's like new!


These are Dr. Frosati's socks.
A handsome man like you, they'd fit. Really?

















































For example, women, cigarettes, drinks... and other dangers.








































































Good evening.




















What a burden it is for a single woman to run such a shop!





































That's right, darling.


Ah, these kids!































To sleep with me, darling, it's worth it.




















Me. I went to work, I needed the keys to the meter.




She's really crazy.
















Today, when I left work, I met a girl.




















And you're far away in the service. Simone still doesn't have a permanent job because of training.

































Nope. I had a friend in the village, and not even one.






















Work, home, so everyone's fed up.











































They bought it last night, they brought it in late tonight, they didn't have time to put it on.















Come on, darling.
















And even when the baby was born, you didn't go to them?



















































































































Most of the time, they're at the Gisolphe Bridge in the evenings.

































































































No, they did.






















































































































































We'll talk tomorrow night.










- Good evening. - Good evening.








Ciro, darling.



Ciro, tell me, tell me, darling, what's my fault?







Me, Rosaria, Signora, in such a big city, out of respect for my children!




















































































































































But can he support a woman like me?



































































You don't risk losing your job, do you?



















































Look, me and the guys saw our Simone beat this champion one night by the Gisolphe Bridge.









It works like this: Take a client downtown and take him to the reservoir, there's no one there tonight.


Tell me, is your brother still messing with that whore or finding someone more expensive?


























































To your success, my dear!
























My friends, I ask you one thing: Be with me forever!































Come on in, all your brothers are here, darling.

























































The enemy is what we are now, the enemy.









































Here's the horn. I gotta get to work.















Are you coming home tonight?


























How's work, Dad?



Another cup of tea, darling.
I thought I'd spoil you Friday night.

























It's thirsty after a week's work.

















He fell down the stairs and poured beer on the woman.























































Honey, hurry up, let me get out of here.





























































































































































Most men don't go anywhere but to work.

That's enough, isn't it?










She's a good girl, isn't she? Beautiful.










To work tomorrow.




















You wouldn't say that if you won a lot of money. Really?




You're the one who planted the dead rat on that woman?



I have so much work to do, I can't get away from the machine.
I don't have time to torture women.

































Being married isn't bad. If you feel good about each other and don't put too much pressure on each other.

























It's funny, isn't it?














The important thing is that we love each other.

















I think you're still too busy with young women.








You don't come out very often because of night work, do you?










































































Well, you'd fire them, wouldn't you?




- He's got a wand for you, isn't he?
- It's true.
Like my father, hard work.

Give me some more tea, darling.





















































Really.





My friends just came to see me for a little while.










































What a lovely evening. Friday.....................................................


You're probably gonna have to show the baby so you can believe it.






















Don't you want a baby?



Do you know what it's like to have a baby?

And then one day you're screaming in pain, and you're having a baby.





















I see Burt's still at work.







It's about the guy from my job.













You can't betray friends in trouble.
It's you, isn't it?


I know a woman who went to jail for that.

































Yeah, it's true.




































But you didn't have to break it, did you?













I saw it, and that woman over there.






















I'll wait till tonight. Until the old man gets back.




































- It's not Arthur. He hasn't come from work yet.










































This woman says she was shot in the oven.






She says you threatened her with a gun. Is that true?












































































You feel better, don't you?





























Let's go to the fair on Saturday night.


Not bad. I'm with my friends from work.









So you want a baby now?



Isn't that right, Arthur?

There's nothing you can do, is there?





























They must be very expensive.







You never tell the truth. Never, huh?






You're not gonna like the truth.



Well, I had an affair with a married woman. Her husband took revenge on me with them.






















- We're dating, aren't we?















How's my friend?













Don't go, darling, I'll be right back.























Your mom's been reading the paper all night.













Yeah, it's true.






















































































Burt and I used to run around these hills when we were kids.

















Let's get to work!






Everybody get to work!




Tell me the truth.





















































It's clear you don't have to kill each other here.







Sometimes those who please me... can enjoy the company of a young woman.














I want you to be my friends.
I want to be your friend.

































The gladiator has no friends.













I never knew a woman.










































Woman!


















































My friends want to see two pairs of gladiators fight.

















































































































































And you're the only friend of my brother... who hasn't given him a wedding present yet.




















Honey! You were honored to signal the start of the fight.






























































































The children of my master, whom I also taught classics...






My dear Crassus, congratulate me.
Or better yet, let's congratulate each other.

































No, my friend.













And for God's sake, my friend, make sure you don't have to sneak into town quietly when you get back.


The famous Romans fight each other like animals!




Crixus, I promised myself that if I ever got out... I'd rather die than watch two kill each other.




















































































Women.
Women!



Everyone knows that you have all the maids - women.

I only hold these women for respect for Roman morality.

I like women.

Yeah, you respect women too much.

Must be insufferable to be with women all the time?








Even in the morning, I was happier than any rich man... and in the evening I became a beggar, without a penny behind my soul... except for these rags that cover my poor flesh.
















There's women in all sorts of articles.



Why are you buying a woman you've never seen?





















































Too many women.
What's wrong with women?
Where would you be, man, if that woman, in spite of all the pain of hell... wouldn't bring you into this damn world?






















What kind of work did you do?
That was my job.























































































































My friend... when will you be ready?














It's a fine job.































Spartacus, the pirate told the truth.



































































































Glabr is my friend, and I have a part of the responsibility.


































Why, darling?
I'm having a baby.


Child.......................................
A child?





The baby... in the spring...









This is my first child.
The baby...











































































Greakch is my friend.


What's worse, betraying a friend or Rome?
































































- My dear commander.

































































































































































My dear, all-powerful Mark Lycinius Crassus... what if Spartacus is looking for you on the battlefield?









A naughty kid. He beats me with his fists all the time.






















Tell him the truth.





















It's true.






Are you Spartacus' woman?

And this is his baby?








I even agree to take the baby as a payment.
- How many women have we taken prisoner?

Most of them fled to the mountains with their children.
You can sell everyone else, but not this woman.




To transport this woman and her baby to my home in Rome.

























This woman, Valeria, is in his house.



Only a woman of rare merit... can keep Crassus away from herself.



- She's an unusual woman.









Let's kidnap this woman.




It's a great plan... I hope you're not offering to steal this woman!






































You can take your women with you.





























- The baby... is he okay?


I hope her milk fits the baby.

I prefer to feed the baby myself.




But you're interested in the baby's life, aren't you?
Are you threatening me with a baby?





You think by threatening to kill my child... you're gonna make love in my soul?
I didn't threaten to kill the baby at all.






You're on the line between the truth and the insolence... with the skill of the squirrel!



































And the baby.






































I wonder what Spartacus would say... if he knew that some Valeria and her child were slaves in my house?










- Yes, my dear Caesar.












So here she is, a woman... who Crassus was able to conquer only eight legions!













Here's a free woman.
And this is the birth certificate... for the baby.
























She's on her way... with the baby to Aquitania, with the permission of the Senate.


































































No, dear Adelaide, you're never too much!























To see my friend Robert!





































- Kids!

- To have kids?














































































































































Women first.





















































































I forgot to tell you, all the women were just looking at me.




Well, I told you... I told you women only looked at me!





























































Anyway, put your heart in your work.





































- Really?










And to the happiness of our children!
























To the happiness of the children!





















































































































































































My children, we have no choice.


















You have to eat well, don't you?






































- It's true! These traders are taking it out of your mouth!






























































Friend! To save her, I'm going to her!































































































































































My children, the tire is punctured.







































































Tonight, when you fall asleep, you have an angel...





































That's what a profession means, my children.








































Tonight...






















- Goodbye, my dear.
Have a nice evening, everyone!















They're gonna run away forever! Thanks to my dear Toximit!



















































































Kids!
Come on, kids!

































































































































































































































































































Be brave, friends!
That's it, hand in hand, the Romans get to work!

































































- Oh, yeah, really!














- A loyal friend!
A loyal friend!




Oh, Brutus, my dear friend!























































On your face, friend, I like to see that smile!









- Is it true he kills everything?









































































































































































Hello, Doctor. Glad you could make it.




































































Honey, I'm sorry, I must have fallen asleep on the move.































































































- Miss Ogle, darling.





































I was too obsessed with my work, but now things are gonna be different.
Thank you, darling.







You can count on me. I'll help you and your baby.





















Three other women in the village are crazy. - That's awful.








When my wife told me she was having a baby, it was the happiest moment of my life.



I talked to four women.







It means that every woman of childbearing age is about to have a baby in our village.






This is Anthea Zellaby, Doctor.
























- You're having a baby.
Whose baby?

















We're still very busy, but the doctor asked me to tell you that Mrs. Zellaby is okay.
- And the baby?




- How's the baby?








How many women have given birth today?












Take a look, Doctor.











So, they're obviously normal children, with the following exceptions:
















































I warned you not to play with those kids.





















People, especially children, are not only measured by their intellect.

No one likes these kids but you.
But they're just kids.
Children are born free of moral values.


























Honey, your finger.









I want to inform you that Midwich is not the only colony of these children.


All the children died within 10 hours of birth.
In the Eskimo colony, 10 children were born.

Blonde-haired children from dark-haired mothers broke taboos.




Men killed children and their mothers.

All the children survived.
According to our information, although limited, these children receive a good education.


Any word on the origin of these children?



That I may be the father of one of these children could affect my scientific position.



Dr. Carlisle?



















Do you think these children are the result of an impulse directed towards us from somewhere in the universe?









A series of clashes, mainly between village children.

Children fight all over the world.



There are accidents with children.

These children have some mysterious power.



These kids are about to get out of control. It's only a matter of time.











Gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk about the power of these children.




These children want to dress equally, and what one of them has learned, others learn.













Who says these kids can't be our salvation?




























































Many parents send their children far away, and David will be only half a mile away from home.


















Edward Paul didn't notice the baby and almost hit him.
































It's a very strong blow for me. I couldn't get through to those kids.






















Apparently, they tested it yesterday in the village of Raminsk, where their children lived.



They didn't warn anyone. They couldn't evacuate the residents without the children knowing what was going to happen.
Their children developed faster than ours.








Well, they're meeting tonight to make a decision.





































The children will make the soldiers shoot each other.




Is there a limit to the strength of these children?


























































Do you still go to the kids' nights?




































Good evening, children.
































Some of them sit there in the evenings with a couple of them. They're gonna sit, they're gonna sit, and then they're gonna ask for their own room, and we don't have any rooms available.





































- No, let him dance, don't they?











































































- Here you go. So the kids sleep, go home.

























































































































- Well, it's okay tonight and have lunch and dinner.




































































































































































The old maple, the old maple, the old maple knocks into the glass. Taking me and my friends out for a walk. Why, why...




























































































- Really, why are we standing?














































- I wonder why people love each other.





















































































































He learns the truth, all people will lose their faith for the rest of their lives.












- Good evening, girls.




































- Good evening, girls.




















































Katka's sweet, isn't she?

















- It's true you argued with me, isn't it?

















































































































Just calm down, really, I want to eat a halva, I want a carrot.
































Anything at work?







- What's going on?





































































The most expensive, within the sum.




































































Well, we'll meet tonight, well, we'll go for a walk, we'll listen to the records.







So there was a time when women were in charge of men, a very good time, but I forgot its name.

- You know, too? That's where we had the doves, so no, let out their ancient women, now they're in charge.






























































He only knew Mom was having a baby.




















































It's a story about a simple woman.
A very simple woman and her children.



















The bright woman dominated the big oven.
































































People have kids like kids, and I have God with her like a wolf.
























And how can you not know that there will be no children spoiled?
She can't have children, she's ruined herself.

























































































































Here, for example, are the children of the same family.




























And left seven souls of children behind.






And he had two children and a chick from his brother's inheritance.


































































It was a shame that they had been working all day, walking around looking for her, and that the kids weren't sleeping.














I'm telling you, tomorrow night I'm gonna go back to the hospital at Mary's.

Let the children rest.








She's a married woman.



































Me and the kids are going somewhere and we're gonna build another house.
I'm not gonna leave him with any kids.










That's how she's gonna sit alone in the evenings and wait for Ahmet.



And Evdokim and the children will be far away.













I told you the truth.




























































































































Dear comrades!







































I drink, I wash, I sew, I raise children.





















But our proletarian court, he sees the truth.


























That's the money my husband earns with his hard work, and our children feed on it.










Stolen a child, dear comrade Judge, husband and wife of Chernyshova.


Do you want to raise your child yourself?



So please, my dear comrade Judge, support me as a working woman, a proletarka against these landlords.








Under what circumstances did the child come to you?















































Couldn't have been that bumpy woman with the red nose being his mother.










































































Praying for her children.




Maybe Evdokim is right. Children are right. There is no God.




































Mother at work?














































You weren't the only one growing up, darling, the others weren't.















































Of all the children, she was the one who cared most about her.
























Because I'm a woman.


'Cause you're a woman, you didn't see it.





















































They go to the theater in the evenings.




Listen, do you have kids?













And you can't hurt kids.



You can be fooled, you can even change each other, and you can understand it all.











You know, she's a simple woman.






























The children moved into a housewarming home.








































































Think of me as a cold grandfather, really, without a beard.











Isn't that right, Lucy?











































































































































































































































































































- He'll call tonight.






















































































We're friends.


























































But understand, the baby needs a father.



































































I'm in trouble at work.
























- Hello, Alexei! - Good evening!
































































































































- Not really, it's not your fault!


































What do you live with? What do you care about?


















































I'm a man, damn it, and I need the truth!



























































































- Come in, darlings.
























Now I'm sorry that I messed up a lot of evenings with my presence in this house where I live so well.





If that's what you're saying, there's nothing I can do to stop writing and start looking for a good job right now.











Do you really like it?


























It's a beautiful place, isn't it?






























These are my only friends.
The rest are acquaintances, fellow workmen.




































































































































- Poor Lydia. We've hated each other since we were two years old! - My husband.





















Tonight's the first time in years you went out to the nightclub, you know?












- See who's here? - Good evening.



























- Good evening. - Giovanni Pontano, author...





You see, I'd like to have an affair where there's a woman who falls in love with a man, but this man doesn't fall in love with her.



- She has to be a tough woman. Capable of sacrifice.
Here's the end! She sacrifice herself for the happiness of another woman!














As I told you, dear friend, it's absurd to talk about wealth today.




Yes, darling, but everyone is capable of creating something durable. You...




Life is the way we create it in our work!





This job is so lonely, laborious. This tedious setting of words one after another!
No one can mechanize this job.
















When I was young -- unfortunately, many years ago -- I imagined the world that way, and I started working with the idea of a future like this.
















































That would be a way to get to know each other better.





- Bye, darling. Yeah.










- Is this a permanent job? Sure.











It's beautiful here, isn't it?
















For friends, Rezie.


Then I think you have a lot of work to do.



Now go to your wife and stay with her the rest of the night.




I was very sad tonight. Then, while playing with you, it went away.




I think we need to tell each other something more. Yeah, that would be natural, but...



- I get it. You're working tonight. - Nope.

























































Really! You don't believe me, do you?














When I said to him, "Dear Mr. Hemingway, I like you, I'd like to visit you at your home in Cuba."

However, he knows his work well.




Money, my dear, never throw away.
Our time, dear Signor, is anti-philosophic and harsh. He doesn't have the courage to say what's valuable and what's not.















All I want to do tonight is die, I swear to you.












You've exhausted me completely tonight.














Was he really your good friend?

















If I want to die tonight, it's because I don't love you anymore.


















































































However, it's true.




































































You know, there are nights... when you think about life.









































































































My dear Alice, how is Jean Langlois?






How many children do Isabel Langlois have now?

That morning, Isabel Langlois, his sister-in-law. At the time, Isabel Langlois had three children.




Isabel Langlois then had a child named Albert.






Yeah, with your friend.













































































































I'll come tonight.








































































































Beautiful place, best friends.



















Have the doctors told you anything about your memory?











You're a very nice woman.
A woman...



You were married to a woman named Teresa Langlois.



















































Don't catch the baby.








Give the grandma the baby back with a bullet!











































































































































Hey, man, get up.









Hey, man, have you been to the Aryka?


































Hey, guys!































Why would a child have such ideas?
















































"Listen to Riga's family and don't forget your friends."
































And in the souvenir, I was told that until a woman gave birth, the chief doctor wouldn't be able to see me.
I stood and waited patiently for this woman to give birth.














And this kind woman will be your second mother."





















She's just starting her life, and my business is by tonight.

I have a sick wife and kids in Riabinsk I don't think I'm gonna see anymore.







































































Really, really, don't even think about it.
























































































































































Where are your friends?

















Hang on, man!




























Look, man.










You, that's what, man... you eat, you eat.




































































Of course, if I wasn't on the road, she'd be back by tonight.
















































I had to raise awareness among her.


















































































































































Nürk likes to sing and dance. And this one only has a job on his mind, just a job.





















What kind of kids went, I'm sorry, God. And what's keeping them from being given a lot of trouble in the long run?














They loved each other without memory.






























And I really respected Roman Semyonovich.

















We loved each other without memory.












Where do they come from? If all your children are taken to Russia. Sit down.













You're gonna learn, you're gonna get a job.















































Really?






No, I saw a friend who told me...















A very beautiful woman.


The days that we live here side by side, passing through these corridors with a measured step, at the length of our hand, without once reaching out to each other these fingers made to squeeze,



















Frank told her he was her father's friend, and he came to look after her.

She realized it a little late the night he tried to break into her room, as if by accident, and by the way, under absurd pretext, he wanted to explain to her the meaning of old paintings.

But his presence here has nothing to do with anything, my friend, not at all...
















































There was a stone sculpture group next to us on a rather high post, a man and a woman dressed in antiquity, their unfinished gestures as if they were playing some particular scene.












































You still have the same missing look, the same smile, the same sudden laugh, the same way to stretch your hand, as if by repelling something: the baby, the branch, and slowly pulling the brush to the spoon by the shoulder,













Told you a man wanted to stop a young woman from moving on.



A man and a woman left their home country, walked many days in a row where their eyes looked.



























Look, here you distinguish between the movement of a man and the coming gesture of a young woman.






















You were in a circle of friends-- random buddies.


















To break the silence, someone talked about the entertainment scheduled for this evening, or the next day, or the following days.



















One night, I went straight up to your room.















But it's not exactly the truth.

- No, I saw a friend who told me.








One night, I went straight up to your room.






























































It was the last night, I guess.




We stood a few metres apart without saying a word.


















































































You were always scared, but I loved your fear that night.














































Yeah, it's true, there was a big mirror right by the door, a huge mirror you didn't dare approach, like it scared you.
































It was all deserted that night:









































So I'll see you tonight.









Living... like you've been every night for weeks... for months.






























All the rooms look like each other...






We stood a few metres apart without saying a word.






































I'm gonna leave this evening... taking you... with me...





















The one who's barely gone, maybe your husband, who you might love, who you're leaving tonight, even though he doesn't know yet, you've packed some personal belongings and prepared everything you need to change quickly.





Everyone gathered tonight at a theater performance that was announced a long time ago and that you were relieved of your malady.



Leaving you lying in bed in his room... he went to the small theater hall, where he took a seat in the middle of a group of friends.









































































You've got some work to do there.




















































- Really?



















































































Hand-made shapes, and also a very original melody.









My dear Martelly, that's not what happens in these walls.
We've got a nasty job...








That's a nasty job, dear Martelly.
It's all about work.














































Dr. Palumbo...
Dr. Palumbo!

Patience, my dear Martelly, patience.















Tell you what, Dr. Palumbo, I'm proud of my grandfather.



































































All my friends know about this.


For what purpose did you meet her last night?







Dr. Palumbo, don't try to confuse me.














































































She pushed me to marry a woman... younger.

Dear Martelly, you're a woman.














Dr. Palumbo, I want to go home.




















- We used to be close friends.


























After all, he's my friend.





Tired of looking at the same faces, tired of the same old friends.







Don't be a kid!





































'Cause the expansion work got my finances in total disarray.




Again, if you don't mind, what was the purpose of your visit to her last night?








Then why did you come last night?




























I wanted to pick you up last night, Maurice.




















































































- You claim you were here last night.



Last night, there was a conflict between you over bills of exchange that were due to expire today.



















Maybe she thought that if I married a woman who wasn't dangerous in her eyes, then after the wedding, we could get back together.








I'm really broke.














































































































































































- Show it to the doctor.





- Have the doctor examine you.







We have guests. Good evening.
Good evening.



















































You're gonna tell them the truth and they're gonna check every word you say.






































Look at you, it's a great job.














































Did you know that Mrs. De Matteis was expecting a baby?





- And last night?










Last night.

















I can make love to a woman... and not feel obligated to her.











Signorina Nogaro, why didn't you meet Signor Martelly last night?







And now that you know the truth, what do you think of him?












































































































































You're gonna tell me that the night you killed her, you were at the Aurora Hotel.






























I really broke up with Vexel, but I didn't kill Adalgiza, believe me.
















I told the truth.
























































































This woman's life has been so messed up.



















































Why are you women so eager to make ends meet " and"? , where did this passion come from, living by the law of morality?






























































































You must have dizzyed a lot of women.
Women?


I can't resist a woman.




I'm talking about women.

Speaking of women, I mean you.
























"Dear son of Lord Goodwin."






































Bring him in and we'll find out the truth.








































































































We're gonna get drunk tonight at the Golden Gallen, and you're gonna forget all about it.


We're celebrating Captain Poof's return tonight.






































































I only obey you as far as work is concerned, okay?

























I love passionate women.




































Women...




























I'm a sailor, darling.
You're the woman of my dreams.
Keep dreaming, my friend.

















Good luck, friends!


Friends, since we risk our lives, let's do it for ourselves, not for England.










No, darling.























You're the most beautiful woman in the world.









Oh, Peter, any lie in your mouth becomes true.

























A noble woman with a rich inheritance.
















Galop behind each other!



























































































































































































Even women should be afraid of the gallows.




















- I'm a woman!











- Is that true?














But, however, I think you know how to talk to women.


It could be true.












Among a lot of women...











































































What do you think of the woman who stole my locket and immediately returned it?

































































He doesn't come here for women anymore, like he used to.







All women need men.

































I'll never kill a woman.




Or I'll forget you're a woman.







Captain Poof, if you're really a woman, you shouldn't like these things.

A woman like any other.






























































If all the women in the colonies were the same as you, I would have left old England soon.













Hey, honey, what's going on here?






- Oh, Harry, really...





Honey, I'm sorry, but I lost my key.






- Come on, honey, you like me.






I paid the bill for five of your friends.









Honey, don't be mad. I won't do it again. I can also let you take those pictures.


































Isn't that right, cat?




We don't belong together. We just moved in together once.














































Really, it's very touching. All women in their best outfits.

And the kids, too.
It would seem that the children there would be a sad sight, but they wouldn't.












































































Oh, honey, I'm so sorry.








Oh, darling, let me see you!


- It was a terrible flight, wasn't it?


















































Really.








Dear Fred, I'm sorry.

























Tell me, are you really a writer?

































- Really?



Do you really get paid $50 when you go to the ladies' room?



You know, you really look a little like my brother Fred.





















Really.
We're friends. That's all.
- Are we really friends?









If we were gonna be friends, we'd be doing something else right now.


Lucille, darling?





Ah, my dear.



Can you survive without me tonight?

I'm freaking out. I'm gonna dunk in a boy's way.

























- Okay. Hey, honey, your skirt's in the way here.




























Oh, honey, there you are.
Fred, honey, I'm so glad you came!










Honey, I want you to call him and tell him what kind of genius Fred is.































- O.J. Berman. She was just a kid.


























Irving, darling, where have you been?
Mike, honey, I've been trying to reach you all day.



- Time, darling.











Honey, you're not worried about that, are you?



Holly, honey!












- Wait a minute, darling...













He's just melting in his mouth, isn't he?


- Of course not, darling.



















Good evening!










Meg, honey, you're getting boring.






- Oh! Good evening, Ed.
- It's Paul dear.

























Sally, honey, stop.
































I noticed him last night.











Honey, don't, please.




Son, I need a friend.










Lula May should be home with her husband and children. Children?
- These are her children.
- She's got four kids?


The honored woman...







All the homework was done by our daughters.

This woman got a little round, and her brother turned into a giant, and they were completely different from themselves when we got here.












Lula May must be with her husband, children and brother.

- Nope. I could never figure out why that woman ran away.



The night I proposed, I cried like a child.





Look, son, I'll tell you, I need a friend because I don't want to shock her or scare her.
Be my friend, tell her I'm here.






Oh, honey, but I have to go.




























Wait for me here, darling. I'll take the bag.






















He's all right, isn't he?
























Fred, darling, what a terrible thing...

The truth is, now I'm all crying about it...



- Fred, darling, will you buy me a drink? - Sure.






















Harry was his friend.








So, my dear Fred, tonight I made a very important decision.








Rusty, what's his friends' name, who I'm sure he has a lot of...











True truth.


































I wanted to talk about tonight, but then I saw the paper and...































Fred, darling, I'll tell you one thing...




Fred, honey, it's so good to see you.





Really!















It's true I went every six o'clock on 5th Avenue, but I think it's still night.

















I'm not sure we can find anything here for ten dollars.






I think they're divine to older women, and they're not good enough for me. Do you know what I mean?
















































- Really?


















He's really the author of it.


Sign it. Wouldn't that be great?

Really, Miss...








Did you ever steal anything from 5-10 when you were a kid? Nope.
I was an impressive book kid.

















Isn't that right, darling?




































Don't be ridiculous, darling. Take the check.








Really?





























Honey, you know him... pal Meg Wildwood.

Now, darling, even though you won't believe it, he's not only attractive and rich, but he's totally crazy about me. - You're crazy.





Do you really think so?



If you really think so...






Good evening, Mr. Yunioshi.
- Oh, good evening, Paul. - Good evening.
Good evening.















Your husband and children are very sorry for our loss.





















I got a job.







Truth is, I don't care much about that.


Really, honey, I can't tell you how happy I am.









Jose went to Washington for one night, and I thought I'd consult with you and... okay.










Well, the truth is, he didn't ask me, at least he didn't say so many words.








It's a classic East Indian dish, my dear.

Really?
By God, darling, I did it to impress you...


















Come on, darling, let's eat. It's late.











Wanted woman! Here!
























- Well, darling, why don't you start?







































































Listen, honey, did you find a plane ticket? - Sure.










Don't be stupid, darling.



What for, darling?









"My dearest girl, I loved you, knowing that you are nothing like the rest of the world, but I am desperate to see how ruthlessly and publicly I have been given the opportunity to understand how far away you are from a woman,















I really didn't think you were meant to be a pampas queen anyway.










Please, darling, don't sit there and look at me like that.















People don't belong to each other.










We don't even belong together. Stop the car.













People belong to each other because it's the only way to get real happiness.
















































Hey, are you really the ones who always come here?






I'll find another job.


A job where boars like you are separated.








Why did you get this job?














































We can really do something.











































But she's already finished the job.



































That's really great.














































































































































You look like a woman.





Have a good job.








































































Make sure they find nothing tonight, no body.














Did something really happen?









It's really incredible.






































If I tell the truth, we'll be...






You can get a good job.

























You're really lucky.

























































Really?
Did you really do that?




















































































Am I a creative person?































But he really does look bad.
















I really feel sick.





































The Companions should never lie to each other.





















Do you really look like you're sick?



I want to know the truth.






It's a very important thing for a woman.






I'll tell you the truth so your mother doesn't worry.










About the suffering of their women.








































































You do this thing with pigs and you get a job.
You do this thing with pigs and you get a job.














Are you going to the dance tonight?













It's true.
Really?






































You're gonna be a big woman.
All Japanese women will be proud of you.

He's just like a kid.











































































What happened last night?















I've got work to do at night.
















Really?
Really.















































































































































































































































How about tonight?














Kids like you.






















Are you going to the dance tonight?













Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, You've become weak women!





Kill each other.

Once again, they're ruining our cities, stealing our men and women into slavery.













































They say all women in love feel the same.












Father, tell the truth.


There are two of my dearest men, my father and Rodrigo.








You've always been a loyal friend to me.
I could have been more than just a friend if you'd let me.












































































You think the woman you love is capable of less than you?
























































Do you really want Rodrigo dead or is that a minute's anger?




















































Before I die, I mean. The woman you love promised to be mine if I killed you.








































We must have hurt each other too much.












































































































I almost became king. Really?


































































































God bless the woman I love, who finally became my wife.











































I brought friends who want to help us fight.






- They're your friends.
- We don't think they're friends.



















I can't leave you here, I can't leave the children without protection.





We could do a lot for each other and for Spain.












If you put Donna Jimen and the kids in prison, will Sid give up on us or not?












The king said he wouldn't let Donna Jimen and the kids go.

What am I gonna let my wife and kids stay in the dungeon?











Can't I think about my wife and kids sometimes?












Help me run with the kids.


To stop Rodrigo from coming here, I'm gonna kill myself and the kids.















































Does he know about the dungeon, about the kids?
















































































And the kids?























Now tell the truth.













































I want you and my children to remember me riding next to my king.



































Be reasonable, woman!


































































































































My friend, we have to switch armor, you and me!


































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - It's true, Aunt Boone.






































































































































Even the doctor thought I was gonna die, didn't he?





























































- That first day, at your father's shop, I felt like I was getting a friend.











































Dear God!

























Damn your mysticism, woman!
































- This is your old friend Francis.































In the meantime, last night, when I asked you to contribute to the king's treasury, you refused.







It's a farm job!





















































































It's true - we're only eleven now... but soon after we pray to God, we'll bring in many others.



























































































































































































































































The kids are here.












You must never forget to laugh! Even when you become an adult child like me.
Well, now I have to bless them and get back to my job.



Goodbye, children! And thank you for coming!













- God gives you peace, dear brother!













































- But it's true! Yeah, there's an excuse for you, but it sounds like a conspiracy!






































God will take care of all his children.





























































































You didn't create a Christian today, but you got a real friend!



















He's stinking! That's the truth!


























































































































































































I hated Francis because I felt he stole from me the only woman I ever loved.































My friends are calling me!




You thought you were supposed to build churches out of solution and stone... but you built temples in the hearts of millions of men and women everywhere!




































































































- Are you a friend of Paco's?





If you're a friend, he probably mentioned you.


































Maybe they're already dead, these friends of Peres.



























































We don't have a woman in our hands, we have dynamite.







- Is that true, Chico?


























































- Our friend Perez the Apron.


















- Is it true you didn't know anything?



















































































- We'll stop by my mother's house in San Felipe tonight.



















- Oh, you're a friend of Chico's?








































- A friend of Guzman's.
























- How wonderful to see Perez, isn't it, Isa?




- That's not how you treat a woman.
- How do you think they treat women? - I feel sorry for you and your soldiers!







And the kids?
All men in the cemetery. And the women cried out all the tears.





So the kids and I can be happy. But are we happy now?








































































But we'd love to come back, wouldn't we, guys?














And it's true, damn it, sir!


























































I have to, it's part of my job.










Isn't that right? - If that's what you think, sir.



















It's good to have one for a job like this.


















I also know I have a job on Crete.




































We have to do our homework.



















































Listening under the door is part of his job?
































Really.








































There's also a big storm in your zone tonight.










Looks like our friend Baker has a lot to explain.






As a child, I expected everyone to play games that I liked and got angry when they didn't want to.

















He's the best friend I have here.










At the time, he was on a mission, but his wife and three children were in the house.


















































I'll do my job.




I'm doing my job, sir!
Your job is to kill enemy soldiers.






























Now come on, Brown, now it's your job to take care of Major Franklin.

















I've always wanted this job.




























We'll take you underground tonight.




I'll meet you at St. Alexis' tonight.
Good evening, gentlemen.





























































No, no, these are friends, our friends.















































































I swear to you, sir, it's true.









The truth is, sir, they don't trust me.
















































































My wife and children were killed.




















We're supposed to be inside the fortress tomorrow at 10:00 P.M.






I said we need to distract the Germans from a full offensive tomorrow night on the Turkish side.





























There have been thousands of wars and there will be thousands more before we all kill each other.
























































































It's easy to be brave when you're free with your friends.


















































I'm starting to wonder who's responsible for the dirty work.





I can't speak for others, but I've never killed women, even though they're traitors, and I'm picky.


Come on, be a friend, father to your people.






























































Work done.
Your work is done!






Truth be told, I didn't think we could do it.
Truth be told, so am I!












All I want to do is save the kids, not destroy them.
I love children more than anything in the world.







You see, the truth is rarely understood by people without imagination, and I want to be completely truthful with you.



Speaking of my life in London, I'm having a great time here, but what I'm doing here doesn't fit the kids at all.
Anyway, Miss Giddens, I'm selfish and two orphaned children hang around my neck so badly.




So the kids don't live with you?

But I think you'll agree that living away from the city has a beneficial effect on children.


"I love children more than anything in the world."











Sir, do you realize this is my first job?


You see, Miss Giddens, the woman I'm gonna choose for this job has to swear to me that she's gonna take full responsibility.





These kids...


Don't think I have anything against Miss Jessel, she was an excellent governess and a respectable woman.
The children loved her very much, especially the little Flora.




When I thought it was all set up, it went on its own with this confused woman dying.












I'll do everything I can to make the kids happy.
















I've been following the road, waiting for you.






- We love each other.













- I think so, too, darling.







I'm really glad.
















But I always thought it was a paradise for the kids.

What a charming kid.


So the job's not gonna be easy.


































Should I take this job?





Even as a boy, he could have fooled anyone around, and the kids were all over him.


He was always very popular, and what's the point of being popular in the middle of nowhere, where only children, pigeons and me?






She was a young woman.








And the other kid's just as great?

If you like this kid, you'll be attracted to Mr. Miles.


















- Really? What do you see?










- We must finish the prayer, my dear.






















Have you seen Miss Giddens, darling?











Oh, look, darling, this is where I'm photographed with my family.









- No, honey.


Yes, dear, Miss Giddens?
Last night, you told us Miles was going home.




































































Dear Mrs Grouse!

























Dear Mrs Grouse, it's cozy with you.












- Really?














Miles, honey, you don't have to believe that.









Dear Miles, don't you see that I want to help you?



It's just the wind, my dear.

















I've been here all alone, except for my greedy friends.
But it can't be true. Two minutes ago, I saw a man standing right here.



















































Oh, yes, darling.



Yes, dear, but Miss Giddens said it out of courtesy.















































- Really?
























































Oh, honey.
























































It's true, Miss, upseting yourself with nothing.


















The kids never mentioned him.









You can't blame the baby.









Miss Giddens, darling, will you sit over there?






















Know what, Miss Giddens, darling?









































No, darling.




No, darling.









Where are the kids?









A woman dressed in black.










Oh, no, miss, I've never seen children tell lies.






I'm telling you, believe me, children are in terrible danger.














Quint and Miss Jessel... loved each other?










She was bad, but... no woman could take it anymore.







And the kids saw them?

I don't know what the kids saw.



















Tell me, were the kids happy?

But sometimes I wonder if they were really worried about the kids.




















































I understand the excitement makes you feel bad, but apart from those weird events, you can't help but admit that the kids were good.



Dear Mrs Grouse, I know how hard it is for you to think ill of these children.













That they have friends who scared them to death, and what if they're attached to them forever?




If I want to convince their uncle, I need to know the truth, the whole truth.




























- Where are the kids?














They cannot touch one another except by taking possession of the souls of their children.
These kids are obsessed.







One word, one word, the truth from these children, and we can banish these demons forever.


The children will hear.




Look at the kids.


The children are watching.
The children are watching.
The kids are watching!


































Miles, tell me the truth.
But it's true.
I mean, good kids get boring, don't they?













































A child? She's not alone, and now she's not a child.
She's a fully grown woman.






How did you get here, darling?












- That's not true, Miss Giddens, darling?




















Easy, easy, sweetheart, calm down.



Quiet, darling.












Quiet, darling.
















Maybe, but to hear such dirty words from the baby's mouth.




You saw this woman.










You knew them and what effect they had on the children.







And all I want to do is save the kids, not hurt them.

All I know is Flora was a sweet, happy, innocent kid until you shoved her face in...
- That woman.



















- Wake up a kid from a terrible dream, isn't that cruel?
If you were my age and cared for as many children as I am, you would know that waking up a child is sometimes much worse than the worst dream ever.














The truth.
The truth?






































I can't read minds, my dear, I've already told you that.


















Really?








Is that true, Miles?













Because you're not telling the truth!


















No, my dear, you don't think I'm like other guys.






You took it, didn't you?























They said I scared other kids.

















I'm not a child!








Shh, honey, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh!







Miles, dear Miles...













































































- Beautiful view, isn't it, sir?





























I was the only one in America who could do this job.




There's only doctors left, bankers and judges,






















































































In 1907, he was promoted to Doctor of Law.




















What are your plans for the weekend, friends?






















- Do you have any friends?






I'd rather say that, wouldn't I?














We still have high-ranking friends involved in command,


Dr. Janning, you and I both find ourselves in a rather uncomfortable position.









Dr. Janning, I must confess,




Dr. Vic, do you know the defendant Ernst Janning?










Dr. Vic, would you... would you agree, on the basis of your own experience, to describe the status of the judge in Germany before Adolf Hitler came to power?












As a result of these changes, justice was given to dictatorships. - Colonel Lawson, I'd like to ask you a few questions. - Dr. Vic...





















Dr. Vic, Mr. Senior Counselor, you said "required to protect the state," didn't you?














Dr. Vic, according to your confession, you weren't in administrative business between 1935 and 1943. So it's quite possible that you might have gotten along.


But how can you testify about an administration you weren't in?
I've had a lot of friends in the legal administration.



Dr. Vic, you said that "National Socialists have introduced new measures, including violent sterilization."











Do you know that statement, Dr. Vic?


So, Dr. Vic, given what you just heard, you're still saying that violent sterilization was the innovation of the National Socialists?










Dr. Vic,






Dr. Vic, did you have to bring in a public servant in 1934?















Yeah, but you're such an intelligent man, Dr. Vic. You knew what was coming.















































































































































People could get a job.







Well, Madame Bertolt is a very educated woman, Your Honor.



























I swear by the Almighty and the All-Knowing God that I will tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.



































I found a job at the farm, but there was a need to know how to drive a truck.














They asked me when Adolf Hitler and Dr. Goebbels were born.






































And the doctor who was supposed to operate... he also said it looked terrible.












Yeah, but what was his job?










Mr. Petersen, you said you were asked two questions in the Stutgart Court: to name the birthdays of Hitler and Dr. Goebbels. Right?



























































She was a woman, she worked as a maid and she worked honestly.




















But Roosevelt's friends also had non-radicals, didn't they?



































































- Good evening, Colonel.

Good evening, Mrs. Bertholt.




If you really want to go, I'll leave you a ticket to the concert. Thank you.



























































Sorry to interrupt your evening.











Good evening.
Good evening.













Herr Janning, we have to stick together, the Germans shouldn't go against each other.








- Good evening. Did you like it?



































- Yeah, I have a daughter, and she's got four kids herself.





Do you have children?




















It's hard for you now, isn't it?






















She was a very beautiful woman, very thin, even delicate.








Is the coffee really okay?





He hated me for marrying a woman from aristocracy.






















If I make the midnight train to Berlin, I can turn around by tomorrow night.

































Often in the evening... every night we waited as if we knew it was coming...
Dr. Goyter, do you recognize this headline?

































Would you please, Doctor, tell the court what happened after?





Dr. Goyter, tell me what accompanied this trial.






Tell me, Doctor, what do you think was going to happen to the process that took place in these sets?












I swear by the Almighty and the All-seeing God that I will speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.















We were friends.








































Ladies and gentlemen of the judge, I request that we add to the case a decree signed by Adolf Hitler, according to which all accused or suspected of treason or resistance to the authorities must be arrested secretly and without informing their friends or loved ones, without trial and without trial, sent to concentration camps.











I swear by the Almighty and the All-knowing God that I will tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.


























Children marked with tattoos are selected for subsequent extermination.
Sometimes there was mercy on the children - they were injected with morphine, and they were unconscious when they were hung.
One of the doctors there described how they were tied up on the necks of ropes, and then, if you quote this doctor:














































































You think we wanted to kill women and children?










































The secrecy of operations, the location of the camps, the restriction of communications in the last days of the war, when mass destruction passed over a million times, all prove once again that the prosecutor is not telling the whole truth.
And the truth is that this monstrous brutality has been perpetrated by several extremists!

















I swear by the Almighty and the All-knowing God that I will tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.




































































































Let me tell you the truth! That's exactly what we're trying to do, Mrs. Valner!
The truth! The truth!




































Women and children.










































































It's hard to tell the truth, but if Germany can count on some kind of forgiveness, the only way for those who know what their fault is to admit it despite the inevitable pain and humiliation.









Where were we when there were cattlecars at every German train station filled with children who were taken to the slaughter?












I'll tell you the truth.
I'll tell the truth because no one wants to know.


























































Ted, it's about survival, isn't it?








































































There's a lot of truth in that, as well as the fact that the true victim is a human civilization.












Janning's record and fate shed light on the monstrous truth that came to light as a result of this process.


None of those who were present in the courtroom will be able to forget either the violent sterilized because of their political views, the racketeering of friendly feelings and human devotion, or the killing of children.


























































Herr Rolfe, I've been really enjoying your work for months and I've been able to make sure that you're particularly good at logic, so what you're saying is quite possible.
















I swear on all the truth in the world, your sentence was just.






































What an expensive gift.













I have a baby, too.


































I work at my friend's art gallery.




You have a good job.



























































































































Are you free tonight?

















I'd love to, but the train tickets are very expensive.










It was a good night.




I enjoyed it tonight, too.

















































































No new rice - no job













Yeah, fate is weird. We haven't seen each other in 19 years.












Of course you helped me turn from a girl to a woman.


































Does she have friends like that? Yes.























Go on, what did the woman look like?





































Then that's the woman that my father kept in Osaka a long time ago.

I was a kid.













































I'm going to Kyoto to consult an old friend about our business.

Who is this friend?


















































































You look good on the job.


Sorry about the other night.















He was really upset when you left us that night.




















He's got two kids.







































He asked if it was true that I didn't like the western kitchen.


























































Call a doctor!


























The woman is one of Nagoya's.





































































I've been invited, but there'll be only children there, and people like me...

















































































































































































































Good evening.











Good evening.
Good evening.
Good evening. I'm Kohaiagawa.










I called the doctor right away, but he came too late.



















































































Yeah, it's true.










































"I'm sorry I didn't meet you at the train station. See you tonight.


















When a man loves a woman, it's kind of weird that he's keeping tabs on the gas.










At my age, you had two children.









I'd like to find a job that's nice, funny, well-paid, creative, and not too burdensome.









Tonight?










She's one of the ten most fashionable women in the world.









Tomorrow I'm going to visit one of the most elegant women in the world.

And in a month, you'll come to me asking for a room, a job, and 100,000 francs.















- I can tell you're a woman!












Albertina, calm down. Stay a woman and smile.









Really, and there's a lot of gas going on.























Good evening.







- It's good here, isn't it?














Dear Albertina, see you tomorrow night.









- Good evening.
- Good evening.
How do you like this ray beaster? Folclorno, isn't it?





Our dear scientist!































Unfortunately, a real man can only be found near a real woman.
Ms. Hélène Chalamber, the richest woman.

















I even wanted to invite an accordionist, Arnaud's friend.

It's funny, isn't it?


















Don't be afraid, I never take care of women unless they run a publishing house.






















































Hélène, this season Erben managed one dress, yours. My friend, you're blind!



























Friends are here today.









And they all live at each other's expense.
Anyway, the women here are beautiful.
In Paris, ugly women sleep at night.








































































We forgive beautiful women in front of the mirror and blame smart men who love to listen to themselves.





You'd better pack up and leave tonight with us.







You said I'd be here in a month to ask you for 100,000 francs, a room and a job.
And you came? True, it lasted a week longer, and I need 200,000 francs. Yes.

About the job, we'll think about it.










- Isn't it beautiful? - Fascinating.












Kids, your father and I are leaving for Venice the day after tomorrow.


























A woman doesn't stay in Paris alone, even when the city is empty.

























































"If the evening is free and the heart is right, friends and music are waiting for you at my house.



Dear Richard!












I'm sorry, I can't talk to women.







Albertina, darling, I'd love to introduce you to Grandma, a lovely old lady who died too early and you'd get along very well.



















I had to finish the polytechnic to hope to find a taxi in Paris at 8:00 p.m.

Richard came up with names for our future children, and there was a very full woman standing next to me.

















Friends are gone.






He can act tactfully and non-intrusively, and it drives women crazy.








You look... like a primordial woman.














































Really funny.
You know, honey, thanks to you, I've become much more educated in the last few hours.
















I'm sure most women give this little one much less weight than you do.






"I'll look for a job.






































































I wanted to tell the story of a fake woman who came to conquer Paris.








And my hero, my provincial girl, looks like a woman I know.



















































"Dear Marie-Lora..."



"Dear Marie-Lora..."



Do you hear me, Doctor? Death!
Give me something, Doctor.



Doctor, what can I take?
Phenergan spoon morning and evening and two candles before bed.




Dr. Belen in Meson Alphore.

























Good evening.
Good evening.


































He and some friends.



Dr. Shalamber.












No, there's no doctor.





The doctor will be back in a quarter of an hour.





















They're like kids!























































But Doctor...

But Doctor...















He said to me this morning, "See you tonight."




His time was very expensive, so the drinks had to be drunk and paid for by the time he let him in.








































































You will, my friend.











































- But you have such a doctor...

No, my children.

Albertine, you were a witty woman.




































How many fools do you have to use to forget one smart woman?

















































































And the green means I need a simple woman, as opposed to you, and children!
You're not getting old enough, my friend.

You've had enough women on the panel!










If it weren't for her, my dear, I'd be the last to know.




























Dear Didier!
My loyal friend!

The first copy is for the author's friends, with a gifted inscription to the entire family.












- What happened, darling?



That our sweet kid stole...

Isn't that right, sweetheart?








Oh, my God, it's true.

Florence is expecting a baby, a little Bolshevik.
































































You'll lose your job and you won't be able to find a new one.




















It was a stupid job.














































Yeah, not everyone can leave their mother and child.
- What kid?


He left the poor poor girl who had to go to the cleaners... to sell himself into slavery to raise a child.


Aren't you going to work?








I'm telling the truth.












































It's true.





































































It's true, and I don't care.















Really.







Tonight at 7:00?









Really?
































We need to get the kid to school. I'm late.


























































And have more kids.
















Find new friends.
I had a friend, but I lost him.

You really want to leave?





































- Really?
- Really.































Are you free tonight?











Monsieur Favigny sent me... about the job.
What job?


What's the job?







































































I'm not a kid.













































Did you recognize each other?























He's charming, isn't he?



















































































Where's your baby?
















































































See you tonight.





I had to rehearse and pick up the kid from school.











- That you lost your job.




Never have to argue with a child...










It sounds funny that she was evicted and she died. But it's true.























That's what it takes to work.









































Sleep, darling.
Kids fall asleep instantly, but how much time they take...




- Kids don't have to be.

I love it, of course, but having a baby is very serious.
Kids usually happen by accident.
But only the child they've been waiting for is truly happy.


We often think so, but it's not true.





































He couldn't bear the thought... that he couldn't give his baby the best.




Take me home. I still have work to do.


He was suddenly offered a good job in the colonies.
















































Go to the hotel with your friends.



I'm leaving tonight.

































































































































I didn't know what you thought of me... not just as a friend.
We didn't know each other very well.



















I thought you were a friend.
I never had a friend, guys just came after me.















And I was gonna stay here and give up a great job.





















- This is my friend.






















I'm leaving tonight, along with everyone.
Tonight.

























































If you have a baby, it's for life.
I love kids.







A woman, madam.






































It's hard for a woman to raise a child alone.




















































































No, it's a serious job.






















Roland, we're not kids.
Come on, let's be friends.









Maybe if you really love me...






















Never have to argue with the kids.






















































































Goodbye, darling.



























































What are you going to do with this baby?
Sinetsu, take the baby and leave it somewhere.







Six people, including a child.
The baby?













But a craftsman can't do a peasant's job.








I hope she doesn't believe the baby's her own.



What would you do with this baby?
Children are the treasures of the nation.








































































































































Because my friend and you were... preparing to get married.

My friend died in an air raid.

You must be lonely without your friend.







But it's very expensive, so I can't buy it.
My friend sells used furniture.




















Please be my friend, Akiko.
I hope we'll be good friends.































People like her need friends.



































My mother has to go to work.















































We have to help each other to survive.



We have to help each other and... not lose in competition to normal people.









































Do you like kids?

Should we have children?

I'd like to have children.

Please let us have one baby.
What will you do if the child is born deaf?

I'm sure our baby will hear.

One child, even people, how can we... grow up as well as normal people.

At 2:30 p.m. today, General McArthur... made the following statement.





























I'm going to have a baby.


Having a baby isn't right.
Before you got married, you didn't promise... not to have a baby?



Don't give up the baby.



Even normal parents have a hard time raising normal children.


Don't give birth to a baby.



...to have a baby.
Can I have a baby?


The baby's ears?

Baby!



Mom, what happened to the baby's ears?








I killed my baby.

We can have another baby.











The factory where your husband worked burned down last night.
Where were you last night?



































After talking and spending time together, we fell in love.

Isn't the baby here yet?
Yeah, we're gonna have a baby in the fall of this year.
Is that true?
It's true.






You must have a strong, healthy baby.

We can't make ends meet when you're working alone, not after we have a baby.



You must have milk to feed the baby.










It's safer for the baby, too.
I'm gonna have a baby, Mom.




















































































When he gets older, the kids are gonna tease him... 'cause his parents are deaf?



I've got a good job and I'm not gonna be a shoe cleaner anymore.
When our first child died, I wanted to die, too.















































































At least enough work to pay for your food.

I can't work if... I don't have a job.








































Mom, it's a shame I never had a baby.






How nice it would be if children never grew up.

















































I don't like kids who complain about food.















I'll start as a maid tomorrow.

Our neighbor, Ms. Sakurai, helped me find a job.
















When I ask him about school or his friends, he doesn't say anything.



He often fights with children in this neighborhood.














How am I supposed to raise a child like Ichiro?






























Ichiro, friends are the most important thing in life.
Bad boy like you doesn't have friends.
I have a lot of friends!
I've never even seen you with one friend.
You'd play at their house, and they'd come to us if you were friends.
I want to meet your friends.
I don't want any friends!























































































































When we got married, we swore we'd help each other and live happily together.


We should help each other... not lose in competition with normal people.


Good evening.




Here's the pay for the last job.









You have to find a job with another tailor.
Easy for you to say, but... work takes a long time.
Mom's doing a great job for a small price.























Her job is always neat.

















Good evening.
Good evening.










































I didn't know your friends were here.





You wanted me to bring my friends.

































A woman?















She took the baby in the air raids.
What happened to the baby?























































You can cut us out of your life, but you will always be my dear daughter.




There are couples who can't do without each other in life, while others live carelessly alone.


































Our work, of course, is not finished.

















































Honey...


































You brought home a turtle for the baby, but it's gone.






















But truth be told, it would be much better if... the mother and father weren't deaf.





































He was married to his job, writing songs.





















Yeah, well, that's the problem, isn't it?








Yeah... but Roger never finishes work before 5:00.





























At least they've drawn attention to each other.






































Perdita, darling, how are you feeling?
Oh, of course, darling.





Roger, honey, it's time for tea.





Church, first the melody, my darling.


















- Anita, darling!


















All I love in the world is this, darling.


But is there a woman in this world who doesn't love them?






Then it turns out you've got your little spotty friends, too.





































































































Tell me how much you want for everyone, my dear.












































My dear, you were incredible.




Perdy, darling?

























































Speaking of champions, friends,








Kids, don't take any time.


























I've been assigned this case, so let's get to work.












Good evening, madam.




































































You don't get any shillings until you do your job.




















Anita, darling.






















- I don't know, darling.
I really don't know.











We'll have to send a word tonight when we get to the park for a walk.










































































































































































































It's gonna be hard on you and your job.































































































































































































































































































But it's true, sir.


























Come on, kids, don't be too late.




























Really, Dad?

[ Perdy] Shh, kids.
Kids, don't make noise.












And keep your eyes on the road!




























- Yes, darling.














































































Kids, move.













- That's the truth.

- Kids, please don't fight.












- Mom, is it really okay?




















































































Yeah, what's true is true.






















































































































































I see you're chasing a fragile woman.































You're the woman who ran over the bridge.









































You owe your life to that woman.




























































































I'm a man... and you're a woman.






How do I know it's true?



























I don't have any friends among ninjas.



So you know a woman named Ai?
I don't know such a woman.


































And there was a dead woman in the tunnel.







It is now your duty to perform the work of your sister as well.


























































Now that I've become an orphan, I've come to Osaka to find a job and start a new life.


















































































Find a woman named Ai from the Hayata-but-all group and grab her.










Yeah, really.


































It's about a woman named Ai.


Is that true?








If you're telling the truth, I'd give my life to save her.

A friend or an enemy?
















































Put the woman in the chest and load it with the rest.















Are you going to betray your friends?








































































































If we lose each other, let's meet somewhere on the bridge.
Where we met each other the first time.








I'll leave the castle and become a simple woman with no relationship with Kato's family.











Although I'm only a woman, if I could see, I fought for our prince.




































Is that true?
































You may pretend to be ignorant, but I know the truth.











You took the lives of 50 men and women acting on my orders.






































































































































































Women!


















After three years on the cyno deck, I won't be held in front of London tonight.





But, Captain, we haven't seen a woman in six months!





































































































































































































































































































































































































We'll continue the class tonight on yute.











I'll see you on the yute tonight, love.













































- Women, get on deck!









































































































































It's worth more than money.



My mother was a beautiful woman.





































































































The doctor said she'd be conscious in a few hours.































You were unconscious, darling, but the doctor said you'd be fine when you got some rest.












The doctor said she might have lost her memory.
The doctor has prescribed peace of mind for you, Lady Margaret.










Our doctor hopes that when the effects of the blow come to pass, you'll all remember.
































































































Tonight, Captain, before I do business, I insist on giving you pleasure.
Lady Margaret is the most wonderful and charming woman in the world.



Judge yourself, my friend.

































































































































Shake out your guns tonight, Bonnet.

Cannons are gonna break tonight.





Your self-proclaimed King of the Ocean brought all his friends.




















Your friend just arrived, Captain Morgan.

























































Perhaps Major Fielding's voice at the trial was so loud that it silenced the truth, and my own common sense.

























































Meet him at 10:00 p.m.


















The doctor was sure the count wouldn't live until morning.






























































































































It would attract a lot of viewers every night.
Micheline, darling, you're a genius!





























So, darling Guillaume, how's the stash?

No mention. True, the works of my famous colleague Jérôme de Saint-Makul have been found.

Keep it up, my friend, keep it up!





















Monsieur Bernard-Senvalu doesn't like the dynamics in the chapel. He doesn't want to be disturbed during his work.
















We don't really talk to each other.












Looks like we're looking at each other now, like we have completely different interests.











































































Calm down, my friends... don't fight over the bills.










































And there wasn't a bad dream... where the door opened... and a man was killed in front of the woman who was hit.















































Really, no sorcery?









Ghost's a lot more interesting than a drifter, isn't it?























































































- Really?





























Good evening, madam.








My friends, I present to you the soul and heart of this enterprise.


























































































Really? My dear cousin...

Don't go, my dear Guillaume.

















He's not a kid anymore.

















WORK OF THE film critique prize of the Venice Film Festival 1961

Milan is a place where you can find a job.
















You're not a kid.









If you get accepted, you'll have a job for the rest of your life.










































































































If we pass the exam, we're hired.























Please hand over your work.
Please give me your job.





































































If I get a job, my father and I will buy a motorcycle.















It's my first job.

But at the same time, you've got a solid job for the rest of your life.



















































Do it loudly after the doctor.












Have you had to lose your job because of excessive drinking?


































































- If we get hired.






























































































































I could study tonight.










Your kids have grown up, haven't they?




































Dear Don Luigi... would you lend me a cigarette?
How's it going, dear friend?

























I really don't.

Old friend of our poor uncle.



















If they were my kids, I'd be wash their sides.


































































































They're having a New Year's Eve.

We'll be among friends and colleagues.


















It's a job thing, isn't it?


Now these kids are always right.

Good evening.

















- Have a nice evening.








Good evening.


- Really?



This evening will be unforgettable.













Good evening.


It's New Year's Eve.















Friends, you can sing that sad song.








My friends, listen to me and I'll explain everything to you.






























Friends, we finished the old year.


















































I'll visit a friend. Old friend.

Dear Meryl, it's good to see you!












































Good afternoon, Doctor.













Really. And it was really nice. I'm being frank.


















Doctor, you've been through the kitchen again.























- "Dr. Füme Prospect."





























It's over, let's get to work.



Old people, like kids, change fast.


















As for friends...
Friends don't like to be loyal. They're afraid of losing their face.
Well, my friends were content to accuse me of being ambitious and intransigent. And I'm proud of it.

































































- What a night!









Beautiful evening, Mr. Prime Minister.












And on Monday night, after the stock market closes, we'll announce.



























Do you know my friend Mulsten, Director of Paris France?









Good evening.






















...by our neighbours and friends.




























- Six o'clock.
































































































I'll check with my friends.


















































































































Let's skip TV. Is it true that the President of France wishes to offer you the presidency of the Council of Ministers?














































































"If you're a real friend, help!"





































































Agriculture is the product of many generations of hard work.


















































































Kids left in the middle of nowhere.





























































It's true.





How do you combine the position of a Catholic democrat with that of a lawyer at a Jewish bank?


































True, the profits are sometimes small and the costs are considerable.









Together with Mr. Shalamon's friends, you will build Europe's capital, not labor,



















































































































































Good evening.







































































Dr. Füme?






















































































Already at work, Mayran?






Another women's magazine conducting a survey on the role of women in the lives of famous men. Attached is the questionnaire :






























Why do you say that? Aren't we friends?














Kids, stay back!













Kids! Quiet!


















































Come on, kids, let's get out of here!







I've got two kids on my hump.




But he only drinks a mountain from morning to evening.
































But it's true.



















I was a friend of this family long before you got here through marriage.





























































































































Mrs. Ishii, your children are very disobedient.

They're still kids.
































I'm not worried about the kids.
































My heart cannot conquer a woman.






















Yoichi, did you buy Jiro a woman?






















My dear ladies and gentlemen. I see you're having a good time.













































My kids are waiting for me. - Forget about the kids!








- Such a beautiful woman...


So it's true.












Before that, you worked for the headmaster in the kitchen and carried water because you couldn't find a better job!






















Tell the truth!



























































In the middle of the night, you're going to see this woman.


































































There's nothing for kids to do here.





The baby died.












They're responsible for the death of the child.





















Again from morning to evening in a field on karake?

























































































































I'll tell you, Osama, your baby.















Shit. I'm telling the truth!








Matsu's telling the truth.






I was... I was really gonna marry your sister.











































Really?























Really?







Really?










































Right, we can't trust each other.







The girls and the kids need to figure this out.







































































































































- Why do women always decide?






















































































- She was told almost the whole truth.














Honey...





I hate women!




























































We were gonna have a good night, and instead everyone's gonna cry!





































My beloved master, with whom I played as a child, is now busy with other women.






























































































Like lost kids in the woods at night.


And you can only rely on one another.








Am I really little, or did the disease make me a child?












































































































- Is it really incurable?






























If you had a normal wife who gave birth to children... would bring you coffee to bed...





























































































































I didn't see it coming. I'm telling the truth.







































































Have you written one word of truth in your entire life?


Your half-truth is so graceful that sometimes it's true.


























It was night, it was dark in the valley.










































- Karin, darling...






































































































Dear Karin, it all seems to you!



Martin, darling...


































































The jury of the Berlin Film Festival awarded the first prize to "Woman is Woman."











♪ I'm waiting for the baby ♪



























Hey, kids.
















The birth of a child is not beyond the mountains."




















People usually admire the tower Eiffel built, but I prefer the adorable woman Angela.


























- Really?
- It worked for Sheri's baby.














































It's weird, isn't it?














For example, "the birth of a child"






















































































I want a baby.










You know, if we had a kid, we'd get married right away.






















Why do women always suffer?
Women are the cause of all suffering.
Or "the woman is the reason..."










I think crying women are ugly.



There's nothing more beautiful than a crying woman.
We have to pay no attention to women who aren't crying.
Modern women are stupid... when they try to rule out...

A woman who can't cry is stupid.
These modern-day women are trying to imitate men.








- I want a baby.





I want a baby in 24 hours.














- I want a baby. - I...

















What about the baby?


















- That I want a baby.


- What about the pregnant woman?







You can't act like a woman, you're Emile.







HOW THEY LOVE OTHERS,
















Come on, make up your mind." Last breath on TV tonight.



Will you make a baby for the missus here?

For a woman you never knew.





















Yeah, men are as curious as women.





- With suspicious women.





















This is offset by the fact that all women are slippery.







Women always think they're victims.


















- It's your friend's choice.




























Yeah, I agree, honey, but I think...

































When I asked you for a baby.














































- Really?








He needs girls to work in Marseilles.












































The letter that begins with "Dear POL" is in an envelope for Pierre, and vice versa.



So she says, "Dear, you'll get the letter.




































Yeah, it's true.
I don't know where the truth is.




- And now the truth.




The truth is different from the lie.


























He wrote to pregnant women:
"Send me 10 francs, and I'll predict your baby's pop.














































♪ And my friends are gonna come to me ♪ ♪ 'Cause the horror they're gonna hear ♪












♪ Be the old girl again ♪ ♪ Fun, darling, darling ♪
















































- I want a baby.







I want a baby.





I want a baby.








Is it stupid to want to have a baby?





I want a baby.

Do you want to sleep with Mademoiselle to give her a baby?

































Tell me the truth.



It's true.






























- You're gonna make me a baby and...










Don't judge me because I'm a woman.















































To tell the truth, no.












It's true!












































Really?






















Is it true you have a son?


So it's true?
Yeah, really.


You have to take care of this kid.

A humble woman.
































It's a conversation between two women.











Go back to your job.













We'll say goodbye tonight.































































































Last night, you passed out.



























































You're disgusting to me, even if you're telling the truth.






























I'll bring some meat tonight.



















































It's too much to sit here and the kids get pissed off.
























































Men on the one hand, women on the other.



































Really?







































- Good evening!
- Good evening, señorita!


































Trust me, you won't have a lack of work.











I'll take you to the doctor.












Calm down, friends.





























It's stupid to live under the same roof and not know anything about each other.








I don't need a blessing to live with a woman.

























I can warn the doctor!






Shut your mouth! Talk nicely in front of our saintly defender, a young, decent woman.

Do you have any other children?
























































































The doctor told me it was gonna be a long time.


God punished me for being with a woman on a very windy day.




- It's true.



"Let them get infected, these women!"














































Tonight, but I'll be back tomorrow or the day after.



























Why do people leave each other?




























































Damn baby!















































She was the woman of the guy who hanged himself.









That must be awfully expensive!

















We can't hear each other!






And some women... pass by and we smell their perfume.



















































































































































































Will you play, dear sister?

















Friends, he came to me, not me.










- What, honey?



Oh, honey.


Oh, honey.













































































Yeah, he's gonna take care of that woman. That's what she told me.
- What woman?
- A woman from the Salvation Army.














It's true, isn't it?



























- Good night, darling.



























































































Oh, honey.





























































- Do you want to leave me out of work?












































Is it true, He?




When you're looking for an assassin, you have to act quickly... especially when children are around... you have to block the moves quickly.













































































































































































































Just Charles, my sister Nan, and the other kids.
Other kids?









































































































Why are you and all these kids... why are you helping me?






























































































Really, of course.




































Yeah, really.





You see, people... all the time, babies are born.









And the kids who steal church goods?







































Can you see the other kids?




















































- Who's the kid?




It's just a kid.














Honey, you broke up...












































For who? What did you say, darling?







































Listen to me... you're good kids. And it's gonna be okay.










































- There's a lot of other kids out there.































- Come on, darling.
























Today's kids are crazy.
And it's not just the kids.








They'll cut each other until the silk is soaked in blood.















































































































































































































































It's good if they kill each other. I'm sorry they got in the way.



























































He won't be notified until tonight.














Really?







It's dangerous and dirty work.






- The undertaker's celebrating the start of work?




























We were assigned to a very dangerous job yesterday, for example. Shut up!
















































































































































Come on. What about the woman in a safe place?
What woman?
Tacoimon's woman.










































- Where's the woman?






Give the woman back!
What? What woman?











You're gonna have a lot of work to do.































































Do you really know where the woman is?






Tell me, where's the woman?





































Only a woman prevented me from doing it!






























































































































































These are his friends from the club.



...and now they're back to their favorite subject, women.

In their inflammated imagination, women took mythical shapes.



True, progress is rather slow.

And so, my dear parishioners and beloved fellow citizens,..



















































Fefe, you love me, don't you?






















































Red hair is so elegant, isn't it?

















- It's hot today, isn't it?


























































































































But when I rephrase the words of the Holy Book, I will say, "Looking at a woman with desire,...................
So when Marianina Taranova was approaching the tragic end of the journey, sitting on a train that was inexorably moving forward,....................................................................................
...the symbol of the chastity of our women, and of the hand on the belly, which the Lord has laid upon the sweet torment of motherhood. And the train was moving forward like an endless nightmare.













Murder of a spouse, children or close relatives, committed in a state of passion against the honour of the perpetrator, shall be punishable by 3 to 7 years &apos; imprisonment.

































It's a little blowy, isn't it?






































His name was even knocked out on the memorial by the dead, but then it was erased.









Hello, darling!











































- Beautiful, isn't it?




Hello, darling!



Bye, darling!






































"...if we can't love each other, no one will replace you."









Carmelo Patane began work at 10 a.m. on July 12th.


Well, I'm gonna change for work, will you?





















Your wife is cheating on you! Friend."








We're friends, Carmelo.






















The doctor says this migraine could be chronic.







It's so hot today. It's really chilly here.









































Professor, how's the job going?





















Oh, you poor girl, he's married, he's got three kids!







Ferdinando is married, he has three children.


































We're so lonely without each other!









































































"The murder of a spouse, children or relatives, "did in a state of passion for insult..."








Dr. Talamone was a big gossip.

Friends at the club decided to express their sympathy to me at first.














It has been historically proven that you too have here, in the beautiful south, the time has come to reflect on the eternal problem of the emancipation of a woman.......................................... which our Chinese brothers have......................................











































But Chicha Motano, with his mysterious friends, might be able to help me. But it is clear that the initiative must come from it.
And to tell you the truth, today I thought he wanted to do it.
"Dear Dad and Mom, today I passed the Latin exam, "and I passed well."
"Dear Mom and Dad."





























We turned to our faithful friends.































An irresponsible, alcoholic, a woman's man. He must have a lot of debts and illegitimate children.


Her kids weren't in court because of their young age, but he showed them pictures.

Maybe because in Italy, children...
Well, kids are always kids.









































































I quit my job.

It's not a baby anymore.




Then you shouldn't have worked as a kid.

To die as a child is bad luck.








































































- Get down, I have to go to work.
What job?



- Yeah, I'm a doctor.












- Yeah, the kids found them on the wall.























Why aren't you at work this morning?








































































Why should 45-year-old men only be with 45-year-old women?






No, no, don't wait for a model, naked woman.

















- My friend, the plumber.






















- I'm gonna lose my job.


















Doctor!

- Doctor, I'm scared!





Doctor!
I want you to tell me... you know, you've studied a lot and... Doctor!



- No, no, Doctor!








- Thank you, Doctor.


























































I have a husband, children.





















I haven't seen you in a while... - Take the baby.























You want me to quit my job naturally.


















































I quit my job.


I left work two months ago.























You think I wasn't looking for another job?

Cashier's job.





But get back to work!

























Someone stabbed his wife, six kids, then killed himself.















I'm a welder, my friend.









































































You were at work?
























































































Not a lot of work, a lot of sleep.














A job he didn't like and a family that didn't love him.





Forced labour!

It's true.







































- It's okay. A friend of one...






- Really, to quit your job?


























































































Work for the loners.















Technical part of the work.
















I beg your pardon, except for this... technical job, who else is to be paid?











































































































You'll find a woman.


































































I'm going back to work tomorrow.

Tonight, I'd give anything to be somewhere else.




They say you need a job. They say jobless is boring.







Work is said to keep you from thinking, distracting you from thinking.






















































































































- Yes, my dear sister. Your opinion is very important to me.















- There's a woman coming.




























- Go, my dear!


























































































































-Macist, darling, they've ruined me.







- Maciste, darling.
























































































- My friend.








- You're not my friend.
- I'm not your friend?

- No, you're not my friend.






























































































- I hear you're looking for young people for work.

- No, I don't have a job for you.













- My friends, we see a future gladiator here.



































































































- But this time, I'm gonna find out the truth.

































































































- Dear friend, what's the problem?





































































































- No, that's not true.










- Otherwise, I'll tell everyone the truth.





































- Why did you keep the truth from her?



































































































Dear Bela, you don't care about snowballs, eclipse. You don't want to stay home.



















Goodbye, Stanka, with God, children!
What time is it, kids?



























































- Really, isn't it?














Friends would laugh.











































































































Before you go to your place of work,





































































































Good evening!




And two other couples were reporting, and the work was enough.


















































Dear Dutchman... it's stupid to start a letter like this.













Dear Dutchman, remember Robinson?





I never imagined what this job was.
































Our brother really is a waste! You don't have to write, you don't have to write. What can I say?






























You know, I'm scared for the kids.

You sent us to Melenian for the summer, Father. There's good air, kids on vacation.








And you told the kids Mom ate rabid meat.
























- That darling, on the edge of the village.





























She's a good woman.







But it's a long night in the winter.























Sucked it, dear Bela.








































It was nice, especially in the evening.




































































- One woman in black. The fisherman no longer lives...






































Among the worlds that coexist within the marvellous work of creation............................................................................................













May the Queen, by her power, punish all good children.






Kidnapper!

Taking orders to kidnap naughty kids. The price of the bag is paid by the employer.




































Isn't that right, Ludoed?
























I sentence these children and all the other villagers to be enchanted by my mighty, evil power!




















































Oh, my God, these kids are so hard on you!






















Give us some water, good woman.







































































You ate so many kids and even their parents. ...but I couldn't eat the monsters, and that's another thing you've lost your appetite for, and that's why you're here.













We're Siamese twins. We've got our backs on each other.













Here you go, dear Babike.



No, that's not true! That can't be true!






Thank you, thank you very much, my dear Two of Three.




















































Hello, children! You must be very tired coming here.















Mrs. Fairy, can you make me as big as my friends?











































































They're the naughty kids!
































First, women and children.






























































Also, children must always respect and obey the elders.


























This Kid Kidnapper is an idiot!

























Oh, there's a lot of kids here!

How many children did he kidnap?
They're kids who didn't listen to their moms and dads!


Kidnapper!


























- Really?



































Goodbye, my dear!










Is it true that this flea is a millionaire?















You'll be in very good hands, my dear!
You treat her like a child of your own.















































I hope we can save our friends.



































































































It's you, my little, loyal friend!


































Come on, darling. My sister wants to meet you.







































Take your time, children.................................................................................................

You have to go back and help Red Riding Hood and her friends. Because they're in danger.






























So know it! Your friends are about to die! But so are you!

















Oh, Mommy, darling! I'm hurt! I'm almost crushed!













We owe this victory to you too, dear children!













































































































Dear Fairy Morning Zari, make sure she's no longer a witch!





























































































So, tonight's 9:00 p.m.?








































Not at all. That's my type of woman.








What did you do to tell the truth?










































You're already late. Take a bath tonight.

























See you tonight.
See you tonight.





























All right, I'll come by tonight.
I don't think Sophie's gonna be home tonight.









Is she expecting a baby?

































































I'm meeting him tonight.



































I have a job. - What do you want?




















No, I have a job. I can't.























Wow, they're really long, your nails!



Because it's true.










Then why did you tell me it was true?













































The one who should meet a woman when she falls in love with him?






















Okay, my dear Sebastian. I agree.



























































































- Friends.




















Oh, good evening, beautiful lady!












Sebastian, friend! I like you!









Where's the equipment? - At the store, my dear!











I've got work to do, I'm already late. And we've got our whole lives ahead of us.































































Let's get to work!










































I'm sure I've gone straight to work.


















- What about your job?





You've got a job, okay. What about me?































































































Really? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,













Sebastian was always my friend!


















See you tonight.
- See you tonight!
Good evening, Juliette.





Then let's not stay here all night.






































Wow! That's a good night, huh?

















































"Wow, my friend calls me!



















"Goodbye, dear Juliette..."




"Goodbye, dear Juliette! I'm not interested in your stories!"

















So I say, "Goodbye, my dear Juliette,


Goodbye, dear Juliette! I'm not interested in any of these stories!









It's not a dress, it's a suit. That's good, isn't it?






































You think he told us "Good evening"?

























































But I'm gonna keep an eye on him tonight!


















































But I swear to you, it's true.













I lied, it's true.













Juliette, baby, I've got a lot of work to do.





























And the woman who gave you the money that night in Pigal Square?






















You're his friend, tell him.










































































By the way, we're seeing each other again tonight.




Only I'm a grumpy old man, and I've got a lot of work to do.






I'll remember how much you've said to me since last night that you don't believe a word you say!
You must be awfully tired by tonight, aren't you?






























What a child!
If you were really in love with me, you'd be ashamed!



































































You witch! I see you tonight:



































Yesterday's young woman. Ooh!










But it's okay now. I got him a temporary job.

















































Let's go out tonight!



















By the way, what happened to that beautiful fool that night?
Someone, darling?















































































I know you had a fight with Sophie tonight. And that you decided not to see me again.















I swear to you, it's true.






























The story began in Paris at 8 p.m. on October 26, 1961, the day of the general strike.




























It happens to everyone, doesn't it?





























































I was there the day before with my wife and friends from Italy...









The next day, around 8:00 p.m.,


























There was a woman.


































The doctors warned that because of the impact... you might have completely or partially forgotten the details of what happened.











Yeah, about that woman...


I'm pretty sure a woman and a man said something to each other.



















I'm going to Playboy tonight.





























































No, it's the press secretary's job.








































I left a child without a heart, without a face, blind and deaf, lying naked somewhere out there in a void...

























But, my dear madam, I don't want him to think.






















Tonight... and every night until the end of the Fifth Republic... this chair will be electrified... With the charms of dolls... from Paris.




- Good evening, Commissioner!








Mr. Ivan only had friends here.

















Michelle, Malterreer is doing his job.






















































Your friends were arrested a week ago... thanks to information we received from other sources.





















































You really think Patrice de Laborde has a case with the police?



































































































Today he walked the same way, having the same anxiety, the same trembling in the whole body.









































I'll just tell the truth, that's all.
The truth doesn't exist, Michelle.








I really didn't know his name.

































































Good evening, Monsieur Jussieu.
Good evening.



























































































I saw your performance tonight.
































































































































The films you're making are only good for 8-year-olds... if they're going to the movies.




























And when the city is on fire and the innocent kill each other...




Last night, Monsieur Jussieu met Eleanor.










Eddie Sulinas, her friend.

























































You went to Playboy last night.
























Two counter-questions canceling each other.














Last night, I went back to Playboy.









































- Someday our children...
- Our children have no rights other than the right to be spoiled.


















Without face and heart, child abandoned by me in a huge house, after the horrors of... hunger,



You really think so?













































Laborde was a friend of Ivan's.
He's getting word over the phone that something's happened to his friend.




















- Tomorrow night you'll be dead.

- Tomorrow night you'll be dead.

So, tomorrow night, I think I'm gonna be...























And I know that before you came here, you asked your friends for permission.



- Go and tell your friends now!
- What friends?



















































Because it's true.



I love women, and it's natural...




































































- Don't bother, darling, I already know.


















I'm gonna meet this Germon, and then I'm gonna go see your friend Malterre.






















































Your friend Laborde is threatening me, trying to compromise me.










The truth about Ivan's death.








































































Are your friends looking forward to it?































Mr. Jussieu, I'd rather not say this, but I have to tell you the truth.




















Mind your own business, Commissioner, and don't ask me to do someone else's job.





































































- Honey, I don't have the will, please!




























































Bye, darling.





- Sorry, honey.












I didn't know exactly what to say, but... but I told him the truth that I didn't like it.













- Oh, Dad! - It's true!



To stop the flood, we need work and strength.














- How's your social work going?













Isn't that right, darling?






We went crazy last night, didn't we?













How do you like that, darling? Now he'll have someone to talk to.








I wish you had an exciting job.




All summer, we like it here, don't we, darling?


- Something wrong, darling?






We're gonna be friends, right?
I guess you're already friends.

- She's something, isn't she?

Beautiful woman, Adam!




































































But you have to look good, don't you?







I'm not forcing him to go, am I, Joey? No, Mom.











I know because I can read it on your faces. Stay strong, my children.







































An organization that tells people the truth.









They only have two good friends. The shortest path to weakening the country and its total destabilization.






















Let me run the black governor and the black doctors take your kids?
It's true if they find time for it.






































Nothing sheriff, good citizens having fun tonight, that's all.





































































Said he had business tonight and that you might need company.








I don't think you're a friend, Mr. Kramer.




That I'm not a friend.


























You don't want to talk about politics, do you?



























































Our friend, Mr. Shepman, offered to get me out of prison, but I refused.


































I haven't told anyone about this, but I think you're a friend, Adam.


But I fell in love and knew she was a good woman, thought I could help her,







But I can't believe Mrs. Griffin is one of these women, you know?














Sam, I'm making myself say this because it's true! Liar!
Sam, I'm telling the truth, I'm not lying.



That's why you did us a big favor, man!


































Your boy and the rest of the kids have to go to school. It's the most important thing!

Work, home, maybe even family. Isn't that enough for you?

























I'm sorry, darling.







You better go home, honey, it's late.


I'm sorry, darling.








I'm gonna try really hard, darling.

I love you, darling.
















































































































I thought very well, because if you tell us the truth, you have nothing to fear, but if you lie to us... you'll have problems you never dreamed of.































The thing is, she was forced by a friend, Mr. Kramer.



This guy's crazy, I'm telling you! Is it true, girl?

Now you, good people, probably tell yourself that you have to take this boy and take him to prison to see how justice is done, but let's see the truth.


But there's no truth here either, you started losing those people's trust as soon as you got it.



Tell them the truth! Come on! Tell them the truth!


Griffin, you wanted to fool these people, didn't you? If that's true, you were wrong!











I assume your work in this town is over?

















































So if the job was a specialty...

If you want, I'll call the factory, and I'll call work tomorrow.






























































































































- And no kids?






































































There's nothing like swimming tonight.
































Why? Is it bad to get chilled tonight?















No, really, at all, you're not like the others.







































































































































Lang, can you tell me the truth? - Well, I can.
Just the truth.



- Just the truth.




































Come in, darling.
Well, be a friend.





Don't get in the way!














































































I'm telling the truth.












- Just bring it tonight.
































































I'm here about the job.













Hello, friend.






























- Well, maybe work trouble.






















So, how's work going?
What's with the job?


















A lot of work, that's the reason.











































Precise work










We got it. They remember the work of their hands.







So, there's no job for a locksmith?





















Natasha, I told you the truth.



























































































- What do you think, dear friend?






No, really.











































































































































Uh, it's worth telling the truth.



















































































But, to tell you the truth, there's not much to know.











































































Actually, yes, it's true.










































It's true.

























A man and a woman like that?
One man and one woman.

































"She's a woman. No one else, like a woman," he repeated.







Are you here, darling?


Good evening.

Don't be a kid.

I don't know about tomorrow, but it's definitely not tonight.



Have a nice evening, Renzo.







He only loved one woman, the one he could be close to, and that woman was his mother.


- I went out with the engineer's kids. - Oh, right?

























Renzo is your friend, not mine.


Who are these new friends?














Right, but even the kids look old.





No, darling.


No, darling.
































































































































































































































Son of a bitch!"








































- I told you the truth.



































It's true, sir.

































And it had to be done very quickly, putting the image of another woman between her and her mother.




- You're leaving tonight, too?





































- He's a friend.
How could you bring a child into my house?









For many years, he has not yet learned the same experience, and his soul will be tormented by the thought and bitter feeling that he has never been able to master a woman.






I want you to stop treating me like a child.









































- Peter, darling.


























Okay, isn't it?




















































































































We'll talk about everything tonight.














































































































































































































































































Anyway, he did good, didn't he?

























































- But listen, darling...























































































































































































































































It's funny being a kid, but...










We're just doing our job: supporting the talents we find.




So, at least for a while, he needs his friends around, the people he's been living with, working and playing for the last four years.




























The one who's alive always shows up, and Firmino Bispo dos Santos, son of this beautiful land, won't forget old friends.



Leave him alone, friends.
















Let's have a drink, folks, today I'm paying for vodka.


























































It's like you got a job.







































- The one who beats his hands is a woman.





































It's not that a woman is treated badly.


















- Let go of me, woman!






































Here's the job right in front of the door.
Was that your job?







If he liked women, maybe I wouldn't be so abandoned now.



















































I miss cases, as one friend says.



















The job was in bed.


Than being a dog by day and a woman by night, I prefer to eat fish here.















The poor man's right is a job.





















- It's like when I was a kid.



Barravento. Barravento killed a lot of old people and kids.


















No one saw him with people in the evenings.






























The old man didn't have children. He was always afraid of getting married.



All the women ran away.

Now that we don't have a network, he wants to check the truth.















































And Aruan? He's never gonna have a woman?



He's only a friend of Aruan's.













- The woman close to him dies.











































He's a man, like everyone else, he likes women, and he doesn't rule the sea.

























































































Are you really not afraid of Malisho?


- Good evening, Dominic.
- Good evening, Louison.





















































































- Your truth.

























It's a great day, friends.



















Excellent, my friend!

























































































































































































































































































































































A woman and a thief.
Don't say anything against women.















































































































































The carpet's good, isn't it?
































































He owes you his life. It's the best gift from a woman.

This woman is truly a saint.



Life is more expensive than waving a hat.





































In turn, dear girls.








































- They're obsessed with women.














































Even more than one with a woman.















About that woman.


Why do we think of other women and remain faithful to one?




























































































The terms of my friend's release.














































































































No, honey, I'm right behind you.











He knows how to charm women.










You're under a woman now.

























I'll be alone on the road to Monval tonight.






This woman isn't for you.

With regard to women, no one knows.



















Good news, friends!












Dance, my friends!


As you wish, darling.











Haven't we lost enough because of a woman?







He's crawling over a woman.






























Fairy tales for the kids!






Why quit their job? I don't know.



















































How's your dear guest?


Really?



























































Dear friend, I have two things to do for you.































Dear Olsen!
























Dear friend, but it's like a fairy tale.





















Don't be afraid, this is my friend Olsen.



















































































































- He's an old friend of mine.


















Another old friend? I don't know.
Honey, go to your father.




























































Your friend isn't here yet?































































































































































Really?




















































































































Do you have any reliable friends in town?





































































































I went looking for a job.

- Looking for a job.

At five, I had a meeting with two priests who were supposed to give me a letter of recommendation to work.























































I'm just a kid! I'm a kid!

I'm a kid! Baby!
































My older brother, a friend of the priest, immediately fell in love with me.

- So you got a job.















I think I saw some woman.

























I was told you had a woman.






















- The new car is beautiful, isn't it?

I really can't take you for a ride.





































































Money, expensive clothes! Clothes!






















I need to see my friends!
Do your friends feed you? Forget it!



























Soraya, don't be a kid.







































































There was a woman and other guys.



















Did you pass through Paolino Park last night?


















I was having fun looking at cars and people coming out of the tram and the kids and the girls.






































See, we finally understand each other.


You walked down from the river, from where the woman was killed.























I always wander in the evenings.




That night, I snuck into Paolino Park to the bridge.



















They passed right next to the woman.

I don't know anything about this woman!





I'd know. They play pool every night.






Yeah, we saw this woman, but we didn't talk to her.




You were seen. You and your friend, like you've been hanging out with a woman.
What woman? Hey, what woman?










After work, they eat on Will Shiarra.




























































- They're with us. Our friends.















































If I'd known you'd come with your friends, I'd have made dinner.


































































































































































I'm not, like, a kid.





No, I have a job.
























































































You know I have classes on Friday nights.



Dr. Janz has been talking about her all last night.




















Good evening, Charles. Hello, Doctor.
Well, Terry, honey, I didn't know you were still here.


















Of course I've heard of your work.









I'm sorry, I'm... I'm just probably upset about work.

You can't call it a career as a clerk in a paper factory inventory department. Well...


What happened when I was a kid?






Oh, I know, I know he gave me this job just to please you. Was it hard working with Myers, Charles?







Everyone knew how she got the job.










































Then until tomorrow night...






























































































































































And he always liked to talk about his job.































































Just like last night. Wait. I have a question for you that interests me...










He called me and told me he offered you a new job, and you freaked out again.
It wasn't a job!












































You can already tell us that we've become friends on the phone.

































































It's even hard to call business, really.
















































No problem, booze and romance with women.

He can't handle his work.


































































Children. The kids just broke up.




















































































































Can't he tell the truth?



















- About the new job?
I don't need a job.








































































- Good evening, Charles.























































































- I'm a friend of your uncle's.







Is it true he was stabbed in the chest? Exactly.


Are you a friend of Dr. Janz's?

I'm a friend of Miss Ames's.

































































Do you know where that buddy was? He's Dr. Janz's patient. He was in the office every night at 7:00 p.m.










When he came in that night, you didn't have a watch.




























Not me. Because every night at 7:00, I was in your office.




































The driver, a man whom the police considered to be a maniac murderer responsible for two murders and attempted murder tonight, was identified.












































I expect to hear from you no later than tonight, otherwise...






















If I don't get 300,000. I'll see you tonight.
































































































































What a woman!



















My friends!








- The truth is, you're an awful cheap-ass!










































Isn't that right, buddy?






































































































































- All women think they're ugly.






















- Women are free.




















And his friends are here playing petanc.















































Really!











A woman gives birth spiritually to a man.







No woman's gonna stand up to you.






























We like each other.
























































































































Women!

They like to iron your skin, don't they?


Tell me the truth...
Do you see beauty in women?






My dear... they should... lay eggs.












































And today women are rebelling to become slaves.



















Impressive, isn't it?


































































To tell you the truth, we never talked about it.



You're never gonna leave me alone again?












































































Although, to be honest, it doesn't matter.







































































































- Really?
Really?



























A woman like you!
A woman like you!


Even get a job!













We like each other.


























































































If he fails to find a job, he loses his livelihood and decides that he cannot overcome the hardships of being.



































Is that true?
































































































































































































What I've told you about Motoma Chijiva's fate is pure truth.






































































Motome was a 15-year-old handsome boy, and my daughter, Miho, was an angel's 11-year-old child.

























You know, I've never imagined any of us as gifted military honors, but so far we've done well by raising our children.









I'm making my last request to my old friend.





















Hanshiro, don't you want to deliver a message to your friend Jinnai?







































































































































































































'Cause even a simple man like me can see that you and Miho are made for each other.







































The more desperate we find work, the more dangerous we are. We need to be careful.

If you're less concerned about finding a job, you don't have to answer to anyone or follow anyone's orders.














She's always been a fragile kid, and hard work has been a burden for her... her weak body hasn't been able to handle this hard work.


Work at the construction site.




There's not enough work even for citizens.











































I'll be back by tonight, not later.





I'll be back by tonight.










He promised to be back by tonight.





"I'll be back by tonight. Keep an eye on Kingo."


























































A dying wife, an innocent sick child who needs the help of a doctor.





















































The truth is, I'm just waiting for the moment to join Motoma, Miho and Kingo.
























































































An ex-fukushima clan warrior, Hanshirio Tsugumo, died with the help of a harakiri at 6 p.m.










































Wife, I'm a man of faith and I'm telling the truth. I can see her.











Not a word of truth, Mr Harvey.






































































































- What? - One liar in a night is enough.















































































And he doesn't have a wife or seven children.












































Nice work, daughter! I'm not sure.























There are women and children here.



























































































Look, I've invited you to the most expensive dinner in St. Louis, and I wouldn't mind if you sat still.




























































I love women with character.


There's a woman here, Eggy Clegg.





I've heard that there are 40 men per woman in California.














I offer you an honest job for an honest salary.
















































Is it true, Miss Perscott?




He says he wants an honest job.















It's true.





























You're the most beautiful woman I've ever met.


It's easy for you to carry your children.











A woman needs to hear something solid.








Children.
Kids?






























































"No matter who you are in the states, my friend!"





But where's your friend?





You're an amazing woman, Miss Prescott.





I want to know the truth.
The truth is Cleave and I couldn't live on one love alone.





The only thing you're gonna have to think about is the kids.
















I didn't think I could do that because of a woman.



Nope. A married man must spend the evenings at home.



The married lady has to spend the evenings at home, too.





























"Dear Eve..."



























































The evening of April 6, 1862.








































































































































































Now get back to work!








So, Jethro Stewart, it's your job to hunt, not get them out of work.







They shouldn't see anything but their job, okay?

You forget, Mr. King, my job is buffalo.

















Those two broke their property, came to their village drunk. Going to their women's.




































Just convince them. It's your job, isn't it?






- He and I are friends.










































I just gave them your words, which aren't the fact that they're gonna turn out to be true.







































































Remove the woman and get the locomotive into the depot.
Everyone else, get back to work.


































The sheep destroyed the grass, and it was expensive.










A treasure that was dear to his heart.















































If you're Zeba's children, I am.





Mom was telling the truth, you're really beautiful.

















































































And as a friend, I'm asking you to leave town.





























































































































Really?















- Good evening!
- Good evening, my lord.
Good evening, m'lady.

































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - Good evening.


- Good evening.

You want me to lose my job because of you, don't you?

- Good evening, sir.







Good evening, sir.
Good evening.


- Hey, kids, what are you doing there?
Stop the kids!

- Good evening, sir.











Good evening.




































My children, ever since I promised a reward for any information about your father, people with notes and bottles appear one after the other.





But this time the truth...











- But I told you the truth.




Taking advantage of children is your profession? Isn't that right?








- Monsieur Paganel is our friend.
Kids, I want to tell you something.




My dears, do you think I wouldn't be the first to respond if I had the slightest chance to find your father or someone on his team?



But it's all true!














































































































































































Look, my dear.







































- Really or not?
- Really, Your Grace!




















































































































- It's beautiful, isn't it?























- It's true.





































































































Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Live, my friend!

































































































































































































Oh, my children, I'm so sorry it ended this way.































Explain to me how one ship can sink into ten different places 500 miles apart.













































































And if they want to sell their prisoners more expensive, we have to be ready for it.














Don't be agitated, my dear.












My friend, forget the damn note.


































































- We're getting paid, my dear.







































- It's okay, my dear.














































































































- That's great! Really?


























































































































































Parents bring their children there to show the landing planes.
That's Sunday, the kid whose story we were supposed to tell-- the frozen sun, the way it stands on the edge of the lookout, and the face of the woman.





An unexpected noise, a gesture by a woman, eaten by a body, and the screams of a crowd on a platform covered with fear.




































Real kids.

















When he comes back from his trance, a woman disappears.
























The truth is too fantastic to believe in.












































More than this peaceful future, he wanted to be returned to the world of his childhood, and to the woman who might have been waiting for him.
Once again, the main site in Orley, midday of this warm pre-war Sunday, where he wasn't allowed to stay, he couldn't really figure out if he was a child, too, he was supposed to be there, looking at planes.



And that's the moment he's only got, and he's watching him as a kid.




































































































































The convoy will arrive in Port Said tomorrow evening.





























































Really?









































He was my friend.







Your "friend" was a hazimi from Beni-Salem.











My name is for my friends.
There are no murderers among my friends.
















































































































































































Your book is telling the truth.










































































































It's true, Lawrence.



























































































































































































- A friend of Prince Faisal's.







Maybe tomorrow I'll let the Turks buy you, Faisal's friends.


























































You embarrass me like a woman.
We're fools, friends.



































































































You're taking the kids with you?

















































































































































Go back... and keep working.























































































































Will you really give him the artillery, sir?










Sorry, man.























































































































Nice friends of yours.


































It's for the kids.


































































Hide, friend.






























































Friends, who's gonna walk with me on the water?











Tonight, I'm going to have an uprising in Deraa without any proof.








































































I thought it was true.


















I'll go back to Allenby and ask for a job that anyone can handle.








































- No, really.
















You really don't know?



















Whoever's lying like me is just hiding the truth.
But a liar half forgets where the truth is.
The truth is, I'm just a normal person.

And I need a regular job.


































- Really.











































































































































































Lawrence, this was ripped off last night in Damascus.

















































It's true, Auda.


































We'll hear complaints tonight.
Tonight.



































- Is he your friend?





























My friend Lawrence... if you'll allow me to call you that.
"My friend Lawrence."






































































































I'm really winning.


You really don't remember me?


















All my friends always throw their butts in their glasses.







































































I have great friends; they'll keep you company.









Your friends, you'll tell them...



My friends gave me a few addresses in Ramsdale where they rented their apartment for the summer.





















































We were going to visit so many different countries, but he was busy working here.







It's hard for a woman to be attractive, to be alone.











































It's bedtime, darling.











Hello, darling.

Good evening, Mrs. Hayes.







I think tonight's the night.









John, could you not be a lawyer at least one night a week?













Honey!
















She's becoming a mature young lady, isn't she?










































































- Well, Gene, maybe we should...
























My dear darling, darling, naive man.













































You know, I'm a very emotional woman, very emotional.

- No, I'm not afraid, really.





Honey...




We had a lovely evening.


















Darling, bring it upstairs.






























It was a tedious night.



Good night, and thank you for a lovely evening.









Last night...



















































































































In fact, Mona disappeared last night from that party and she wasn't home until 4:00 a.m.


















I have to get ready for the fall, to work at Birdsley College.













"I am a passionate and lonely woman...

























Honey, the door's locked.
Honey, I don't want us to have secrets from each other.







Have you ever had a lot of women before me?


Charlotte, if it makes you feel any better, I'll sit down and make a complete list of all the women I've ever known.









Honey...
I don't care about other women.























That's better, isn't it?

Darling, you know I have a very bold dream.







Honey, we're just gonna be alone with you, and it's gonna be forever.
Honey, you're distracted.
Just a minute, darling. I want to think of something.











Hello, darling.













Even in the most harmonious marriage, like, for example, not all of our decisions are made by a woman, especially when a man carries out his duties beyond what is required by duty.














"We were newlyweds, and sometimes we played each other again.

It's just, isn't it?



But imagine, friends, I couldn't force myself to do that.




You can't read other people's diaries, can you?









































Honey, I'm so sorry.










They use the names of friends and people they meet in everyday life like the Farlow couple and make up funny situations.













Now, listen, my friend.
























It's a good thing you have friends around you at a time like this.










































































- Really, why?








No, darling.













Good evening, ma'am.






What does a man like you do in a job like this?

































Good evening.
Good evening, sir.













































Why, my dear?
Because, my dear, when my dear mother finds out, she'll divorce you and I'll be strangled.





























It's part of my job, I notice people, and I noticed your face.


















I don't have children; no boys, no tall little girls.




























When you were standing at the office, talking to Mr. George Swain's night manager, he's, by the way, my personal friend. I was wondering if he'd give you a good number here.



He's really normal, he's a good guy, and I could whisper a normal word in his ear and you'd be surprised what could happen here.



It's his job to give you something good.







No, you really don't have to worry about either of us.


















Good evening.

























































No, really.



































Well, I'm starting to think we won't get there tonight.

Can we go to the movies tonight?




























































You promise, don't you?







































































I'm doing all the house work!















































All right, honey, go wash up.






Good evening, Dr. Humbert.



















You see, Lolita's a nice kid, but the beginning of maturation seems to be going through with certain difficulties.
















































































Good evening, Dr. Humbert!

Good evening!
































- Good evening, Dr. Humbert.


















































- You really want to know?



I'll tell you the truth about what I did.









































You have a job.
What about your job?
My job means nothing.







































Hello, darling!
















- I forbid you to go to the evening.













- I hate school and this play is true.



We're going on a long trip and we're going wherever I want to go, aren't we?
Yes, my dear.








We promised Birdsley that we'd be back as soon as I finished my contract in Hollywood.












Really?























































- Really?





























We're a great couple, aren't we?









Your father, darling.

































My friend Professor Bur, "Poets are romantics," and you might like this, "The history of dance," and "The portrait of an artist in youth," James Joyce, maybe.



Since when do sisters wear dark glasses at work?













I'm gonna stay home tonight and treat, so I'm not gonna see you till tomorrow morning.













































Didn't she get discharged tonight?


Yeah, she was discharged at 8:15 tonight.





Mr. Humbert, your daughter left early this evening.


















His adopted daughter was our patient, and she left with her uncle tonight.





































I really have to go.













































































































The only problem there was his crazy friends.
What kind of crazy friends are you?











I'm sorry, darling, Bill cut his finger.















































She loves dogs and kids.

Alaska, the best place for kids.





When you're done, Dad, I hope you'll let me call you that, go outside, I'll show you what I'm doing for the baby.
Call me, darling, if you need any help in the kitchen.
Dick's awfully cute, isn't he?



























I'll have his baby in three months.













































































I wish to state that I have spent my whole life working for the good of our country...
Your job, Mother.





















You figured it out, didn't you?









































Then I started talking about work.







He liked the whole new job. If it weren't for one thing.




































Dear Young, with your age, you've become an even bigger bore.


Excuse me, Dmitri dear.










































Ever since you first told us about your nightmares, Raymond Shaw's whole life, his past, his habits, his friends and loved ones have been thoroughly tested.















I suggest that Raymond Shaw's question be withdrawn immediately, and Major Marco's temporary transfer to another job that would not involve such exhausting and, if I may say so, delicate responsibilities.
I'm guessing a few months' trip to some press office is gonna get our major back on track.
















Enough with the slugs, dear sir.





























































But if we agree to humiliate our brave Chinese friends in the eyes of the world press, then let it be a battalion.

























































































Really, it's hard to imagine such a willing man.



























































































To tell you the truth, I was told you'd be asleep by now.



























But to tell you the truth, I'm just, like, very interested in the basics of modern finance, the history of piracy, the paintings of José Orosco, the modern French theater, the enforcement aspect of mob control, the diseases of racehorses and the novels of Joyce Cary,
























































- Really, I'm serious.



Friends probably call you Jenny.



What do your friends call you then?









































































Now I need a job.
- Work?

My good friend, we don't need interpreters here.







I'm asking you for a job because you're a big man, you saved my life.












































































































To tell you the truth, I don't know anything about that.







And the funny thing is, he writes that I was his best friend and friend in the army.
I was his best friend and friend.
















If a young woman picks up, tell her I'm gone.



























Ben, my mother is a terrible woman.
Terrible, terrible woman.






































It's funny, isn't it?















Ben, you're not gonna blame me for hating my mother, are you?




















No, really, Dad's gonna be so happy.



































My dear, although we have done so according to all the requirements of modern science, there is another popular remedy against snake bites that we have not tried.









































- I'll get a job.





















I really loved her.


















































































































































Raymond, darling.





























I'll take her with me, darling.













It's okay, honey.

























































As a child, I was told that I was the only one who survived the crash of the spaceship on Mars.







My friend Major Ben Marco.























































































My darling.


The problem is that they usually marry each other, and that naturally leads to the huge escape of Jocelyn Jordan, the daughter of Senator Thomas Jordan, with the Korean War hero Raymond Shaw, the stepson of Senator John Islin.



I want to assure you that when the Senate resumes, I will start impeaching this Jordan!
























I've been looking at her face all night.








































































































































At the 9th Congress, the candidates' speeches will resume with the consent of the nomination.













































































































































































































































































































When a man sits with a woman in a movie who doesn't mind his arm on her shoulder, making it clear that she likes it, invites him into the house, what should a man think? Which has achieved an easy victory.




You're a very unusual woman.
















I just got back tonight.
















































































































If I had a kid, I'd take him to the hospital.









Beautiful evening.


































































































My kids at her age would know!

















Really? ..












- Good evening, madam.































I'll just be a minute, baby.





























That's the truth.







It's hard to handle kids for a long time.










































Isn't that right?












































































Put the baby down.
















Nice work.






























































































That's not true!







































My dear Peggy, if you're reading this...




My dear Peggy, by the time you read this, I'll be in the urn at Woodtown Memorial Park Cemetery.














I fully agree with all modern social scientists that there is no more sacred duty in life than constant communication between parents and their children.



It's just a day when a man literally lacks the strength to endure this bunch of his dear kids.




Just a couple of old lovers are free again, only in each other's society, and, from time to time, a ship's flight attendant.

- Good evening.






Don't you want to listen to me for a minute, darling?















Oh, no, honey.

Well, you're not gonna give a kid a loan for her pocket money, are you?











- I'm sorry, darling, but that's out of the question. Let's leave it.











- You mean for the kids?









Oh, Rod, you're saying that people might think you don't love your kids.






We're losing our kids, and you know whose fault it is?



We don't have a close relationship with our children.









Have you noticed how pale the kids are in this last photo?

It's too much, with a whole bunch of kids in addition.

She only has two children.



What did he say, darling?


Your dad's crazy about kids.














- the whole family to live and play - we show our children that the family really exists, that family members aren't strangers at all, like passengers on a bus, and one whole is one for all and one for each other.


And if we do that, I'm not surprised we're getting closer to each other.




- Mom, can you get control of this kid?





There hasn't been a child raised properly in the history of the world.

Kids, wait a minute.










- Dad, can we set up an antenna tonight?

















Danny, don't be a kid.











Kids, come on. - We'll get the luggage from the car.




















Anyone who wants to take a bath tonight can jump into the Pacific.

Ah, Rod, darling.




















It's like we're home right now, darling.




























































What's up, kids?










Beautiful day, isn't it?







Is it true you're a banker?

It's true.










With these Russian names, I just couldn't figure out whether it was a man or a woman.














- Really?





You know, they're not just mine. I'm not gonna take them away from you, darling.



- Yeah, yeah. And the kids.


- What's with the others? Our two older daughters with their children.












Yes, darling?

- What kind of dancer is she? - She's just a big kid.















And in Finland, a man doesn't argue with a woman!






I asked the kids if they wanted to tan on the beach, and then... and... and... and...



















































- Come on, darling. - I don't love you.

- Don't you want to hug Boompa, darling?
























Mom! Oh, honey.
















Yeah, this is an event, isn't it?



Oh, we shouldn't meet so rarely, kids.








Yes, darling. I'm afraid until you grow up, that's all.




























- Poor kid.












We're gonna have another baby right away.

Psychologists agree that children with little difference at the age of... promise, strangely enough, at least intra-family differences.



- You hear that, darling?











- Hey! - Peter, darling.

- Honey, go play with Flopsey.
























It's okay, honey.



Someone has to put this kid in place if he's out of his way.



We don't think children need to say no.








If you think you know more than a man who's devoted his whole life to child psychology, why don't you take care of raising a child yourself?



Don't remind me of my job.











- I'm not a child!




One kid's gonna be blind watching actors shoot at each other all the time.




You want to know the truth?









- Well, they didn't die, darling.




















We're both gonna die before we start asking each other how we're doing.
I know you don't want to talk to him, but can you at least ask him about his work?








Listen, darling.


Children become adults and live their lives.


- Oh, honey.





Good night, darling.


- I mean communication with children.

Let the children communicate with us for a change.
Honey.






















We trust each other in St. Louis.

















































Goodbye, children.














- I'm out of work.

- You mean he doesn't have a job?




















This is from your very good friend Roger Hobbs, and I am very grateful to you, Madame.































Looks pretty attractive, doesn't it?



















































- Yes, darling?



















































Honey, don't you think you should go sit with her or something?
















I want to go home. Okay, darling.














Where have you been all my life, woman?















Sometimes he's really a little weird.























































Oh, Rod, darling.












Really?

























Well, honey, I'm not gonna do anything with the spatterbox until I know what it is.
It's a boat, darling.







- Really?





























I'll call Red tonight and talk to him. - Okay.












Yes, darling, of course.




- But, Dad, it's about work.









I think your dad's right, darling.









































You just don't know what it's like to be out of work for so long... with your wife and the two little kids you have to take care of.





He's getting a job at a research institute, and his future boss is going on vacation with his wife.





And this Mr Turner must personally approve all the people coming to work.


- Let's go upstairs, darling.

















































Nice work, Dad.










































- It's beautiful, isn't it?
















It's a real adventure, isn't it, Dad?

































Did you really see Babe Ruth play? Yes.








































We're gonna have something to tell us tonight, aren't we?
























































































































A few of his remaining friends called Mr. Hobbs a porter at the time.






































Many of our friends are alcoholics.
Uh... darling, what are you gonna drink?


































- Okay, darling.





You like him too, darling.



I know you have a hard job, it's what we all do.


We don't go anywhere in the winter, we get enough of each other.








- Whose job is this? - My wife.






























You have nothing to worry about, darling, because if something goes wrong, the only thing that's gonna happen is that I'm gonna live in the same house as a little asshole.




















































































I don't think you need to worry, darling.





All right, darling.


















Honey, the entrance valve's downstairs, in the kitchen.







































































































Oh, honey.

Oh, honey.















Listen, honey, I...







































It's okay, honey.



Thank you, darling.


Your husband told me the terrible truth.


































But since I've loved him for so long, that's gotta make sense, right?



Katie, darling.


It's actually the best part of the vacation, isn't it?












You see, darling, for husbands who have cute wives, there's only one rule:




















- Really?






- It was too horrible, wasn't it?




You know, I'm very proud of you, darling.






















































Sorry, honey. I was too sharp!








































































































- You're just a kid.



























































































































































































































































It's nice to have new friends.





























































I really didn't hear.



























- Don't, don't! - You're a child!


















































































You could speak German, talk about work, but it wouldn't be true.



























All the small towns look alike. A foreigner's arrival...
































Of course, I have to be a regular guest at their house, an old friend.









Okay, darling. Andre's offering coffee in the garden.


They treated me like an old friend.



- Really? - Yes.




I was surprised how wonderfully this man and this woman were able to keep the conversation going.


They were a perfect complement to each other, they were always smiling, they were happy to live together in this house, they were sitting here with me right now, talking about what they were interested in.






We broke up at 7:00 p.m., satisfied with each other, promised to meet again.












They're really great.

























Andreas beat me this evening, of course, no big deal.



Of course I didn't take them to expensive restaurants because they knew I wasn't rich.































- Beautiful, isn't she?













































- She's been successful with American friends.
- Thank you. - Isn't that right, Shishka?






















































That's not true.
























I offered to spend the evening in the garden, in the cabaret.









From a good friend as I was, a pleasant companion I was supposed to be a intimate friend.






It's just that they sat together and were absorbed into each other.
I had an idea the same night I committed a crime.
























































We were old friends.













Work never makes a man dirty.





























She came back at 10:00 P.M.







































































I was so confused, but this woman was so kind, so gentle, so understanding, you know?

I didn't know any other women.

Just my mother, this woman and you.











How can a woman so easily avoid the opportunity to find peace if she is offered or pretended to be?






I was her friend, their friend.





















Sometimes she visited friends, Shishka or others.







I spent most of the evenings at their house.


































The same night I went to visit them for dinner.







































































- I want you to leave Hartman tonight.








- That's not true.













We saved each other.
We live for each other.
A friend without a friend can't exist.








































































- Good evening, Professor.
- Good evening...









- See you later, darling.









































Honey, I'll be happy with you anywhere.




Come on, darling.








Wait, honey.






Go, darling, sit down.











Good evening, Martha.






You must be hungry, darling.








Come on, darling. I'll go upstairs with you.


















Good morning, darling.








But, darling, that's absurd, who would do that?




Forgive me, darling, returning to the clinic after all these years... I'm nervous, I'm sorry.


Sorry, honey.

By the way, we're invited to the theater tonight.














- See you later, darling.





I see medicine is as attractive to you as a beautiful woman.
















































I know, darling, that you loved her... but please try to understand - wherever I go, her eyes look at me, watching me.




















I knew you wouldn't believe it, but I'm telling the truth.















Nonsense, darling, I'm just a little worried. My hands aren't as skilled as they used to be.



All right, darling, whatever you want.































































How are you, darling?



Nothing, darling.





Honey, drink this, it'll help you sleep.








You can go back to work next week.









































































Kids were supposed to load things.















- No, I'm a married woman.











































































































































































Look, honey, two plus two now isn't equal to four.






































































































We'll talk about it tonight.
Now go, darling.








































































































































- I bet the women were very scared.
















































































- Come on, darling.















- How are the women?




























Yes, darling, attacks.

























































That's because I'm scared too, darling.

















- Yes, darling.






























































I need to know that there are other people like us, like our children.



















































Honey, don't cry.



















It's okay, honey.









































































Go talk to her, darling.





































- What's the matter, darling?
I guess all our friends are dead.






























- What, honey?




I just wanted to find you, darling.




























































































































































































































































































I know what men think of redheaded women.





































































Paper with job announcements.


Then you'll have to look for a job.


























Languages are my job.





























Can you tell me what it takes for Germans to get a work permit?






- Are you looking for a job for yourself?

















But in Italy, work is tight.




















Who is this woman?



















































But for women, they usually become good friends.







Do you think I can find a job here?





- Do you have any work to do?


Until I get a better job, of course.

















































Why are you trying to find a job in Venice?









We're only on the same road today and there's no sign of each other.











































My dad only lets it out for himself and his friends.







No problem with women.
































































































There's always work on board for you.












Why does he want a woman around?



















I'll think about it tonight...

No, really, in case I'm still here.





































































Sometimes I just split up in two... and my two half bet on each other.






























































































































I eat here every night.





















































































































Who is this woman?












In the same cases I'm interested in, for beautiful women, everything ends up in the Grand Canal with a slit throat.











You're an incredible woman.

No job, no money, no luggage, no address.






You're close to the truth.






















































But such people can pose a threat to those who know the truth about them!









I'll find a job somewhere.








It looks more expensive than it actually is.











































































I can get you a job.
I have friends, powerful businessmen, who just need someone like you.


































I really don't promise I'll see him today.






































Good evening.




































I'm not a useless killer! Isn't that right, O'Malley?





You didn't think I could do that? Really?












So I can finish my job here.


















































































































































But we're supposed to meet him here tonight.





























If you need a job, you'll find me at the Commandant's.


























































The commander brought his men this evening.












































You can't get away with women.















While I'm busy with the others, you're saving the women.





Stupid people are the most dangerous friends.








He offered me a job.

















It's a long story, but he's our friend.










We've been here a lot. Isn't that right?







Although... actually... the smell is really good.



































Really, Mom?




















You don't have to hide the truth from us.





















Camelia. She's beautiful, isn't she?
























We can't use women.


















































































































































































To work.































He can give us away to get a job.











































































































































































































My dear, that's a great idea!



I really prefer white.

















































































































Darling, call him.








































































No, my friend, no!



































































I see no difference between my own children.





















Is it true there's sinyl acid in the fern?















































Turns out it's you, darling, picking out a place where I've been able to experience such happiness.













He refused to baptize his children.























You're a fool, my dear.



























Is it hard for you, darling?
No, it's not hard tonight.



































































































































Isn't it hard for a man of my build to suspect that he's short-blooded?













































Bernard will never understand how I felt that night in the kitchen in Argelous after Jean Azevedo left.




Surely, if the worst had happened, he would have sacrificed me for this child.
























































Ever since the baby came into the house, Anna has been reborn.
She even made up with Teresa to spend more time with the baby.









































































































































































































































Some women weigh more often and not only because of health problems.

































































We're not gonna back down, we're done here, are we?
























The ladies took a bath at noon and after three hours of sleep... but by the evening they were like soft tea buns... with sweat frosting and talka.




























He's paying me for some legal work I did for him.


































Behave yourself, children.

























She sent my picture to the Beautiful Child pageant and won five dollars for me.































































































No more reading today, darling.






























- Good evening, Atticus.
- Good evening, Judge.










And your children need time.






































































































You have children yourself.














































































































What are you gonna do this morning when both kids are at school?
I don't know, and it's true.







































Our dad's a friend of your dad's.





























































You give up the need to go to school, and we reserve the right to read every night... just like we always did.


Although it wasn't a talent to inspire the admiration of any of our friends,


















































- Good evening, David.
- Good evening.
- Good evening, Helen.
- Good evening, Mr. Finch.






































































































They brought him back tonight... because tomorrow's trial.
- Good evening, Heck.
- Good evening, Mr. Finch.



Cal, if I needed you to stay here tonight, could you?

























We knew about it, so let's go another way.







































































Come on, kids.


On the evening of August 21, I was just leaving my office to go home when Bob-- Mr. Ewell came.






































Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?



Well, that night... I came out of the woods with a crotch of wood... and I heard Mayella screaming as soon as I got to the fence.






































Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?






































































Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
























Tom... what happened to you... on the evening of August 21st last year?
Mr. Finch, I went home as usual that night.








The kids weren't there.
And I said, "Miss Mayella, where are the kids?"

















You swore to tell the truth.

















And strong enough to strangle a woman and throw her on the floor?



Why are you trying so hard to help this woman in the household?


With Mr. Ewell and seven kids in the house?
Did you do this job out of the goodness of your heart, fight?






A white woman?

























In the belief that you gentlemen agree with them... in the assumption-- a terrible assumption-- that all niggers lie, all blacks are fundamentally immoral, all Negroes cannot be trusted with our women.


So, quiet, modest, respectable nigger, who had complete recklessness to feel pity for a white woman, puts his word against the words of two white men.






































There are people in this world... who are born to do unpleasant work for us.















Look at the kids, Modi.
























































































Someone was chasing my kids.











He won't bother these kids anymore.






















































Thank you for my children.


















Are you really interested in him?














































Really, that's what I always thought.



- Haven't you tried finding a job? - I don't know.






























































































Good evening, how are you?
Good evening, it's okay.






- It's 1:00 p.m. It's late.













































I walked down the street... saw a woman buy a newspaper.










There's a couple of friends.


Why didn't you ask for an advance at work?























- Really, I don't.





























One night, Raymond came with the train tickets to Brest.
Said he had a job there, and we had to move there. We're staying at a hotel with a view of the port.


I went out with the kids, bought them ice cream.

Tonight, three weeks later, he didn't come back... and I did everything myself-- kids, mother-in-law who didn't help because she hated me. He didn't come back at all.

Two years later, we went to the movies tonight and saw him in an American film. That's it.







































- And that's true. - Here we go.






































You think I'm a special woman?










Really?









I'm a friend.









Prostitutes attract everyone by their charms, try to earn as much as possible, find customers more expensive, and make them comfortable.





By Act No. 46 of 5 November 1947 and Decree No. 2.253 of 5 November 1947, a national health register for women has been set up to register those for whom it is clear, unambiguous and certain that they are prostitutes.











- Every woman has a standard. There is a certain rate on the ground.
























Most of the time, they don't go to work until the next day.
It usually happens on the day of the check-up. They spend the day with their children, most often in the village where they hang.
























































































- It's my job.















































To understand each other?
We have to understand each other, we have to talk to each other.
Otherwise, we won't understand each other.








































"The truth is everywhere, even in error."


That's when you thought you could avoid a mistake, more than that, you could live in the truth all the time.

- Kant, Gegel, the other German philosophers, they let us know that only through a series of mistakes can you get to the truth.


Random truth next to the truth is vital to life itself.
And a number of German philosophers have developed this idea -- in life, to come to the truth, you have to go through obstacles and mistakes, but that's how we get to know her, that's the truth.
Is love just the truth?
Is love always true?






That's the harsh truth of life.








It was a portrait of a young girl, charming, almost a woman.







But nothing was known about the author of this work, nor about this immortal face that impressed me so much.





































































Jane, isn't she a beautiful doll?


Okay, kids. Thank you.


And kids, you can tell moms: every one of these really big, beautiful dolls is a copy of your favorite baby Jane Hudson!










You don't want those friends of yours to think you're a bad girl, do you?
















You're happy, Blanche. Really.



































































































- Really?
- Yeah, really.









It was all a long time ago, darling.


















































Really?



















































I told my husband that seeing you again was like meeting an old friend..."




























We know each other very well.







And she's a sick woman.
Elvira, you didn't know her when she was a kid.











































































































Coming, darling!





What section is "Private Advertisements" or "Work"?




























































































No, but it's a chance, isn't it?
There's not a lot of good work for a man with your qualifications right now.





















































You're really sick.









































Good evening.














Really?
























That's how music changes, isn't it?




When I opened the door and saw you, I knew we were going to be friends.






Really. My clipping albums are in the rehearsal room.













I'll tell you. My friend.



I always wanted you to have friends.



You're the one who always stopped me from making friends. That's why!
Never. I'm glad you have a friend.



























- Really?

























































































































That check she gave me last night. I see.






























You have to act like an adult woman.














































No, really, it happened to me.

Really...



















- It's true!

You're gonna date a woman like that?





































And maybe we'll have friends.































Is that true?











Really.




It's nice, and we're gonna be friends again.










I used to give these to real, best friends. The people I worked with.


































It is believed that Blanche Hudson, a famous film actress of the 1930s, was forcibly taken away by a sister once known as Babie Jane Hudson from their Hollywood mansion last night, between 22:00 and 22:30.

- So you found this coloured woman?















































































































































But it's not for me, is it?






















































At this stage, you can continue to work.

















































Your truth, Mr. K. Why don't you eat?












To your friends who are sitting there.




No, Mrs. Grubach, these are not my friends.





















Fortunately, one well-known lawyer is a close friend of my family. Is that a threat?












































You wonder why I'm renting rooms to a woman of this kind.




She's got a decent mother.

















Good evening, good morning.







































































Frealain Bürstner, I haven't left this apartment since I came from the service last night.
























































































Everything has its place, really. I assure you, she never dared before.





































I can't watch a woman drag a heavy suitcase.
Besides, she's a dying woman. Is that what you're saying? What are you doing?

Then go your way.
















She's a secular woman, works at a nightclub.
















But you just have to tell me the truth.
























































That's funny, isn't it?




















































Is that true?
Yeah, unfortunately, it's true.
































































- And it's true, Joseph. That's my electronics!


We're friends of the lawyer.


















It's me, your old friend.











Really? Isn't that right, sweetheart?



























In circles where I'm spinning, naturally things are discussed and the most interesting things get stuck in my head, especially when it comes to my friend's nephew.





But good friends from the courts visit me from time to time, and they tell me a lot of interesting things.
There's a good friend of mine at my house right now.





My old friend Max K and his nephew.














I think your friend should be warned immediately that Joseph K's case is likely to go through several instances.









































































Leni, darling.
































































































































































































































Write it down as it goes. Really?


















But I'm... I'm gonna get rid of your dad's high school friend.





























































Good evening, Joseph. Leni, I...













































Tell me a secret, please, so we can trust each other and rely on each other's silence.




































Friends do you favors, and you take it for granted.























You really like sleeping here, don't you?































































Yesterday I was at my friend's, the third judge's. I managed to get the conversation back to your case.









































And it makes it harder for me to tell the truth.






























































































































































































You rely too much on outside support, especially from women.
Women have a lot of influence. At least take the investigator. Once he sees a woman, he's ready to jump over the table and over the defendant's head just to grab her by the skirt.
Where's the door? I've got work to do.


































































































































































Buddy, twenty-six years for a job like this is nothing!


























I only know one woman...













































































The truth is, it's been a little long.

























Really?



















































With such a criminal appearance, can I provoke a woman's love? Who is obliged to collect all the debts of the city?




























Why do they punch their friends in the face?








Don't burden your children!



















If we love each other?

What's it worth to you?


A child will come and give us comfort! contemptible and rejected?












Did the baby fall asleep?




















































































And for the baby!

For the baby!


Now I have to go to my clients! Bringing each other to fines and jail...





























































I'm glad you're going to the masquerade tonight!





































































But then throw balls in the evenings!



























































The job's frozen.







































































































One day I asked the child: Why is the sea salty? Answered without wondering:












































































- Is that true?
- Mostly the truth! ..























































































































































































It's not like crows are gonna stick one another's eyes out.
















Shame on you! You must bring this woman to justice.



































































- And your baby?
My baby!

















- Your baby!
Here are my children! They fight and turn into demons...













































If no one else believes... who doesn't protect his children?

































































Lots of healthy and wonderful kids.
You want a lot of kids, don't you, Anto?























Because I love another woman.


















I'm marrying a beautiful woman, not a beast!
I want healthy kids, not dogs fighting in the night!

































































- You can marry, my children.





























No, my children, you can't come in yet.













Now the kids can come in.
































































































I started looking at her like a woman.























Friends of Christ.

















- Good morning, dear sunshine.
- Good morning, dear sunshine.































































The salt of this woman's body.





































































































Get to work, get to work!




















































































































































Is that really a curse?
That's what you say, and if it's true, it's probably true.






Really?







































Yeah, it's true!
Really!
Tell me you're a witch and that they're telling the truth about you.



























My stay at the camp wasn't what you think, my dear Walter.













I did not hesitate to alleviate the fate of these women, if I could.

The job on my team was easier than anywhere else, and the treatment was more human.
I saw Martha. She was fragile and childlike.































































They loved each other, believing that no one knew about it.

But I knew that someone who could give or take away the most expensive would become the owner of the position.















- The baby!







Taking advantage of my weakness, Martha dragged me into a dirty business. I turned out to be her accomplice in an attempt to save a Jewish child.











- He's got urgent work on the Commander's villa.

































- Here you see a typical bark for women. Please!





















- Of course, we sometimes allow prisoners to visit each other.



































My dear... darling...



We can talk, talk to each other.






























- Nope. - The Jewish kid your team was hiding in camp.



I said I heard the baby crying in the wheelchair, and she brought the doll!




































I don't think these women will ever meet again.


The film was finished:
































Silian's my friend, and he's pissed the shit out of everyone.
























































Oh, no, you're gonna have a job.





I ate snails last night, so they're all stuck in my stomach. You don't have a cure?




























He said that the writer and his wife were in Biarice. I think the old man's a friend of theirs, lives there until they get back.







Anyway, I think Silian is my friend. And since I don't have any evidence against you, everything stays the same.

























I really didn't bother you? Not at all.


Dear madam, you won't bother me and tell me where Maurice works.

Now, dear madam, be reasonable.



















You couldn't find a better profession? Could have, of course. We're gonna go back to work for the police.













Dear Maurice, the last time I saw you, I said that years spent in prison didn't make any sense to you. You've become very weak. I told you to change the scene.


























So we thought you were a close friend of Sali's.















Think of him, he was your friend. I already told you, I didn't lead him on this case.





















But no one mentions a woman.
But since the newspapers published a report on this case, a guy has come to the police saying he remembers a woman driving a car.

They tell him, who did you see, a man or a woman? No, he answers, just the woman.










It's late, we have nothing more to say to each other.









So tonight, while we were looking for you, we were trying to find the other one. But you can't see him anywhere.





























Well, we'd like you to call somewhere and find out about your friend Fogel.
Fogel's not my friend.





















Goodbye, my friends. No, we'll drop you off at the bar.




The police have two hypotheses. One: An accident because she fell asleep driving. And second, the young woman was eliminated so she wouldn't be able to report anything to the police.























You just give me the name of a friend, a close friend of Rami's, and I'll let you go.



- Too bad. Really, I'm sorry. In that case, you'll have to be responsible for the murder.


Gilbert Varnov was my friend. He took me in when I got out of prison.








You say Gilbert was your friend. Okay. And you use the reputation of a cool guy in your environment.












Now, if you have any remorse, I still want to hear the truth about Remy.





Good evening, Monsieur Silian. Are you looking for someone? No, I'm thirsty.








You know, Monsieur Silian, I'm out of work...






































Wait a second, I really thought you were here for me.





Because I just told you the truth. I wanted to see you. You.























Do you think that if I wasn't absolutely sure what I was saying, I would've tried so hard to get someone out of prison that I'd never been friends with?

















































It's not the first time I've given money to friends who need it.







































He became my friend.






You really don't know?
Salinari was my friend. A few days ago, I met him with a girl who seemed to be in love with him.





I gave you the opportunity to leave Remy and went to call Sali to invite him to dinner that night.











And then, for my own safety, I decided to get rid of Teresa. Really, she can charge me with complicity, which is gonna be hard to prove.























I made sure there were two guys' fingerprints on the stake that shot each other in the Cotton Club.













I can tell you for sure that Salinari and you would be great friends.



















I have a friend, a very close friend.





I'd give my lawyer a letter. He would have given it to Jean, one of my friends, who would have given you two million to buy a wreath.














































I don't know what's going on, but her last homework was so bad.







I took the address from the secretary, the 76th alley of Totter, I passed him the same night.






































































- But her homework?


The truth is, she's both curious and we won't rest until we get all the answers.





- Really?
- Really.















They only interact with each other.
















































































- Good evening.


- Really?








































































































It's amateur work, but I think it's okay.




Illusion, isn't it?









































- You treat us like children.

The children of my civilization would be insulted.






Susan and I were expelled from our home planet, without friends or protection.



It's true.
Every word is true.





















































Or at least they'll tell their friends.










- You're very sentimental right now and you're acting like a kid.
No, I'm really gonna do that.
































































































































































































Really, thank you.






































- My dear boy, these eternal questions of yours.

























































































































































Someone was here last night.























































All gentlemen stand for each other.












Good evening, Monsieur Ivan.





"Stolen on the night of the wedding"

Kidnapped on a wedding night." It's interesting."






I'm a weirdo, aren't I?











































































Is that a job?














Hello, darling.































- Good evening, Lucy.























Isn't that right, Paul? Isn't that right, Paul?




I know you wouldn't do anything like that without a good reason. I believe my dear uncle has done some injustice to you.

- That's right, isn't it? - Ivan! - Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan,






Isn't that right, Paul?





- No, honey.








- Claudia, darling. - Yeah?








Adrian, your patience is limitless, darling.







Good evening, Andre.

Dear Claudia, you have no idea how much trouble I'm in.





















































- Good evening, Andre. Just don't play naive.


















I understand your condescension, my dear, but every day he puts us in an increasingly ridiculous position.
- You're exaggerating, darling.
- But you're exaggerating, darling.









Look as a friend to the Danish Master.































































François, my friend, brother, no "Monsieur" between us.



François, I know you were my only friend.
- You're my friend, aren't you?




















































































They thought I was here to kill their dear Adrian, and it was because of the hat and the scarf.








































You shouldn't eat before you read poets. Really, Dad?
Really, Dad?













and children...........................................




























































- Do you like this job?

You breathe fresh air, and then nobody gets tired of working.








To tell you the truth, I don't dig a piano if you can put it that way.













I'd love to, if it doesn't interfere with my job.










































- Do you really want to see it? - Of course, my dear.

We'll invite our friends to watch your masterpiece.















- Well, let's go. My friends, the show is about to begin.
























I love elegant women.














































































































































Are you here to kill me, dear Uncle?






- But, my dear...

















































































































































- Honey, this is my friend...


















































Isn't that right, Professor?










































































































Why don't you get him a job?



I dreamt you got him a job, but he went crazy and killed both of us.












































































































































- Really?



























I'm telling you as a friend, you're gonna lose her.
























































Good evening, Signora.



























Good evening, Producer.







My friends, there's only one truth...








Guido, isn't it true that I don't know anything?




















































Good evening, madam.





























Don't worry, darling, it's no big deal.





It's the truth. And it's not just a coincidence.


























































Go to bed, children!






















































I feel like I've done everything wrong... in my life, in my work...


Talk to me like you're an old friend of mine.





This hero... she's such a woman...






































But it's even better for my job.






























Good evening.





















Good evening.






















































How much you've changed, Guido, my friend.







































































Guido, tell me honestly. Tell me the truth, okay?



































- Any kids?

















But besides that, for the rest of his life, wherever he lived, Luigi would talk and meet the women whose presence he avoided, so anyone who saw him felt that he was innately hostile to them...

























































































- Louise, darling.




I feel lonely. - Is that true?


And you weren't having fun with all those beautiful women?












She's so cute, isn't she?

Good evening, Signora.




Signora, tonight you will see the depth of the madness that the producer may sink into.







See what kind of women are attracted to the director?















- No, my friend, I insist.










































































































He's a very good friend.


































































These are the kind of women that the pathetic, spineless, indecisive men like most.



So that's why you've been tormenting me since last night.

And what annoys me most is that people might think that I'm dating a woman who dresses so vulgarly.






It sounds like it's true.



You can't live by hiding what's true and what's lying.






No, honey, I'm not laughing.













Truth be told, I'm a little vulgar. Oh, come on!







Good evening, girls.






And this is my dear half-sister, 'cause she finally figured out how it's supposed to be.




























Oh, darling!







I'm really busy right now.




































Isn't he the best kid in the world?















He likes to act like a kid, but he's not really that simple.
























































It's true.






















He does that almost every night.

But, darling, you're hurt;


























My dear, happiness can tell the truth without making anyone suffer.







It was a lovely evening.































Good evening. I apologize for being late.




Good evening...

















You have too few friends left, both among the Left and among the Right.







































Your hero is a woman who has lost her will to fight the challenges of life because...





















Not someone who's lying and swears he's telling the truth every minute.


I'll never, ever know the truth with you.





















































But I know the truth.







What can you show others if you can't even tell the simplest truth to the people closest to you?



























You know it's dangerous, darling.

































































































No, because a woman can't change a man.



























































































































...a poet, my friend, not a director.



























I'm no longer afraid to tell the truth about what I don't know about what I've been looking for, but I never found it.





It's the only way we can find each other.
I don't know if everything you said was true.







Talk to each other.













































































- I love very expensive things.


















"Women are following me, bothering me...




























- But that's how I look sexy, isn't it?














































































































































































- It's true, the statute prohibits.
















































































- Good evening.
- Good evening.









































































































Are you really smuggling gold?
Really.
















And your job is to find a flight attendant who carries gold?














Elena, darling, let's talk seriously.



Elena, honey, aren't you attracted to this?
















No, I was a very good kid at the dawn of my life.





It's true, I'm desperate for adventure.
















- Tomorrow night.





























I'm an interesting girl, dear monsieur.



















- That's better, isn't it?














































- Isn't that right, Tieber?













I played him a whole show, a business role, a greedy woman's money.



























I'll do whatever you want, darling.












































In honor of our new friend, Monsieur...

Monsieur Tiber and our old friends, in this case very old.













What a lovely kid.

She's tired of modeling.






























You're adorable! Will you come with me tonight to a restaurant in Tokyo?






























































Let's see you tomorrow, darling.


- Yes, darling?





























































Really? How interesting!













We take a bath like this after work when we're very tired.







Tomorrow night, Lolotte will be in Madrid.




















- Watch women cry?


























































































What would you say, my dear Melanie... if I'd put down my drawer?







































































Seems like we like each other.


























































































I'm a very expensive girl.




























































































































































Come on, Achilles, asshole, my friend.




























I'm done. I'm changing jobs.










You know, to do the fun work I had, you have to have a free mind, a free heart, and all that.














Since Monsieur Andre, my coach, only agreed to work with me if we won tonight.


























No, no, not tonight, Monsieur Andre.



It's a dirty job, and you know it.















The truth, the truth...
You want the truth?
Let's talk about the truth.























































Now, Diedonne, tell us the truth.
Truth, truth...
Is it true?

Well, it's true that the Minister has information for a request to the Public Prosecutor's Office.

Everyone's gonna quit work, and the job's over.










And the papers are attacking tonight.

























Hmm, kids...




You don't have a wife or children.

























I got a job as secretary.
I'm meeting my employer tonight.









































He told me to come to this address at 9:00 p.m.






How long have you been out of work?
No, I lost my job two weeks ago.




























Tonight?
Tonight.




























Paul-Louis will take care of you, my dears, these few days.





Goodbye, my dears.































































































































































































Dear Morel...









You're starting to act like a child!









































It's true.











I have to be there for him from morning to evening, and from evening to morning.








Is that true what they say about you?




Now I have this bar, every night I collect money, and I take it to the bank.























Because it's true.

My dear Morel, it is time to fight.




















That night, I decided to go to New Orleans to see the city, to watch a tram called "Want."

Is it true you're French?



"What a strange American!" This is a man who watches a woman like a Frenchman.






































And they say it's women who are pathetic...







































Now we're used to each other.
In our relationship, our fights, there's something like the relationship of two old lovers who no longer love each other.
But they can't live without each other.































We don't understand each other.

























































































She made me swear to the kids that I'd quit.



























































































































































































































I'll be in Cannes with my friends.






















It's expensive to travel.

















So far, I've lived like a obedient child.




































































































































































For friends, Jackie.






























































































































































































































































































































It's great, isn't it?




But it was expensive to drive. And in time, she gave up.
































































Maybe tonight.

Now or tonight, it doesn't matter.
























- Really?










































































































































































Your husband, friends?














































































Caron's a friend.






































One more whiskey, darling!


















































































































He's rich, really.

















Dear Dad, our fight has upset me.



















































































































Through the chimney, or through work.


































Really?






















































You think that's weird, don't you?



















































Others are left alone at least after work.

You're my friend, help me.


































Do you know how this job is paid?
























Hate... friend...

The baby...

























We'll do some gymnastics tomorrow night.














Not until tonight.











































































Dear Hopder, life is unpredictable.

































Willie, my friend, it's not working well.




The boss and the hefting hug each other like a father and a son.














































































That's not true!

Well, that's not true.
Remember, that's not true.











































Honey, you're a little happy!





































































































































We'll talk to you tonight.







The director decides on the work of the prisoners.
Cominec's job is running.
We can ask in Berlin how useful this work is.




















These are my friends.


















































Beautiful women... come on!





















































Thinks if he's a friend of Cominec's...
A friend of Cominec's?



Let's see, you're gonna deserve such a powerful friend!











































































- Really?
























































































































That hit was below the belt, wasn't it?



































































- It's probably because of a woman.






























Work - La Chalem - bus - work.
It's a subway bus, La Shalem.




The key, if you do the right thing... now there's a problem at work, and it was so easy.






































- My friends and I put together a Dauphin. - For the rally. - "Dauphin"?























He's so lazy, he's all over the place. That's understandable.

- If you like the job, I don't get tired.










I'd rather say, "If Tom had a job, I'd stay here for a couple of days."



























- Didn't expect to see a woman like that?







- Really?












I don't like leaving you alone tonight in San Sawyer, there are workers out there. You know I'm not jealous.



















































































Did she hire you? Are you sleeping with her?













































Yeah, there's Maria, but you still feel a little lonely with a woman.
A man, no matter what, needs a friend.














All women are so variable.






























It wasn't better on the street: room work, food. Always had to pay the same coin.





Saturday night, he'll go to the Veterans' meeting.



































































































































































































































He's the one who ordered the party, your dear husband.













They'll think they've found another woman of the same age.
































































































I'm his friend.













- Did you do the same job?


Interesting work.
























































- Nope. But you know, it's our job to know everyone. Is he sleeping there?



















































- What about you when you need a woman?





Let's get to work!





































































You're an expensive locksmith.




































Darling, darling, I love you!
























Really, there was this guy... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
















































With such a rich husband and such luxurious outfits, you can easily make a lot of new friends.









































































































Last recorded yesterday, Thursday. 5:00 P.M.





Dear Rigina!






Not too much, is it?





























I'll try to get back to work at UNESCO.
What kind of job is that? I'm a synchronist interpreter, just like Silvi.







But not too expensive.


It's a little crowded here, isn't it?
Didn't Charles have any friends?




















































That he only needs secret codes and cyanide, and then he can get to work.












- Really?


































































I get that. That's how they beat each other up.

















Good evening, ladies and gentlemen!


































































Maybe I shouldn't disappoint your imagination, but could you just remember for a second that I'm a woman and you...









Stop treating me like a child!























Alan, darling!































But when you find the money, you won't forget to tell your friends about it, will you? Really?





























Usually because they want something to happen and they're afraid the truth's gonna get in their way.

















































I think a woman makes great spies.





















































Remember, you said yourself that women are perfect spies.









































































































Are you really Carson Dyle's brother?










I'm sorry the old man couldn't tell you the truth. But I had to find out what your role was in this case.









The belonogies always tell the truth, and the black-legged lie.














































Are you really a cowboy?
Really.










Give me the money now! Why don't you shut up and leave the baby alone.














































































Really?



Get the baby out of here.






































Women aren't logical because they think it's female or because they can't do it otherwise?





- Women.























No, to fly down on a rope saving the woman you love... like a hunchback from the cathedral of the Holy Mother of Paris!











































Really, really!





















I don't think you know who killed them. Really?








































I love my job.













That a pretty girl, but a desperate girl is worth a quarter of a million dollars to me?



























Really?







And your friend, who lives here too, who's from Texas... he's gone! It's gone!








Now you're telling the truth. Why would you write such a ridiculous story?


























































There's work to be done in the morning... and there's nothing left to do today.




































Oh, I have a job.














Ten minutes ago, I had work to do.












































Where is he? What's wrong with you, darling?





































































































































It's true, Mrs. Lampert.








































Tell me the truth, did you save my life or did you save those damn stamps?

























































You're gonna love each other.







































































































- No women.









- Which part of the woman created it?









Or are we all gonna yell at each other?


























But you have to face the truth.



















We'll stop the work together.














What are you doing? Get back to work.


We stop work at 19:30.


















Another hour till the end of the job!

















Such friends!
























































Good evening.








Good evening.







































A friend and guest of your teacher.











I know how hard it is to get so many workers together after work.



You don't have to stop work for an hour, but a day for a week.





Friends, let's go on strike.













Wait a minute, friends.




























It's true that tomorrow...

It's true...




I don't want to be considered a careless woman.





















We have to help each other.






























I came to tell you I'm going to work tomorrow.











- If you go to work, our unity will be destroyed.






If Negrus goes to work tomorrow, everyone's gonna go after him, and I'm gonna go first.





A strong man leaves his city and... a starving family looking for work.















You came with my work permit?









































































The factory's closed, the work's stopped.





We also have friends, powerful friends.


















He was neither a man nor a woman, he was our Lord.












































































































The owner of the store is a friend of mine.











First, 13 hours of work and 1 hour for lunch.


































Women first.

Calm down, friends, bosses are waiting.



























Work, even hard work, can bring great satisfaction.




















In Saluzzo, 200 textile workers are unemployed.






































Friends, friends.












We haven't had a job in a month.
















































































Then tell me the truth.
The whole truth.


























I have no home, no family, no friends.




























Civil and educational gesture, especially for children...








Tell your friends not to raise any more money.















Do I have to send you a letter to keep your schedule?









































































































- Good evening!
- Good evening!
















It's dangerous in a friend's house.

Wife and two kids.






I have a picture of my kids.
















If you're so kind, could you give a message to my friend?

















































































Yeah, fine, but if my friends hear about it?



















- I'm your friend, you know.

























Friends, you know me.


They also have... families, wives and children.


























































Calm down, friends.




































You and your children, if you leave the fight!














































































My friends gave me a little.






- It's a friend's address in Lugano.











































The truth.























Dorothy's not the woman you want.


And you're gonna need a woman who's gonna keep an eye on you.





















































I became a businesswoman.























"I believe to understand," my dear.




Some beautiful woman must have been happy to see you.
Pretty women don't need it.





















































































































































I have to clear the check, see old friends... and come back early in the morning.


































































































































Call me at 7:00 P.M.
















I was a kid then.




















































































































































































You're tormented by the idea of a woman.



Even now, women find me attractive.


And it was only through a woman that I could have some power over life.







Waiting for the women.



But you had Dorothy and a lot of other women.








What a strange life we have, we're attached to our women.












Are you my friend?
If you're my friend, take me for who I am.








Dubur, is that what you're gonna do tonight?


















Yeah, we have amazing friends.


They give birth to children, they do business, they write books.

























We're in a disaster, darling!






To make a couple of friends worried about you happy.



That's not true.










But he needs to finish his job.
Please, darling.
His job... is more of an alibi.




































- He's a great friend.


And always with women.






































































He's an old friend of Cyril's and my old boyfriend.



















My friend Alain can't keep his eyes off you.















Then to work.
Then a woman.














A woman in love.











We could help a friend an arc.






Really?





I slept with all the women here.























But I never had any money or women.













You have a woman.





The women who are here today... I don't want them.

















You're a beautiful woman.
A good woman.







The relationship between a man and a woman depends on when things happen.
































Call it what you want, but you attract women.























Dear Alain, I'm calling to remind you of lunch.































Dear Fabrizio, this paper will give you terrible news.









Francesco Paolo, you're going to the castle in Palermo tonight.














Spend two hours with your friends at the seminary, Father.




















Good evening, Your Grace. Good evening, Sergeant.








Good evening, handsome.






I was out with my friends. I spent an innocent night.
























































I have seven kids from her.










































Hey, good woman! Yes, you are!









































- It's a lot hotter, darling. Terrible!






















Isn't his wound dangerous? What?









Dear Terezina! It's so good to see you.







































Until he realizes he has grown-ups and it's time for them to love.



























































Good evening. Count, allow me to introduce my daughter, Angelica.


















What about taking the port of Terminus? I was there. Really, not for long.


























It won't be very noble of me.


































It's true.














Luckily, they know the truth in paradise!















Your Grace, I think I've made myself clear about this man. I'm interested in the truth about Don Calogero and his family.
The truth, Your Grace, is that Don Callogero is very rich and powerful. Heather, how the hell, Your Grace.




















































































































I brought my friend, Count Cavriaga.
































































































The truth is, I would have left right away to talk to the Prince.

















Dear Chevalier, you are in my house, and you will remain in my captivity as long as I want to.









But they still got their son, really, in pieces.










It was a pretty dangerous job for him and his family. When our carabineros get here, this will all be over.




























































































Stella, darling! Your daughters have become so beautiful!

Really? Good evening.






Good evening.


They're charming, aren't they?




I hope you and your officers will have a pleasant evening at our house.
- Isn't that right, Marguerite? - Sure.






Amazing man, isn't he, darling?


Good evening.









Angelica, I introduce you to my friend, Joaquino Lance.









Dear Fabrizio! You look beautiful.

















You don't have a lot of balls like that. It's too expensive now.
































Really, Angelica.







- That's not true. - Really! You can't get in the way of a lover.




















Thank you, darling.


Excuse me, Colonel. Don't you think you're a little attracted to compliments and bows in his honor?






























































Ball's good, isn't it?









Good evening in the middle of the night.














































































I don't care, my life is worth more.









But I suppose it'll be easier for you men than for me, a woman, to get the killer out of the water.







Dear friends, I leave this kind invitation to remind you of me.



























































But they're needed, they're important, aren't they? For what?















Mr. Broomfield, it was an accident that I found out that you were... you were, of course, reading about it as friends with both unfortunate victims of this terrible case.






















And that you weren't friends.





















It's inappropriate at my job, but when I take a sip out of a bottle, I get brave like a lion.



































































It's the police's job to expose him.


















































He died 20 years ago, she was just a kid...

Are you sure she's not a kid now?




I don't date women, Mr. Welby. Sorry... but I'm still running.











- Yeah... the night turned out to be worth it.













He's a good journalist... and he could start working with competitors tomorrow.





I don't think she's a woman.
















































Mr. Welby, in your and our interests, I advise you... to leave the police work.

















Good evening, Mr. Welby.













There is a woman in the darkness of the city whose thoughts are full of destruction.






'Cause no one knows that woman.




There's a woman in the darkness of the city who made a deal with death.






'Cause no one knows that woman.




There's a woman in the darkness of the city who made a deal with death.























































































































































Clarissa, don't be a kid.






You have children yourself...
- The young lady is no longer a child.
She's a woman, which is worse.

















Charming guy, isn't he?









My dear Mr. Welby, your ambitions are gradually becoming a threat to your life.









Who said Black Widow was a woman?



































People in the victim's friends circle, and that's why the police, too, think you're the Black Widow.

















I had nothing to do with the death of your friends, please believe me!














You're a grown woman... don't come near him while he's there.














































That the police, unlike me, would be very concerned about the way you took care of my friends.



















Good evening, sir!










Really?
















































What happened to my father, Alfonso Avery, March 26, 1951? So it's true...










It was really an accident.













































































If she's not home, we start with work, then we'll check on Brumfield and Osborne.



















































One woman keeps another woman on the gun.














































































My friend, you violated article 333 of the Criminal Code.











Not me, my wife, the mother of my children.



















































Do you know how long my husband hasn't had a job? Ever since he got back from the army.





















- Take it! When a woman is pregnant, she will not be arrested until the child is six months old.

Kids are a great thing. The one with the kids, the one with the vision. - Too bad we don't have kids.



No, there's something about kids. You know what the most beautiful thing in the world is? A man comes home and his wife says, "We're having a baby."




We fell in love, well, that's what happened.





I'll never forget that night.


"If you have 15 kids like me, what are you gonna live on?"




When the baby's born, I'm gonna get some rest...



















































The baby was born on October 28.













- Another kid?






















Seven kids make so much noise you can't sleep at night.


















- Go to Uncle Pasquale, my dear.























































































































If that's the case, who's gonna feed our kids?






- I really want her.

- You don't want any more kids?




Another kid!
Really? And you want me to take a look at your husband?





















I'm gonna write him a prescription, make him a nutritional diet. You'll see, next year you'll have a baby.























Honey! - Yes. But where's Carmine?
- He's with his mother's kids.


- Oh, honey!








I thought you were my husband's best friend!



Kids!











This one's for mothers and kids.







- Here's the underwear for the baby.


























































The children are healthy, I love her, and I wrote to Rome about a pardon.


Counselor, is it true that you've collected all the money?









































It's true, I've been pardoned, I'm free, Fragolina!





- Are you happy to be back with the kids?










- I'm just gonna pack up and get the kids!









- How did the kids take the news?




























Don't think about it! Verace's lawyer promised to find me a job.















A night with the Americans.











Honey! He's got a nice and serious face.


My darling! He's got such short socks!










































He's like one of his cars: money, success, work.
Work, success, money.




































































































































































Rome Insurance Company - 295,000 300. Does he really drive 240 an hour?





















Wait for me tonight.





























Don't worry, I'll have the papers by tonight. There's only one signature left.











After eating, rest time, and you can talk for an hour tonight.














Priests in America always have a lot of kids.



































- I've got a normal, really old one.





Come here, darling, come here!
















- Good evening, Signora.








































































I'm quiet and decent! Really! If it wasn't for you.




























The adorable foot of a beautiful woman enters the ray of light.















"Dear Signora."
What a darling!
Why is it expensive?












































































































- Even the truth.













































































































Tell him I told the truth about you.
Grandma told the truth.
It's all true.



















Tell him I told the truth.

Is it true that you make more than a million lire a month?
Yeah, really, really.









Isn't that right, Umberto?





























But, darling, the holy vow is a holy vow.






























































































I've invited some colleagues and their friends, some I don't know at all.













Everyone meets each other early and late at someone's party.











And women to stand.







What do you think of the women here?






















Under the minaretes, you can see wooden houses with closed windows where women are hidden...



They brought women prisoners as slaves from the coasts of Sicily and Portugal... for the pleasure of the Sultanate.


























Have you seen a woman here before you got here?














Women aren't allowed to pray here anyway.











Then he came up to me and asked me if I'd seen a woman.





















The old man said no woman went inside.

































































































































Or tonight... before I came... someone called me?
































You remember that young woman...







There are young women here...









Sometimes... friends... at women's meetings.




You seemed to have a lot to say to each other that day.

















Yes, yes... I understand... a blonde young woman in a white car...






















































This young woman is dark, very dark.




You're wasting your time, my dear friend.



Every woman...






































Tell me... about that young woman...










A woman... here... with me...


A woman...







































































































































































The women were locked in the harems... the ancient...

Women are very naughty, he made me die...










If you're interested in this beautiful car, I'll give it to you even cheaper as a friend.



We're all friends here.

Did you also know a young woman... who died in an accident, an accident?

































Do you remember... the woman in the white car?


A piece of useless land with runaway goats... and kids playing marble on the trails...
















































































































































































- For not letting kids on the weed?

















































My young friend, your words are not only highly implausible, but also economically ill-founded.






He needs some fun tonight, some friendship.

























Are you looking for trouble, my friend?




































































































Officer Nestor Patou. Delivered 16 women suspected of debauchery.



































He didn't lose his head, but he did lose his gun, but he did get it back.






















I've been looking for a job, I've gone to all the offices, the customs office, the janitor, but since you've been dismissed with shame, you won't even be allowed to wash the gutters.













Life is war, my friend.




































- Go work. I haven't won all night.
















































































Very good work.






















































You want my friend to beat you up again?



- Of course. Really, I don't like fighting people who aren't my size.






















I know you're good at it, but a girl like that has a lot of work to do.
It's not a job, it's a profession.





You're not like that, are you?










































I have to get a job.
- What do you mean, work? - I can find something at the market.
























I've seen a lot of women, but none of them compares to Irma!



































- Just quit my job and upset all my clients? - What the hell is wrong with them?




- She's got the best place. - We don't have time for each other at all.
















Really?
































































































No, no, no, honey, it's not necessary.



Let me be curious, darling. Do you think I'm disgusting?


























































Here you go, my dear.



















Oh, I'm sorry, but I really have to catch the plane, or Lady X and this pathetic gardener will be pissed off.
































- That sounds like the truth.
























































Good morning, darling. - Good morning.





























- My darling!




- What is it, my dear?





























All of you, both of you, but I'm sure you won't want to leave your friend.



































- I don't think we were introduced to each other.





























































































































What, darling, so important do you want to tell me?














Not at all, darling.








































- They're beautiful, aren't they?
















You see an eastern woman whose face is covered with veils.



















You'll be gentle with me, won't you?












Yes, but... I wanted to say that.....I wouldn't be completely honest with you, dear Irma, if...

















































































































































Why not just tell them the truth?



Prison is full of innocent people because they were telling the truth.


















It's true.



Nestor, is that true?




















- 15 years of lousy work, for what?



















She's having a baby.
The baby?
































- You want our baby to be legitimate.






- Yes, darling.




Yeah, because it's not our baby, you're not his father.







- Women always know these things.







































































































I'd love to... but only if I got my job back on the playground.

Work for nothing? I love kids.































































Give your consent tomorrow at six o'clock in the evening."






Come with us, my dear Cocanten, with a sip of fresh spring air.


















My dear Jacqueline, may I introduce you to Monsieur Cocanten, our guest tomorrow.





































You have one night left to find out who wrote these letters.




















Dear friends, I want to tell you the news, the big news and the happy news.

This evening we are also celebrating the engagement of my daughter Jacqueline and Viconta Amori de la Rochfontaine.


















Madame... these letters are true.










Jacqueline, darling, Monsieur is right.





















My only friend.




Marie-Jeanne is a wonderful woman.
And she loves kids.




























































































































That's the woman.





























- The woman's locked up there.


They found out from somewhere that I served your family with faith and truth.






































The woman in this photo is the nun who kidnapped Alice's mother from the ambulance.






























Go to your dear daddy because he means so much to you.














































No, my dear Marie, that's impossible.




































































Oh, really... I have to go to the TV tape!



































Why don't you try telling the truth?
It's the pure truth. The camera can't lie.


Anyway, it's true!

















We need more time to find this woman.


But there are more than 10 million people in Tokyo, and five of them are women.


































































But my father... is it true that he died?























































You should accompany these men and women. They're slaves now.






























Now, you'll finally see the truth.














We advise you to stop working as an underwater fortress.





































































Then why did you chase a woman?





















































































Really...?



Children should not think about what their parents should or should not do.









































Kosumi, it's a little weird, isn't it?














Isn't your daughter beautiful?















































































Really, it's a powerful ship.





































































Dad has to make a difference for the baby.











































































































































































































































Someone had to explain to the kids why there was nothing to eat at home.












He might get a job.
































Did you really get through all the entrances?









But if you call it French pork chops, like in expensive restaurants, it tastes so much better.

























































































You can't run with those flyers tonight!








































































































































Johnny has a friend at home with a tripper!








Oh, my dear!

























































































It's for those who can send their child to the doctor, even if he just choked on the pretzel.

Is their appendix worth more than ours?















































They say having children is a joy for the poor.























































When you win, you have too many friends, Dad.











Franz got the job, not me.







- The most expensive cognac of my life...




































































































Tickets are so expensive, you don't even have to climb.























































I don't have to buy expensive food.
































































- Is it true that Dad's wearing a commercial?






















- Really?







It was very expensive.








For old people, coffee, for kids, lemonade.






















When you can't afford to keep your kids.

There were others who could afford and could have children because they had men to rely on.





































































































































































































































































































Just like the kids. A bunch of kids.






























































































































































































































Maybe it doesn't make any sense. Here on the island.




































































We're not gonna let anything happen to Piggy. Really?



Really.





























































































































































































































































































































































































































































- Are you telling the truth?
- Who's your friend?














- What's your friend in danger?






- We're friends!





- No, I have no desire to change my job.


























































































































- A woman who uses the race as a way to choose a husband... who shares his life with her,








































- Are you telling the truth?




























- God of the night, you're my witness that I'm telling the truth.


























- My dear friend, I can swim with them.









































































- Look, Chelima, are you really sure about my love for you?


- Maybe we won't see each other again tonight or the next night.



- I'm a foreigner, but I have to try.










- After you told me another woman could get between us.







- But how can a woman confess her love?
- A woman who loves as much as I love you, yes.

















- Don't you know women?










































































It's easy to confuse a woman's heart, it's her gods.


As long as I remain in power, my kingdom will be Kafaos' friend.



























- Really, she has another reason to win.














































































































































The gladiators got into the dungeon... and released the women.























































- No, my friends.







































































- It's true.



































- Let's not talk about our friends' victims for nothing.






































- Then why did you stay alive with your friends?

























































































- Come out my dear.















































If you don't get the tea, when you get home from work, you're gonna have to kill yourself.





























It's where old people always complain to each other or gossip.












































The baby adds weight while he sleeps, doesn't it?





























You've spent your whole life trying to teach kids. Planting the seeds of knowledge...














- What does your friend Abani's wife do?



Do you think I'm good for being a teacher?

That's not gonna work. What kind of job can I get with my college year?
Who told you to get a job?

















If you were less attractive, maybe I'd like you to go to work.
Go on! If a girl like you worked in an office, it would interfere with everyone else's work, wouldn't it?
There's an English saying-- a woman's place-- home.

















I'm gonna do the best job I know enough to do.














I'm trying to find a job. But you don't tell anyone yet.



- What's the job?














And a smart and attractive girl to work as a salesgirl?








It means, let's file a job application together.
- I'll print it at work and bring it back. And you're gonna sign.


































































Look, I've got clients in front of me. Leave your job for a while.


























Arati got a job.



- Work.
- Did she get the job?
It's a good job.


She's supposed to start work next month.
She's got a job as a saleswoman.



And then she'll leave her job.











As soon as I get a better job, it'll stop.











You're against this job?




How am I gonna go to work with my torn shoes?










Pint, darling.




Do you know what Bernard Shaw said about working women?

















The ones you want, the baby.

























- I'm a little busy working.



















If you can meet women, show them this booklet, talk to them, and show them the machine, your work will be successful.





At lunch, when women rest, the salesmen knock and bother them.

See for yourself, it's all part of your work.












After work, wait for me.
































I don't have a job or money.



































I have little kids in the house.



Sit here for a while, darling.
I'm coming. My youngest child is sick.



It's true that homeopathy works a little slowly...










I heard about this car, but I didn't see it at work.
















































































We had a deal, didn't we?


- How do you like your job?

I like her, too. Your job.











































He said my job was very successful.








He lived his life teaching children.
Now he doesn't have a job.

















Yeah, the baby?

























Keeps you at work.







To do that, he needs to find faults in my work.
So what's your job?








If you saw me at work, you wouldn't recognize me.













I need your favor. If you can help as a friend.


I need a job.
- Work?


- Why? Don't you have a job?

Some kind of part-time job for Rs. 70-75. Any job.

I really need a job.
I see. Who told you to get a job over the phone?








I'm not sure about the job. But I can buy American cigarettes, recently arrived.



















Come on, baby.





Why does she go to work?




















Leave your job.

I called a friend today and he guaranteed me a job.









I'll tell you later, baby.




You know what this good job of yours did?





You really don't want me to work?

















Of course I will, baby.



It's hard to get a job. It's easy to quit.





































I've seen your work.
I want to start working on a group system. And I want you to be the leader of the band.










I lost my job. The bank's closed.

I'll explain tonight.










- He lost his job.












That's why I gave you a more responsible job.

















Tell your husband not to go to the next job at another stupid bank. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to go through all this again.

























It wasn't his fault he lost his job.
The job's gone, and he's got to find another one.

But why did he make you go to work?

I made up my mind. I really like the job.














I'll get a job somewhere.

You're still a little kid.








You're not gonna say it didn't work out well, are you?

I went to see a friend who promised me a part-time job.










































After all, you're like your own children to me.




















One of my colleagues hasn't been on the job for days.





































Really?


















- And now I have to do all your work.
- What job?






























It's a good job.










They won't leave women any jobs?






Work! He's a workaholic.

He leaves at 6:00 a.m. and returns at 6:00 p.m.
Does he have a business or a job?





I insisted on my job on my own whim.
















Truth be told, I feel guilty when I see pedestrians.







Please don't mind me, Mrs. Mazumdar, but every woman has some kind of delusion.






















Don't act like a little kid, okay?























































































Your wife likes her job?





The truth may be a little different.
Anyway, your wife had to take over her job.






Have you ever thought about working with your husband and wife in the same office?




Don't you want a job?




I have a job and you don't.




Meet me tonight. About 5: 00 - 5:30. Is that convenient?
































When I realized you could handle her job, I decided to fire her.















If you lose your job, then what?











I lost my job.
Lost your job?































So many places to work.
Can't one of us get a job?

I'm sure both you and I will find a job.
































We've seen some women.













Women can come to us for water.

















When a man wants a woman, he makes a fire for her.

Real men build a fire for women.


















































A woman is like a flowering garden, she dies without water.




















I'm a married woman and my husband will be back soon.




































A man makes a fire for a woman when he really wants her.
































































Sheriff, arrest this woman.










Fifth Avenue, business girl's best friend.
Part of her job is to copy clothes for the rich and sell them to the poor.

Every night she walks the most expensive jungle in the world.





























It's like a baby.


I don't have children.


Who says I don't have children?
In this building, all my children



















Nothing can be too much for my kids.
















































- That's where I met that blonde to tell you the truth, I don't even know her name.















He wrote his best work in a boudoir, feathered on his mistress' naked back.
















Look, about your wife, I'm really sorry.































































































To tell you the truth, I'm here in exile.











































Why wouldn't a woman wear a leopard downstairs?



The woman I met at the men's room.





























Things from boutiques look as good as expensive originals.

Dear no woman will save money on clothes in Paris.
































Scentimeter, darling.


































- Honey, do you dance a twist?
































































































































And we've been fighting the infection all night.





















It's Saint Catherine's Festival, the patron saint of all single women who work in the shops of a ready-made dress.
Fashion salons throw parties, girls dance with each other.






- You see, darling, all these women are looking for a husband, just like me.
















The truth of Saint Catherine demands that these young ladies be completely pure and innocent.
















































I'd work as a slave all day if I was waiting to meet you tonight.





























































































Okay, that's true.



















You have to face the truth.











































Of course the monsieur is a hermit, but look around us we are on the Elysée fields at this time in this place you can see the most beautiful women in the world.

These women are important, cold themselves.


















She's an expensive listener.
One of the most expensive.












Then maybe you'll show some kindness and sympathy to my dear friend, he's also from America.
















And after all this time, women...



It's been decided, but it's been a little difficult just to negotiate a conversation, but she's used to freaking out.































































































I've been to a lot of amazing nights, but then...























Monsieur, I assure you, all I have told you is the absolute truth.







If that's true, I just have to give you a ride.










Of course, darling, he was just a student back then.




































That's exactly what any man would believe about any woman.






Maybe it would be right to tell him the truth right away because now he's gonna hate me for making a fool out of him.





I don't know if I called it right. But that's what they call those women in the Women's Journal.


































































Oh, honey, it's Paris and I don't have any friends like that.




Well, I once had a memorial night with Count de Bove.











- Zizi, that's what friends call him-- which, of course, you attribute yourself to.


"Honey, the Countess has gone to Biarrica.


Oh, of course not, no, my dear, I said...










































Steve, Steve, I really wanted to tell you the truth.







I took a cold shower and went back to work.










Joe, my dear, gave it to me last night. We just ordered onion soup with this thing.






Honey, darling, I hope you don't mind me going to the press to report our engagement.








The joke all my friends read from the paper about.

You mean it's true?

Oh, darling, it's Paris.
All the women here are sinning it, but it doesn't mean anything.

































There's still something else.

You want to know what you can do with your job...



































I've got my job back and I'm going back to New York tomorrow.














Besides, I owe you for helping me with my job and someone to replace her.











And I was gonna apologize to him for everything and tell him the whole truth today, no matter what, and he decided to introduce me to his buddy by passing it over like an empty cigar box.















They'll love each other.




















What do you think would happen if I went to him right now and told him the truth, the whole truth?
































































































You want to have a nice night?






























She's a stupid fool who made me believe all this, why didn't you tell me the truth?





Happy bachelor, in the prime of life, all women are ready to give it up like a meal on a Swedish table.













- And women as mothers.











I wasn't sure I'd find you on your old mess tonight.
Why, I spend every night in this cafe waiting to bring me life.







Really?











After, after darling, and it's gonna be a lot more expensive.








































Oh, I hate crying women.
Stupid, fashionable women with headaches and other things I wanted to be above all this.






I'm a grown woman and it's my last night in Paris and damn it, I love you.








You're the first girl in my life I want to ask to be the mother of my children.













And also friends of the director :





















Myocardial design provides a coherent and smooth heart function.









































- No, it's my friend.


















I'll come by tonight.
































Don't be afraid of anything, darling.

























































































Patient's a woman, she's 25.




































































































































I was a gifted child...












































































At first we didn't know, he went to work...








































I'll be back by tonight.






















































Kids don't look like me...





































































































At least the kids have to see Budapest, anyway.








I really didn't understand anything.











He taught them no work, no trade, no filth, he taught them nothing, nor sow, nor walk behind cattle, but he taught them one:









...A loving father could no longer wait for his dear sons, and he caught a cat and went on a journey to search for his nine beloved sons.



























And he didn't teach them any work, but he only taught them one thing:



































































We have to find this woman.








We have to find this woman.










Have fun, kids.


Hello, darling!


















Good evening.














We'll be here for a few days, darling.













Oh, I'm sorry, darling.




I wonder how many women can save on a household to buy a beautiful mink coat like this?


Oh, I'm just in love, darling.
My dear.
- Sorry, my dear. Please, I'm sorry.






- Yes. I'm so sorry, darling.



Bye, darling.
It's okay, my dear.








































Good evening.






Your Highness. Good evening, Sir Charles.





























Don't even try to play with your muscles, darling.


Good evening, sir.
- Honey, can I have a cigarette?
- Yes, of course, my dear.











Yes, darling. And lean forward.
Sorry, honey.

Are you okay, my dear?



Yes, darling.




Really!
It's true!















Woman:

Sir Charles' predecessor was forced to climb the balconies and fight on duel, and I understand he never introduced his ladies to each other.

















But it's true. Who knows? But I don't agree with you.














Honey, can you get me another blanket?
Yes, darling.
There you go, darling.
- Jacques? - Yes, darling?

- What, my dear?
I'm sorry, honey, but it's not helping.












Honey? Honey, I need to talk to you.
Honey, I sent Jacques for milk.

















My darling, my darling.

My dear, your feet are like two pieces of ice.





I hope it's better if we're friends.









Yes, darling? I don't know what this is about.





Don't worry, darling.


Of course, darling.



- Yes, darling?




Okay, darling.




Here you go, darling.






















































- Really? That's what I said.
Also, you didn't tell me the truth.





























I have friends from downstairs.






















What kind of friend are you after this?



I thought we were friends.


Friends behave differently.
Do you want us to be friends, Charlie, or do you want to win?
You want to know the truth?




























Really? What is it?

"Dear Uncle Charles, don't worry about anything.
















































































































Well, I thought after last night...






- I really don't remember anything.

It's true.
You know, most women when they clean up the liquor and it looks like there's no obstacle. Then they wake up feeling guilty, and they think they can restore their virtue... saying, "I don't remember."





That makes you a woman.

Maybe, but after what I just told you, a real woman would slap me.

Friends again? Now at least you have to let me... take you to the station. - Friends.
























































































Really?






































When I get old, darling, you'll be absorbed in the care of your grandkids.
You should at least have kids.

















































Sorry, honey.
Emergency work.





Honey.
Honey, don't move.


















- No, a woman spoke in me.
This time, you've chosen a charming woman to sacrifice yourself.

Yeah, you really got a woman talking about you.

Competition always makes women more natural.




























You're the deviliest woman I've ever met.
















- "Dear"?






- Yes, darling?


Oh, darling, did you hurt yourself?












- It's okay, honey.





Honey.
Yes, darling.

Honey, maybe I should take a bath.







Okay, my dear.




Hello, darling.








Don't, darling.

Honey, we shouldn't have secrets from each other.
Yeah, I know, honey.

Oh, you're so sweet, darling.


















If they find out, I'll lose my job.



- Yes, darling?







Just a minute, darling.

- Honey, listen to me.




If you don't turn around... but, darling.



Yes, dear, but I can't help you. I can't open it.


There's nothing here, darling.











Why aren't you in bed yet, darling?

I mean... I just came from there, darling.










I'm sure not, darling.








Honey, my baby... (LAUGHS)
(GROANING) Honey? What's the matter?






On the street minus ten, darling.

Yes, darling. Yes.













Good evening.

Oh, I'm sorry, darling, I wanted to surprise you, that's all.
Yeah, this evening is full of surprises.





No, don't, darling.








































Good evening, Inspector.















- Really?














But as you must know, I have an appointment tonight.












I don't drink at work.









How dare you drink at work?
















































Honey.




You know, honey, you've never danced with me before, my angel.
Sorry, honey.








Excuse me, dear, but I need to speak to Lord Cravenwood.






































(WOMAN SIGHS) Watch your step!











































































































Thousands of people, and mostly women, gathered here in the hope of catching Sir Charles Litton's eyes, the man who is accused of being the notorious Ghost.




Don't worry, darling.




Ghost has become part of my life and work.





















































So it's the inspector.
(MAN CHUCKLES) Woman:





Thank you, darling.
















































Hey, you kids, screaming with contempt, rage and hate.


Listen to me, you kids screaming "Long live freedom!"

Black evenings of Paris :












These are our mothers, our children and grandchildren, our old parents, the same figures.













Someone needs to think about thousands of black, black, black-eyed children.




































































































































































It's a terrible load, young comrades, because it's a load of truth, even if you don't say it.




































































But you continued to be a child, just as foolish as in ancient times, as cruel as in the future, and between you and your beauty, in your power, a stupid and cruel future is fading.










Ah, children!



































I'm telling you, this is my main and greatest duty, because, friends and enemies, politicians and poets, the revolution needs only one war, war, knowing the ideas that will be left behind.



























But he just couldn't say no to his friend, Swanny.































































Johnny, I want to love a normal reporter who has a normal job.














Because you're only required to do your part, darling.



































And it's true.



Darling, my love






















Good evening.
































































- You love her like a woman, don't you?

























As a reporter, have you ever written an article... where a man became very excited every time he saw a woman... with long and loose hair?



































































































You came at one o'clock looking for friends.


It gives them the opportunity to make new friends.
Women have their own street, too.

















You're not gonna be a troublemaker, are you?

























































- What am I, a child?


























































































Married, two kids, a hobby, golf.













He told me I shouldn't love her like a woman.

































































































































































You wrote to your father that the Russians were your friends.























They gave me a woman.










































































































































































- Your friend? - Nope.







- Visiting a friend.
- So I'm a friend.















































Thanks, man.
It's okay, man.






Mark Twain is my friend.
























- Your friend.
























We're gonna show this bastard that they can't breathe our white air... and go to school with our white kids.





















































































It's their model, the birth of lynching... a disease that brings premature children.
These poor, sick kids... learn to depend on their parents' claws... instead of loving them.



The woman raised her baby because he couldn't reach... and hit me with her fist.
















































































































You can stretch your legs on the street when you meet your friends.












Now he's got the brain of the 6th kid.




























It's a really professional job.


He's got a kid's mind, but his hands... his hands are grown-up.


































































I was downstairs in the kitchen with two friends, and we were under the table.





Because of sexual addiction to demented women... in the women's ward.


































































































































I'm here at work!















































Patients who behave well are allowed to meet each other in the hallway.












































































































Move over, I don't have enough room to work.
































































Nobody says the job has to be interesting, you stubborn ass!










Comrade suggested that I share it with nine friends, so I only own a tenth of the boat.



















If you did your job honestly, I wouldn't have to raise others.








If it's a permanent job, it's good, but it's only for a year!




























































You don't even have friends to tell them about your plans. I'm the only one who realizes how much this boat means to you.
















- The boat, it must be expensive.
- It's very expensive.











But maybe I should tell your friends.

Even friends have finally started to say...



What are you looking for, darling?



I know. It's just like my friends.



























There's enough work for the whole day.



































































Really?




















It doesn't mean you have to look at the world with their eyes, but remember, these are your friends and family, okay?
























































They were so expensive!






































































































































































































His friends were worried, too, so four days ago they started looking.


































































































- It's true...
























Maybe tonight.












































A man and a woman made love right in front of me.





- Is that true?

















Not tonight.

















How wonderful that we don't understand each other.










































































Maybe for your job?





























































































All right, come on, come on, my children.






But you can't come with me. Women aren't allowed in there.
















































































Resting alone highlights the work of the others.










It's true that we served ourselves, almost everywhere. But we fought.









































That's all I could shoot at my friends.



















Anybody you want to get away from work.




















You've been doing all kinds of work, too.






You have a lot of friends.
















Good evening!








































































Sorry, it's an old friend of mine.


Were you able to catch your friend?


I'll see him at the office tonight.























































































He made it more expensive, that's all.


























Uh... and this free job you were talking about... what exactly is it about?



































A poor woman who needs them to feed her children?





































































You must have a lot of work to do! There are so many churches in Paris! 150.













- Let's get to work, guys! - Get to work!


Here's my friend Kushra.


























































































I'm a friend of the cops.


- From morning to evening?































































I'm so bored with my job!















Oh, it's true.
























































































I can't let myself be locked up every night.















































- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening, buddy!
Good evening, everyone! Good evening, everyone!






Yeah, that's right! Good evening, everyone! Come on!

But tell me, is all this money for some kind of job?
Heaven never abandons its children.
























We're overloaded with work.













































My father, were we friends?



And you don't like your job too much?





















But rest well, my dear Georges!































Let's get to work!
Good evening, St Antoine.





















































And in return, please return my friend Raoul's freedom!
































Adults Merciful of Children's Leprosy














































A young woman, more like a girl, disappeared from the village.






























































































































































- I'm fine, darling.































































In due course, she's the owner of one of Lyon's expensive establishments.






























































































Is that true?










































































You'll feel the difference, darling.
How can you say no to such friends?

I'm hungry for my friends, buddy.




That's where you're wrong, darling. 10 francs for a couple, skin from Russia.
















































































Really, Madame Clara...



One friend.






















































































































And the woman?



































































He's just a kid.








































































































We arrived late last night after a 12-hour flight.


















They say he killed a lot of women... tormenting them to death in the Nürnberg Virgin.










She's like a child.


























- You know you're still sick, darling.








Trust me, it's true!














You'll stay in bed, my dear.





























Yeah, I was just a kid.









- Nothing, darling.
































You'll be doing all the work for a while.
























- You're not German, are you? - That's right.



























Really.
























Again, he will cast fear into the hearts of shameless women.
































I don't think Herr Max will want to come back to you tonight.




























I wish it wasn't true, because otherwise...













































Wake up, darling.


















After that, you'll be able to find out the truth.







That's awful. Maybe it's better that you know the truth.

- But it's true, I swear! - Max!




















































You don't know what happened. You don't know the truth.












































































I need a job.





































Otherwise, look for a job elsewhere.
I don't keep an insolent jumper at work!








































































































































Why expensive shoes?































































The kids aren't thinking.











So we can be strong enough to get the kids there.





I want the kids to go to school and go to school.


























And you're going to experiment on yourself, is that true?













Dear friend, only the gods see me all.































I left my own research. I won't let you talk to me like a child.







































Dr. ' I think after this evening, you can call me Diane.













At first, I didn't want this job, and then I said yes.

















































































Dr. Ekzevier can't speak, but his work speaks for him.
His work can be repeated by others, without him.

I must confess to you, Doctor, that I do not believe in continuing this work.































































My eyesight is going through, so I'm coming back, but tonight I saw very clearly, very deeply.





















































Remember, I'm a woman.















































































- He was my friend.



























This evening you'll remember for the rest of your life!









































































- Whatever. He's doing his job.

























Maybe he wouldn't let people do each other's evils.

♪ I'm telling the world the truth ♪

















- just as many naked women as my poor eyes could see.

























































































She's old and smart. I'm a woman.

























































I've known the truth for a while.






































































































We're really God's children.

































































































































I hope you're not like your friend.




That's not true.





















































































































































For telling the truth, but fire doesn't live in people.
And Kal's telling the truth that we're gonna die without fire.
Will my father listen to the woman?






















































































































































































































Don't be a kid.






























































The women will go in the middle, and I will go in the back.






















One of those women.




































I'm your friend.

Friend.

Friend?






































What about the old woman who opened our hands?



































































- You want a woman to do it for you.



































And the woman left with them.




For being so weak that a woman speaks for him.






























The leader who killed the old woman?




























His name is Friend.






They were like mothering their child.


The young man whose name is Friend spoke to me.






























Your name is Friend?


Har said your name was Friend. I'm in.


















































































































































- Is that your baby?







But it's a baby...



























It's a little kid.



































































It's a little baby!
What does that have to do with a kid?



























































































































































Tonight was the most boring night of my life.
































































































































Ask your friend Max.

Romans, fellow citizens and friends! Listen to why I did this...
















There's only so much quiet in the cemetery, darling.







- It's true.































What are you like with your sister's friends?



Look, tell me the truth.























Really?



















There's one wish of my friends that I guess without mistake.























Don't forget your best friend.




























- If I ask you something, will you tell me the truth?

















Now you know the truth. Are you mad at me?




























































Please, I need your help, woman in trouble.
I see you in binoculars, you're not a woman, you're a girl.
































That's a good idea. What else am I supposed to do with you? I'll send your father a ransom letter.








































I think so, but they're all like each other, easy to make a mistake.





































It's true.




































Not all of this is true, but I think she gave them a reason.














Unfortunately, my job, too. There's not often a way to get out of here.



























Look, since we're friends now, tell me how old you are.

































- Isn't there a lot of them?
















Really!


























Same job, same money.

Same job as any other job. The first ship is the port of destination in North America. And for two years, you've seen nothing but North America itself.







Max, don't forget that when your friends are around, you...


























You shouldn't be lonely with a friend like Freddie.
- Or is he not your friend?
- A friend and one.








A high school friend of mine stole silverware more than once.





We've already become friends.






The summer time, the time of the year, in which the wonderful dawns, the silent evenings, and the indistinguishable astral days combine bizarrely.










Given that I've been sunk into blankets as a child, I can hardly get up in the next month.



It's the same as last night... except you showed up.







Really, I can't figure out what that style is.















































- Why didn't you tell the truth?








Or even easier, you could've told me the truth.

Don't cry, my dear, please don't cry.



















































































Last night.






















































































































- violated, I went down, the limits of the limitless, and stopped for a break from that jelly of work.

I've got a lot of movement and noise coming back to me as a friend.


My heart turned into a friend from a terrible hunch, and I almost lost my senses.




































































Love feeling, meeting a woman.













The woman has blonde hair.
The woman he meets is also Calcutta.






















































The woman from Calcutta has blonde hair.




































































































Oh, honey, honey, honey!




































I'm afraid it's gonna take a new one, honey... and it's gonna take a few days!














































Thank you, my dear.












































































































































































I'm sorry, I have a lot of work to do and...





I'm asking you to listen to me! But I have a job to do!





























Really? No! No! Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,



















































You really know your subject!




















Woman, how did you get here?
































- About the woman who was here.






















































































Great performance, my dear, congratulations!


































































































I think he knows more about his father's work.


My dear lady, that would be great!



- Charming woman.































































































































































































































































It's beautiful, isn't it?







































This friend of yours is a young teacher very resourceful.












- Where are my friends? - Safe.














































Over the years, all my friends, all my followers, have left.
























































- Oh, really?























































































































































I'm not a gram of curiosity, my dear.










































Goodbye, my friend.























What happened, my friend?











































Well, my friend, are you feeling better?

























































































John's there with your friends.





















































































My dear Chesterton, they read these thoughts, so everything we think is very important.























We've known each other for a long time. We were meant for each other.








































Even if my father was a thief, and my mother is stupid. Poor woman, she's so stupid, she can't understand anything and nobody,

































Yeah, it's true!










Is that true?





I got a job.













- No, man.



These kids always swim right after they eat.





































His friends and friends in mourning clothes.













































































































































































Tell me the truth!

You can love the things a woman usually hides.













If you listen, you can hear women.
- What women?






























































Very nice, isn't it?





































She's my friend.








Really?











But he realized that only children could be taught anything.



















































He married her, they had many children, and they lived together for 20 years.














































































































A WOMAN IS A WOMAN
You could win a woman like that.



















"A woman is a woman," more interesting than Litzani movies or even Rossi.












A woman is a woman.







I'm just a bore who lists a lot of movies, and tonight you need to be alone.
















Although I really don't care anymore.

























It's true.






The truth is, he treated me like a whore.











Together with their women, their children, their families...












Honey!
My dear friend.
My friend!











If you try to solve it, we won't be friends anymore.













































Any job I'd do would be like stealing.





















































See, my friends?











I felt that even for us children of bourgeoisia, there was no way out.















































A world of soul mates ready to protect each other.



































































































That's why you left, isn't it?


















This morning? Really? Yeah, it's a quarter to seven when we were already leaving for work.





We're changing! Don't worry, I've seen so many naked women in my life that I've seen all kinds of women.




Well, the rich, the happy, leave me alone! Look, here's what I wanted to tell you tonight's gonna be a new guy at work, apprentice.













Anyway, some of them sometimes try to steal something from such thieves, obviously very little, but they are, you know, your job is to keep an eye on our buyers. But remember, you have to keep an eye on them so they don't notice.

Look, it's a very useful job, there's nothing wrong with it!
















At work.
At work? Yes.
It's true, I was at work.






























I went to a woman there, and she said I had to go after him.

Why would you talk to a woman?





So you weren't at work.






You should have gone back to work.

Or do you think you can do anything that comes to mind? Can you quit your job and go home?




Peter is still a child...
I'm not a child! Of course you're not a child!






Go through today's stores, see who's working there? Only women.


You can't hope for women! They're getting married and quitting their jobs!



If you get to work in a couple of years, you can be the boss there! Chief, you know.







Monday you're going to work. You're gonna apologize, and everything's gonna be okay.



A friend, I wish they had a fire!





We'd get women out of bed! Well, yes, of course.
































Wait, he comes in and says, "Good evening, beautiful lady.



















So what are you thinking? I really can't tell you that.












































What are you doing tonight?
I want to go out tonight. Come with me?



























Really! I didn't do it on purpose!




Well, let's go out tonight.












































































Good evening, Mr. Brigadier.
And, really, he's kind. Wonderful.




































Thanks, man. Don't worry, I'll return it. Thank you.



































But if you're friends with him, why can't you talk to her about him?















































Good evening. Good evening, son.


















I'm telling the truth!











But here, the truth is clear, you know.




























No, really.




























































But she knows what she's doing. She knows everything, my dears!










There are very few of them. There's only women working for us! And all the guys want to be astronauts, astronauts,





















Like a woman.
What woman?






Talk to them! Oh, my God. There's nothing wrong with seeing a naked woman in the painting.





































It's hard to determine the age of a woman.

















"Boy, tell everyone, "Good evening!" I don't know. Like I wouldn't have known without her!




















What's the point of your job? Stop and watch
It's not a job.
Stop and watch. Why not work?
















Yeah, it's okay. There's a woman who stole something.












So you didn't do anything? Look, maybe you're in some kind of trouble at work or with your boss?


No, really, no.
Tell the truth!

No trouble, I'm telling you the truth.

This is the last time I've asked you. Are you in trouble at work?



































Peter, you loved this job so much, and all of a sudden you don't like it... how can you...















































Eat, don't be shy. No, no, I have to go, really...





















































































































Now let's shake this sadness, we still have some work to do.







Oh, we just got carried away with some paperwork.















































Buck, honey, I can't sleep either.











































































What if it's true?








































































































































The truth isn't always a nice thing.














































I don't support the work of imperialist puppets.




































































































































































































But the decisive factor was that your country was doing similar work and we were afraid of the Day of Judgment!



Dr. Stranger, do we have anything like this in our work?

Under a copyright grant, I, as Director of Arms Research and Development, was authorized to study this project last year.































Mandreake, do you realize that in addition to the fluorination of water, work is under way on the fluorination of salt, the flour of fruit juices, soup, sugar, milk, ice cream?






















Women feel my power and they're looking for the essence of life.
I'm not avoiding women, Mandrake.







These guys were like kids to me.



















































































































































































































































































































































































































































But with appropriate breeding techniques and a ratio of, let's say ten women to each man, they could work and return to the existing gross national product within 20 years.






Doctor, you mentioned the ratio of ten women to each man.




I am in a hurry to add that, since every man will have to be responsible for the woman's manufacturer, she will have to be selected for their sexual characteristics, which will have to have a high incentive factor.

































I was a friend of the late Santa.

But I thought you... well, you two weren't like each other.

























All Santa's friends are like sons to me.



































- Why are you so early from work?






















- She'll only be here tonight.

I came by motorcycle with my friend. He'll be picking me up soon.















I work in the middle of the day, I work in the middle of the night.














She's out of touch, but to tell you the truth, no one's looking at her.









My friend was supposed to come pick me up...



















I was trembling at the thought that I would read the words of love in it." "Dear Mara, I'm sending you some salt with this letter."





















He wrote about his work and everything.
































- Good evening, women!













































Good evening!



I had a lot of work to do.















He assured everyone that he was fighting fascism, and he had a picture in his office of... King Mussolini's best friend.



































































































































- Really?






















































- Poor woman, she's telling the truth! - Don't touch me!
















- Come here, Signorina, darling.















































I can't sleep with women.


- Yeah, but they're women!



- Excuse me, signorina, I'm a friend of Bebo's, Lidori.




















































Bebe, tell the truth.













































It's always supposed to kiss each other in the morning.






You're pushing me away, aren't you?

























- Good evening.























Bebo, tell me the truth.












So we're the last night together.




































You have friends.







































Do you really think he'll ever come back?













It's not a sin to have a little fun after a hard job like this.




















































- Really?


























- You're jealous, aren't you?





















You know... I really wanted to see you, but you said good-bye to me so cold that night.


And today, your eyes are so sad... I'm sure there's some kind of trouble, isn't there?



I got a letter from that girl. Remember, I told you about her that night.






































- Really? - Mm-hmm.





- It must be hard work.


















But we're still strangers to each other.






































On the 2nd of June, we will all come as one to the ballot boxes and put the ballot papers down. - And the truth is, if there's a republic, can he come back?


















































































The date lasts a quarter of an hour... you don't have to get close to each other.












You're not afraid, are you?










Your friends will help you.








































We shouldn't have secrets from each other.






























Who is this woman in black?
- It's the sergeant's widow. She filed a lawsuit. - That's bad, isn't it?



















Your friends will pay him.
- I wish I didn't have friends like that. - How can you say that?















- Don't say that, Bebe, darling! The trial's coming!












Swear you'll tell the truth. Just the truth, nothing but the truth.



















































Parents, first of all, take care of their children.
























But now we have to break up, each one of us will go our separate ways.






















Bebe, you have friends, you're wrong!

























We can still have children.



























































































































































We must have four cashiers watching each other all the time; annoying and suspicious dudes.





































































































































































I remember an old woman who lured me to her apartment.


































































































































"It's the pure truth.













And very expensive.

















































































He was a kid at the opera.








































It's an expensive player.


















Really?




























Your friend Krister is doing a useful job.
































It will damage discipline and cause great inconvenience to our dear Christer.

















Our dear Krister shares this view.
























We've been apart for a while.

























I took her bra off and touched her to death every night.






































They're too expensive.










































It's better now, isn't it?


















































At first, we were hanging out in Gardet and Jurgorden because I used to live here when I was a kid.















Dog food's pretty expensive.
















































































































































































































- It's five o'clock.







































































































































































































How sweet and modest she is. Isn't that right, Dalaida?



















My dear, young friends, run, play, but away from here!












Beautiful color, isn't it?





























































































































A big tree by the pond, but you're really coming?










I don't think so, darling.

















































They say that Joffrey de Peirak is a sorcerer and a friend of the devil, and I want to explain my sorcery.























Couldn't I have let a woman like that disgust me?





















Why, my dear Count, do you not observe custom?


















































Tell the truth, Angelica.












Everyone says you're a little bit of a sorcerer, I want to know if it's true.










- It's not a game, my dear Madness.


































































































Yes, darling?





































Your friend Peirak has gone mad... teasing my cousin?











Yeah. These shoulders, this breast, this is a challenge, my dear!















You were so beautiful last night, surrounded by all these ladies.





































































































































I ditched the whole of Paris. I finally found you! Oh, my friend!


















I'm willing to endure, for Joffrey's sake, for Florimon's sake, and for the baby I'm carrying.



















I'm your friend and I'm ready to serve you with all my soul and body.


- You're right, darling.






























But in order to save his friend, he could destroy you.































Yeah, he can conquer women...

That's not true!
































We hope you'll do the black work yourself.




















This woman is bewitched!











I'm not leaving my friends in danger.





Don't be afraid, darling, you have my cousin's word.





Are you our only friend?























































I swear to tell the truth, but...



Then I swear to tell the truth...
















This seal is an exact copy of the seal used by the monk, the work of the assistant meter Antoine, the castle master of Bastille. - Can I get a witness?


It's true.














































Look at this poor woman.



















I think, gentlemen, now no one will deny that this woman was bewitched.

























































Don't, my friend.



I'll leave the children with my sister and go back to the king. He'll have mercy on Joffrey.













- These are your sister's children.






























I'll free your husband and he'll live. And you and I are running to America, as we decided when we were kids.
















Give us the woman!

Give me the woman! Let go of me!



























We're friends.





















































































































































































You don't regret anything, do you?




















































































































There's a job for you.
Work!












It's a very simple job.













































It's too expensive.











But I need to be satisfied with my job.




The truth, the truth.



































Oh, don't you women ever think of anything else?









She made them, didn't she?




The way a woman thinks... only men understand!



























































































































"Any woman who spends all her time in bed, looking at herself in a mirror, playing with her hair, embroidering on carpets, reading novels that are only concerned with herself and no one else, "may be in something superior to an animal,
But there isn't much that can justify being born as a woman.
We humbly believe that a woman in this category should tie her neck with a rope and hang herself.
































Especially women.
All women are beautiful.








Look at this conservative woman when you think of Buntime, she starts snoring.


















Today's Woman, it goes too far.





































It's a lovely evening... August...














































































Bless you, dear Manda.



























































































































































You're not doing anything wrong, are you?



















The job will last two months.

































- Really?

























































You have to admit that you were wrong to criticize what I'm writing. I write very well, don't I?





I'm gonna go show this to my friends.


















It's true, believe me.



























































































































































































































No, more than that, man!



































"Dear Bhupati, I think that after what happened, my presence here would be a burden for you.
I've heard about work outside the city and I'm gonna try to get settled.








- Your dear friend Amal.




- It's true.





















But he's still a kid.











































































Dear Bhupati!




























































































Tonight, Sandro, tonight.

































































































- Then I'll call you tonight. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. I'll call you until he picks up the phone, returns the money and takes his cocaine.




- That's his friend Sandro Choppy.








I'm his friend.




















She said I was his friend. She gave me a name and a name.












































































Honey, get up." An excruciating state and a strong desire for a sense of pleasure, "especially for women."







































































- What note? I'll tell her tonight.


































It's a woman.







Last night, I ate canned food and my face was swollen.














































































No, no, no, Corrado! Let me finish! A woman has the right to personal experience.









































But unfortunately, at this moment, we are so far apart.



















Tell me, we love each other, don't we?

- We're crazy in love, aren't we?
- I've never cheated on you, not even in my head, and you haven't cheated on me either, have you? - Yes.




















































































































- Is it nauseous? We're gonna hold off on the baby, aren't we?


Do I really feel bad what you want me to do?





I imagine next Christmas we're gonna sit back and look at each other like two morons.


The child will be born to Easter, and he will graduate from high school in '75.






































Time's up, give up your jobs, girls.




Give me the job.

















I want to remind you that next year you will become a teacher. And that your work is of paramount importance.
It's not just a job, it's a mission.
Tomorrow you will raise your children.

































Go change, I'll check the work and go downstairs.











































- Why? You and I know each other well. Take him home, study carefully, see if he fits you, and then we'll talk.




























































- Why? - A woman is a strange animal.




There was a young girl sitting on the terrace of the restaurant, holding a baby in her arms.
It seemed strange to me that such a young woman, aged 17 to 18, was already married to a child.
And when I looked at her, she unbuttoned the blouse gate and offered the baby breasts.






The baby wasn't hers, it was her sister.






















































I'll give you the papers, Professor.






Interesting detail. These seven gave me the best jobs.































An exceptional woman, but always running past me.





















































For such a luxurious woman to come to my house?








































































See? See, we're starting to understand each other.







My dear, let's finish.
I've got more to do. My time is expensive.







Dear Marquetti, I couldn't even assume that.





I'm sorry, dear Marquetti, but it's not gentlemanly of you.



I'm so bored that I have to mix my personal life and work all the time, while I'd like to go to some lonely, wild place with a big blue sky above my head.





- So I'm a slave to my work.


- No, I also like you because you're a modern, practical woman. - I promise you.












- That's the truth. - It can't go on like this.





































































- That one on the right." "Little women."




























It'll be on the air tonight.


























Dear Marquetti! Since you're making it very difficult for us to do this,


- No, counselor. - Because Maestro Spadini has been fighting for weeks, hasn't he?
- Yeah, yeah. - And he offered three million to take this case away from Mr. Marquetti, didn't he?






























































Honey, did you ever think of a plot in Spain's square?








































- Don't be too modest, it's our friends' house. - What friends! - Take off your pants!









































- Good evening, Signora.









- It's gonna take 20 days to do this job, Signora.



Ten days, tops, and it shouldn't cost more than 400,000 lire.












































I'll see you at 8:00 P.M. at Rosati Square.


































- Trains? - You really don't know anything.
















- Good evening. - 9th and 11th for Signora.












































































































No, it really happened, my young friend.
I'm not a kid.







You're confusing the grave with the death of my young friend.



















You're right, my young friend.





















Think carefully, my friend.

















So the death of a beautiful woman is the most poetic thing in the world.







Good luck, my young friend.































To tell you the truth, I only made a bet for ten.















If you're afraid, you can follow me, woman.


































You're very nice and you can imagine yourself in a good light in front of women.


For the first time in a long time, I feel like a woman.































































I'm a woman, you know?
I'm a real woman.











You have to be an idiot or an insane person to abandon society to such a beautiful woman.
















































































































































I have work to do tomorrow, and I hate not to sleep.
















- Goodbye, darling.








We love each other.

































































A night of love and horror if Lord Blackwood told the truth.













































































































































You're the one who works to feed your children!













Says they've been getting job applications all these days, but not one for work abroad.










































I can't imagine you doing this job.






































I mean... he said you had a baby.
















Truth be told, I...






















- But they're worth more than that.




















Sometimes he's really late.







- Tell me the truth, did he tell you about it?










Your husband, your son, a job, even a dog."
But not the husband, the son, the job, the dog, the trees, the river...








But this girl... didn't have any children.






Have you come to offer my husband a job?
In addition, well-paid work.














































































































It's true, they're considered aphrodisiac.



























Don't go, darling.



















































Yeah, it's true, it's true.







Isn't that right, Linda? - Come on.
































He hasn't seen a woman in two months.






Because he's always ready like a predator. Always ready to go to a factory with difficulties or a woman in crisis.





You know... it was true when I said I wanted to make love.

































Sometimes I ask myself... isn't all the effort that goes into work useless?

























Someone was screaming, it's true.


























































Really.





















































































But it's better with the TV, isn't it?
Is it true that there are women walking around with their breasts naked?




















Honey, if you're not saying you're in pain, what can I do?















Say it, darling.










































































You don't love me, do you?


























































Because I'm not a single woman.















































It was an accident, but it's true.
























There are horses eating flowers, children drinking milk from rivers.
























I have to leave my wife and children.


















Let's leave this place and start living somewhere else before government troops arrive and do the same thing they did in Canudos, killing men, women, and even children.






















To tell you the truth, Padre, I personally am not afraid of war.

































Take your wife and child.




































































It happened at 6 p.m. in Angiko.
















































































If I die, go with your woman and tell the world that Corisco is more dead than alive.




















Tell me the truth:




































































































It's true.




















If we get out, we'll have a baby.




















Nice. Right, darling?











- It's great, isn't it?































































- Honey, are you ready? - Yes.









































Your job is to terrorize the people!

































































Honey, can you hear me? Open up!
Are you sick, darling? Are you sick?





















- Yeah, but I wasn't there. It was the truth, though.




It's true.


































We're gonna try everything out of you, my friend!















You're talking, you're lying, and everyone thinks it's true.
And it's true.
- Really?
That everyone believes? - No, it's true that it's all a lie.
Everyone believes the truth that she's a liar.


































Dear friend, would you come here?
I'll introduce you to our newly arrived friend.














This is Lady Beltham, my loyal friend and associate, helping in all matters.








I'm sure you'll understand each other.
Thank you, darling.


Yeah, the perfect woman is her only flaw.























The guests of the Countess and our evening of Paris jewelers are asked to go to the summer terrace and take their seats.



































































































Helen's never gonna accept-- women never say "never."




Just got to take care of your friend, Commissioner Juve.














































































How long have you been here? That's a very stupid joke, my dear!



































Honey! Honey, wake up!









Don't worry, darling.












I'm giving you freedom because he doesn't understand anything about women.


For the first time in my life, a woman saved my life.
You hurryed, you don't know women yet.









Pay attention, darling!




- Honey, I'm sick!


















Of course, darling, it's so logical.










































































































































































If I had a wife like that, I wouldn't have run off to the mountains. - What have you done? - Kids.



























































































































Madame Gieber is a wonderful woman, my commander.









































The sailor in charge is a friend of mine. Want some?































































- Don't listen to him, he's crazy about love. What are you doing tonight, baby?
She's having an appointment with Mom and Dad! The difference between the city and the village gives rise to a revolution, friends!

Forgive me, friends, I don't get involved with anyone I don't know.






































































































































































































































































Celebrating your daughter's return with her friends. - Explain it to me!



- I'll take care of the baby! - If I had a daughter, I'd know about it.



























When you see her father at work, you don't have to worry about the girl. I love her.









































- A man or a woman?



















































- Tell me it's not true. - Really.
































































































































































I'm gonna get some rest. We're gonna have a little party for our kids, 'cause you're your man.






































































































































It must be a wonderful city. Old wooden houses, where you can rest after a damn Indian attack, enjoy socializing with the prettiest women...


















Tonight.










It's such a lovely evening.







































These Eastern women. There's so much mystery in their eyes.





















































- So it's true.











































- We'll figure it out together, we're friends.
































She probably decided to invite her friends.

























- Good evening, Signora.
- Good evening.

















- But we have to do our job...











Signor Merumechi is a friend of the family.





























You want to leave, don't you?














































- Good evening.













Leo's here to help us, isn't he?
















Many of my friends have managed to...








Otherwise, I wouldn't worry about Carl, would I?



You know what it's like to have no money, no friends.





You managed to set a price of 800,000 lire, knowing it was worth more.

No, it's true.































My diplomatic friend!









No, I made sure tonight.



- Yes, darling.





Because I know you a long time ago when you were a kid.









They started dating often and became very good friends.



















She taught me a good lesson tonight. You need to be calm and happy.


- What happened later tonight?































- Of course she understood you. It's not hard to understand after what happened last night.


















Carla only touched the surface of the truth, Mother.











































Yeah, it's true.











Maybe it's true.











You're not ashamed, are you, Leo?
















- Good evening.

























You're good, tonight.





Yes, darling.

- It's not that bad, is it? - What?






That's not true.














































We never get tired of talking and looking each other in the eye.
One day you'll get tired of looking at each other.

But that's not true, my dear Lisa!













You accuse me of hypocrisy after what happened last night.
I spoke to you with an open heart, told you everything, revealed the whole truth.

Did you tell me the whole truth? Yes.












I'm saying this because you started talking about sincerity, the truth, and so on.

- What a lovely evening!




It's so exciting, isn't it Merumechi?





It's not expensive, but it's always necessary, isn't it? - Thank you.







I learned, didn't I, Leo?








She's not bad, is she?





























Classic music is so relaxing, isn't it?




























You'd say... the truth.


























Really, Lisa?










We have a lot to talk about, don't we, Leo?































































It's weird, I've been in my room all night.





























































Yeah, it's true.



You promised me last night.


I guess you always have time for sluts, don't you?






- No, honey.







You haven't had a drink in over 20 years, my dear.













Have you made up your mind about tonight?



And forget to make a mask tonight.











































You're a strong woman.










Bye, darling.








Isn't that right, Carla?






Lisa is an extraordinary woman.
















- Hey. Good evening, everyone.



























Ever since I was a kid.














Listen, darling...






Weird? Is it weird that a man and a woman reach out to love like thin rays through windows?



Anyway, that's better, isn't it?

















- And look in each other's gas.

















































You don't believe me, do you?





Tonight, if you want.




































































- I'll get a job.





























Kids, you're finally here!















- Are you busy tonight?






















































































































































































































Every time you come tonight, I ask them to wear it.

Don't wear them in the afternoon, but give me pleasure in the evenings.


































The rarest qualities are women.











Montalee's a real bastard, really.

Just like a kid.








































I promise you won't have a baby.

















































































































Darling, a girl like Celestine, from Paris...



No, no, no, it was such a lovely evening after dinner, and you made a scandal.


Honey, don't worry about Celestine, I'm not gonna...
























































































I respect women very much.














I'm gonna fix them, and I'm gonna take my expensive shoes with me.




















And you... are a damn beautiful woman.


- Good evening, sir.
















I'm not just your confessional, but I'm also a friend.















































































































































And the women won't understand.


















































































Drops all the time, from morning to evening.











I will notice, Monsieur Montale, that it is unlikely that a brave soldier, an officer who has received his prizes in the battlefields, will throw splinters into your garden like a child.



















Oh, my God, what a baby.



























































Good evening, sir.

- What do you want? - Listen, darling...
























- Really.


- Nice woman.










































I knew women, but you guys are special.















Here's what you need, woman and order.

































Now, dear Joseph, tell me you killed Claire.

































You're just like all the other women.


Really, Marianne.


Look, what if I come to you tonight?









Good evening.






































































































He's a real patriot. Really?














It's great, isn't it?














Tomorrow morning, I'm going to Hollywood and I'm going to make a new movie. Me, Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr.... and Joey Bishop." It's called "Little Women."

































































Yes, darling?

Please, honey, not now.


















































Bye, darling.















Bringing flowers to a married woman!























































































Wow! To say that to a married woman.















































































'The woman in the fur,' "Fun in Acapulco." "Tiffany's Breakfast!"












































































































































































































Isn't that right, Orville?






























































Hello, darling.




























Do you really want me to say it?







Sorry, honey.


























Really, there were only two of us. Me and Rosalie Schultz, but she left the club and went to Mitch Miller's.





































































































































































Come here, darling.









































Honey, here's a picture.



















We'd love to sign. Isn't that right, Orville?

















































It's for my friend.

Work all night.



















On such a field trip...





















My friend will explain everything to you.

Well, the last time I had a job like this was July 4th.







Jobs are untraceable.








































Are you saying you discussed my sex life with another woman and laughed at it?








You don't think I'm attractive to other women?




The truth is, you don't care about me. Otherwise, you'd be jealous.




If Vatusi's wife finds herself with her husband... another woman, you know what she's doing?















Honey, what's the matter with you?








Five years ago... we swore to love, honor and care for each other... and you were so nervous that you put a ring on the priest's finger.













My friend Orville.


































































































First Barney says it's not for him, it's for his friend.
Now you're saying it's not for you, it's for your friend.
But he's not exactly a friend.







































































It's so embarrassing to burden you with this job...



































































































































































































"A friend gave me a lobster," and I said, "That's it!
































































































































We have wine, women, only songs missing.


Honey, you better play something of yours.


Why don't we sing, "Let's get a little closer together"?






Really?










Did you hear that, darling?




















Work all night.

























































































No, darling, mi-bemol.





















































































Are you gonna be okay, honey?




Look, mister, I've got a job to do, and you're interrupting.
Bye, darling.


















Does he really think he can buy my wife for a song?









































As for the song... it doesn't change anything, does it?





























Okay, darling.



Yes, darling.



















































What a night.


He's been giving me his wife all night.













I see him almost every night.





















Let's face it.























































It's really cozy.












Do you really want to give it to me?









A woman without a man, like a trailer without a car.




































- Really?






























































Did you hear that, darling?








It's a beautiful song, isn't it?
























































- Good evening, Lisa!
- Good evening.



















































- Hey, friends! - Welcome!








- Yes, my friend, I'm here again.















A woman?






I'm sorry, my friend, but I don't understand you.




















There's no reason for a decent woman to look at such a mess.














No, my husband's coming tonight. He's in town.


























































I didn't know you had kids.



Maybe it's better not to have kids.

When children grow up, they're sent to death.




















Are you really leaving?




































You shouldn't despair. Go on. And take care, my friend.










Your move, my friend.







- A woman always seeks... only her own salvation.

























































You haven't been back that long, my friend.






Forgive me, my friend.






















People are lying. But when he was told the truth...








































You're a big kid.































































I ask the women to leave the square!









Will you raise your hand against each other?








You are incorrigible, my friend!
















Lifters! You can't take prisoners to work outside the camp!











- Goodbye, my friend! - Goodbye, Captain!













- Really?






- Come on, honey.












































































































































































































- Really?
















- Really?
































It's like a baby's mug, but...



























































A woman?
Are you a woman?




























She saw you, that woman in the elevator, didn't she?


































Let's get to work!



















































The food's broken, really.













































































It's okay, Essy, honey.








































































You're kidding, right?

















I'm a woman in the body.




















































She doesn't want to die, that poor woman.







Sneaky fox plan, isn't it?





Well, we can settle down and have kids or something.
Step away from business and have kids, what's the problem?
Kids whose parents you and I are, I wouldn't even trust a stupid kitchen knife.


























They must have been just kids.
















































"Dear Mother



























He had a lot of nice friends among women.
Well, yeah, yeah, friends of the women he met in the public showers, I bet.











- I really like that part.














































































































It's all true.



























































Hello, darling.
Pretty good, huh?





- Want to see the job?


Come on, honey, hurry up, we still have to change.




I'm sorry, honey, but I have to kidnap her.























































My friend went to Texas and brought a cowboy hat to Italy.















Dear Andrea, congratulations.











- Dear Mariotti, how are you?









Oh, my dear deputy!






















Sorry, honey.











A woman shall hold a meeting at least once a month:






















































































Do you know what you're talking about, darling?























Not bad, is it?



































































Honey, you're not home, and I'm not your wife.





Don't ever call a woman by her name.
Always "darling."

Is that you, darling?










Bye, darling.





















Honey, I can't go to the barbershop every day.


Yes, darling.

































My wife stayed home all night.





And do your job well!










Good evening, Signor Artusi.



































And then we're gonna hang out all night like a very loving couple.
Why? Do we really love each other?
Okay, like we just love each other.

Whatever you want, darling.





You married your dear Andrea.























What else can I ask a woman?









Of course they're more expensive.







































































At least let me see the baby one last time, huh?














Yeah, it's true.

















I don't understand, really.





















I'm sorry, do you think that if a woman cheats on her husband, she can pretend to be in love with him?














I don't know. It seems like you can't talk about anything else.



















































































You should know that beautiful women get everything they want.
Yes. And you should know that the husbands of beautiful women don't like being led by their noses. What?




























It would be better for women to reason with the right hemisphere, who knows.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, darling.








































































































































You know what? It's all about work.












I'll ask Dr. Mario if it's true that drinking whiskey is a sin.































Maria Grazia is a real woman.


A woman like her needs...








I see you like women a lot.













Two friends met and one said to the other:

































Why don't we play the truth?















Tell us, what were you doing on the evening of March 24th, 9:00 p.m. parked outside the Fortress walls?














This town gives me fear during the day, imagine the evening!







You know that's impossible at 9:00 P.M.









March 24, 1964, by the Fortress Walls, at 9 p.m., Signor Artusi...









































Anything, darling, will set an example for you.









But if the married lady is in a car near the Fortress walls tonight, then...








Don't think about it. There's a lot of whores' kids!

















And that's not all. Remember, I'm not "a convent chef who's touched by a woman, and he's happy."


















In the East, women with eunuchs are well designed.





















































































































I'm sorry, honey, I'm really sorry, but I have to go.










































That's a friend!












































It's too easy, darling!


Why don't we try to help each other?

We'll help each other, and then!



Let's start over, but I want the truth! You know? I want the truth!




But why do you believe that a woman can cheat on her husband and come home like nothing's happened?





















I want the truth!

The truth!





Push the truth out!










Is that true?


Yeah, really, it's true.


We can talk now. Try to understand each other.




Yes. The truth can fix anything.









It's too much, darling!



No, darling!






























Be brave, darling, calm down!





















When she doesn't have these seizures, she's a normal woman.
















































I asked my friend to seduce me to try.





































So it's not true!
It's true that it's not true.








Besides, we haven't said a word to each other in 20 days.















































And tell the truth!













Really?
















It won't happen again, darling. No, no.






Okay, it's true!




















Isn't that right, Marriotti?




































































Who's gonna sit with the kids while there's no babysitter in the house?






But what am I gonna tell the owner about the kids?
















Good evening, Katie Nanna, Ellen.



































Where are the kids?
Children, madam, to be honest, are not present.





- I'm not talking bad about kids...





He's gonna be so angry when he comes in and sees that the kids are gone.





Think of the children.































- Honey, our kids...









I rule subjects: servants, wives, children.



- Winifred, where are the kids?
- They're not here, darling.














Katie Nanna couldn't do her job.



- Yes, darling.









Beautiful work.













Kids, come here right now.




The truth is, sir, it's the snake that escaped, not the children.








I thank you, Constable, for returning the children.

















I'm sorry, honey, but I was hoping Katie Nanna could handle the kids.







Choosing a babysitter is an important and delicate task.


Oh, George, really?



- Of course, darling.

































"The two adorable children need a nanny."





















They're just kids.
Winifred, I know they're just kids.





















































Really?







I'm sure the kids will be extremely attracted to my games.





























I'm gonna go see the kids.














It's where I got to work.







Can you raise our kids?


















































































- Mary Poppins, is this really a game?


















And she's gonna make sure she doesn't get tired of working, and she's gonna put a chocolate in the flower, and she's gonna give the nectar a sip.























































The other babysitters take the kids to the park.














Beautiful, isn't it?










Isn't that right, Mary Poppins?





















- You really think so?























































































You're no better than the kids. I'm so sorry.






































































































Come on, kids.















Mary Poppins, you're never leaving us, are you?


























It's true!



















- Your truth, ma'am.










- Really?








































The kids wanted to cheer you up.





Sorry, honey.






- Yes, darling.

- What, honey?





















Let's get back to work, kid.






































Honestly, darling.






























































Okay, kids, it's tea time.









Careful, kids.
















It was cold once, and my friend went to buy warm underwear.

And my friend says, "Sometimes from September to March."


Kids, please sit at the table properly.

- Thank you, darling.
























Come on, kids.





































Kids, please don't make any noise.





George, good evening.








I don't deny it, I'm part of the answer, I let the kids waste time without any good.

George, they're just kids.









It's my baby's duty to know that life is one fight, fighting everywhere, everything.
I'm worried about children's stories about jumping out of paintings on the bridge, communicating with the public at the races, fox hunting...




We ask you to become meaningful and informative with your children.







Only the truth should the carapus piss on the moustache, taking the example...



Seven rows of numbers became friends.







And two happy children, without a plan tomorrow with you, will hurry there.








The kids have a big day tomorrow.


Winifred, did I say I was gonna take the kids to the bank?
Honey, that's what it sounded like.


















- "But" says horses, she rides, and children who go out with their father tomorrow should jump into bed.










































































- These are my children, Mr. Dawes.













Father, these are the Banks' children.





























- Well, my friend, give me the money.























































- Kids, back up.
- Stop the kids!





Stop the kids!
Stop the kids!





An old friend wouldn't hurt you.




















That doesn't sound right.
It's true.

















He's just doing his job, himself, without whining, silently.


Burt, do you think Dad really needs our help?




















- Ma'am, it's the kids.



To tell you the truth, ma'am, they didn't run away.











Would you be so kind as to look after the children?








And the kids will be interested.




Brave women in prison are waiting. I have to salt!
Goodbye, darlings.































































Smoke, crawl, smoke, crawl along the pipe, let the chimney be your friend.







These are my friends!












A friend behind a friend!
A friend for a friend, together in a dance. A friend for a friend, together in a dance.
We've done this before. A friend for a friend, together in a dance.



















































In the fight for women, together in the dance. In the fight for women, together in the dance.

In the battle for women.
In the battle for women!

















- Come on, kids. One or two.












































Really?









You tricked me into taking the kids with you? - Yes.



But you didn't have enough for your children to at least wipe your tears.






I don't think it's normal for children to grow up.














Good evening, gentlemen.















































And Michael says, "Really?








































We just found out he was fired last night.






























Where are the kids? Jane?































































I know how you feel about these kids.


































































- My dear fiancée!















Don Domenico, it's true!













































- Donna Philumene really isn't good?






























































































































































There we can meet his friends from the community.

See you tonight!
















Do you love children?















But I've become a woman with you.
Philumena, why are you ruining a night like this?

Really, I often leave.
























































































































35,000 lire, handmade.








































Then the kids called her to America.



But her mind is clear. Really, she's got her own freaks.

















































Yes, a beautiful, moral woman.




- Unusual woman! - She was so thoughtful!

























Be sincere, do you love this woman?





















- Yes, darling, I am. Finished?







But it's okay if you and my friends get it after our wedding.








































































































Yeah, they called me right away. He says, "What did the kid eat?"















What a beautiful mother with a baby in her arms!














































Any woman would die if she lived with you for 20 years.















































Don't make that face, it's not your children.




And the children were educated.


























Bring someone's kids into my house!































































































































- Who is this woman?




















But I can't give up on the kids.


You're not gonna stop me from telling the kids they're mine.





































I was a grown-up, almost a woman.






























































- Because they're your kids!






Then I really loved you, and you didn't, you pretended.








Kids don't buy.
























































Now you're calm. Truth be told, and I'm calm.








It was a big night for me.



































































































Philumena, I'm gonna go see them right now and tell them the truth!



Don't set them against each other!


























































































































































It's a woman!



Don't worry, we're friends.































































































But you'll only stay here tonight.





You have to sell it more to take into account my losses as well.




























It's too expensive for me.























For those who have not yet experienced the adorability of African women... these two women are created to make your watch of loneliness beautiful.



























































































































































































































































































I'll put an end to this, my friend.



























And I won't regret their women, Dykor.

















































Gather all the women in front of the city gate!



Put the women on the wagon...















Ganor's men have captured our women!






















































































































That night, Lucy finally collected all the information.
























We've been living here for three years and we don't have kids.






























They became your friends.
They're still your friends.
































































































































































And your best friend.
Yeah, a friend who ratted me out.


























































































































It's true.





It's true.








We'll never know the truth.
But whether he knocked on you or not, in our opinion, there's a woman involved.

























































































































































Woman, calm down! Or go beg somewhere else!













No friends, the whole Soho Square... speaks badly out of his hand.







It's just to teach the kids how to speak.











It's so easy to teach the kids what to say.










































I'm bored of this town, I'm going to Paris, friends.











And with me, like a happy dream, a gentle friend would sit in silence.















With the Hyde Park alleys for the warm spring evenings!




































































































I knew you'd want back what you left me last night!


















































































































































































You're good with women, aren't you?


As soon as a woman becomes my friend, she gets jealous, picky and bored.



You know, dear Pickering...








All you have to do is let a woman in the house, it's all a walker!


The one who's gonna fall in love, the one who's gonna kill himself.



If a woman is with you... you're only interested in fighting.


I'm pretty sure there's never gonna be a woman with me.



You won't hear any complaints, my friend.




He's gonna listen to you. He's gonna say, "Dear, you're right."



If the woman is with you,



Than a woman will ever be with me.

Who likes to be quiet in the evenings?




If the woman is with you,...the break is yours.



If the woman is with you...
There will never be a woman with me.





























Help each other at a time of distress,














































































































































How expensive is five pounds, gentlemen?















Why don't you marry this woman?




































Eliza bear in mind: If you don't fix the vowel by tonight, tomorrow you'll be out of breakfast, lunch, dinner and chocolate!




Nothing, I'll wait, dear friend. You're gonna get sick in bed.






























I want you to say every night before bed instead of praying:


















































































































































































































Expensive work!
















































Nice to meet you, darling.

























































It's okay, honey.

















It's not true, we've got a little work to do, but...







Good evening, sir.


Good evening, Professor Higgins.















































































That's how you bridge the gap that divides people into classes and separates them from each other!



Isn't that right, Higgins?






































- Good evening, Colonel Pickering.
- Good evening. What a charming young lady you brought to us!











































Allow me, friend. Allow me, my dear friend.






































"We are the children of the same people!" - the expert said it to me.











































































I really didn't realize you were leaving, but, for example, you could get married.












Let's not insult each other by talking about selling. That's bullshit, Eliza!





























































Honey!












Oh, darling, I... words, words, headaches.





















































































That's what your dear professor did.
It's not, it's not, it's not mine.













































Mrs. Pierce let her go last night!














































Look, honey, I don't like your question!









Yeah, there's no logic in a woman, alas!




Pickering, why don't women look like men?

Pickering, why don't women look like men?


You can't expect women to do that!
Yeah, as long as I don't look at a woman,



Why aren't women like us?













Why aren't women like us?

You'll find a better friend among us.
















It's true. By the way, do you know Bruzy why I'm calling you?
















A real friend.
Mrs. Pierce, answer me as a woman...








They just sat there and congratulated each other on their victory and said how good it was that it was all behind them, so they're getting tired of it.















No woman can resist such an invitation.










































































I don't need you to love me like a woman.



















Woman, don't you understand?


























I suggest you, dear friend, don't go to Hartford,
































































You won't disappoint me, my friend.




























































































































































































































































I'll be waiting tonight.










































And you want to grab your friend's wife?













You can't stop a young man and a woman living next to each other... from ignoring each other.





We're just gonna be friends.










If you just want a woman, take me.




We'll just be friends!




















































There can be no sin between a man and a woman.









































































You're among friends here.
















































Last night, he said that he didn't have anything... and that he'd be here by tonight.

























































































































But tonight is a holy evening.






























Good evening, Aunt Elise.
Good evening, my boy.
















- Tell me the truth.












Good evening, Guy.




























We're having kids.





















And we'll love each other.




















































Can he feed you, raise your kids?

We're gonna live very easy. We'll wait with the kids.




























- It's a miracle. - Really?
Amazing work.
























































































































You're gonna have other women, and you're gonna forget me.






Good evening, Aunt Elise.






















I know everything, darling.















You're gonna have a lot of friends.










Look at me, darling.


Isn't that right, Madeleine?




























































I suddenly introduced Guy to another woman.





Mom, I'm having a baby. Oh, my God.
Is that his baby?





- With this kid.



Neighbors, friends.
We don't have any friends.













Really, Genevieve's been a little overworked lately. Very pale.



So you can't live without each other?
















- Good night, darling.














She sees you as a friend.


I loved a woman a long time ago.































True, the sun and death seem to go hand in hand.
Genevieve, darling, go to the table.


Don't be mean, darling.











The woman who's expecting the baby is beautiful.
- It's true.



I'd be happier if the baby had a father and you had a husband.







































We didn't have the courage to tell him the truth. Well, let's see, is he gonna accept me like this?












We're gonna raise our baby together.






















Take care of me, darling.






















Do you know anything about the baby?










- Your job? - Yes.













I can get myself another job.














Then go your way.





































































- It's beautiful. - Really?


































































































I can only do easy work.






How many kids do you have?




















- Really?



















Hold on to each other.











































































I'm sorry, I'm from the milkhouse. What do you want? Good evening.



























- You're very nice, too, really.
















No job, no bread, no housing, seven kids, one in the stomach, his name is Ben-Gurion. Get out of here.



































Let's say a snake bit you when you were a kid, and then you forgot it, but this case left a deep scar in the child's tender soul.
What kid?
It's you, Mr. Shabati. When we were a kid.




















































































When I arrived in the country, I agreed to any job.











Let's get to work.






- Enough, comrade. Let's get to work.
































































Salah, you're the first person to be fired from an avral job.







Tough job?




Mr. Goldstein, even if it was an easy job, I wouldn't be able to work.


























But I want her home tonight.




Woman, don't start.







- Did the government give me kids?
Go to work so we can have a house.




Good evening.












No job, no place to live. There's nothing.


It's a children's warehouse.

It's really so awful.




























"An innocent wife has been bought, all her children will be given his name.











































































And these for the children, and these for the children.

































































































Maybe I should get a job.
















































































- I don't talk to a woman.































































Really?

And he doesn't usually talk to women.



















I'd have milked it from morning to evening.





















How many kids do I have?




























- About hiring?







Go home. A woman doesn't belong here.


























Don't yell, woman?

































- Calm down, darling, she'll be with us soon.













No, not because of that. Really.













Good evening, Mr. Shabati.























































































You have a very good price, Habuba. Really, it's very good.


























Comrades, I am totally against any form of buying women from the outside.







May it be, we're just friends. Really.


Zigi, darling, there are basic principles that even you can't break.







We don't have a budget to buy women!















































Tell me, are you really that stupid or are you pretending?
















Dear comrades, there's nothing...













- I don't talk to a woman.


There's nothing for a woman to hear what men say.

Dear Lord, we live in the 20th century.












Well, you can buy a woman for 50 lire.


It's okay. - Dear comrade...

- Dear Lord...


It's all over the line, dear Comrade Shabati.





















The truth is, Mr. Zigi, I can get 800 lire for Habuba.














- Frida, darling.































































Leave my children alone!
Leave my children alone!
What do you want with my kids?









Let's get to work!










































































- Good evening. - Oh, Peppino, come in!
- Good evening, Peppino. - Oh, how elegant we are!

































































































































So, friends, I've stopped because if math doesn't lie, then 60 minus 18 is 42.









Come on, let's go, let's get to work.


































































She's a woman, it had to happen sooner or later.



































Friends of the family?




































































































Well, you don't remember, you were a kid back then.







He liked my kids.







































He's cute, isn't he?





Now Mathilde can tell the truth. Tactically, of course.









Baron, let's leave the women to ourselves.






























- What's that supposed to mean? A man seduces, and a woman, don't you dare give up?











If Kalifano doesn't give me an answer tonight, I'm gonna make a cutlet out of him!










Don Amalia Kalifano is a very smart woman, handsome very religious and very, very careful.





What kind of guarantee can such a union provide for the upbringing of future children?










































































You see, dear cousin, if you had killed him when you discovered this fact, i.e. madness at the offense you were subjected to, the penalty would have been between three and seven years.























Oh, dear Don Vincenzo! What happiness do I owe your visit?






Dear Don Vincenzo, life is hard today.






Money-rich buys everything that's expensive. Video, for example. What's my register?

So I have to find a friend of the people.




"Anonymous, but loyal friend."





























































































































































































































Maybe I made you a woman.






























































Friends! Professor! Accountant!












Is it true that Antonio and Pepino Kalifano got into a fight?

It's true.













- Yes, darling?














































































































































































































































My house is now open to all friends!















Are you really going to marry Anez Askalona?












Come on, come on, come on, honey!
























































- When's the baby coming?

A child of a prostitute!







Anezina, darling.
Get up, darling, you're well.











































Cousin, it's time to write Mathilde's truth to inform her of everything.



















































































































I hear kids, but I can't see kids.

















That's not true, Varge.




Is there a comment on my work in the lab?

















































These cells are still alive, Dr. Mercer, feeding on each other.










Morgan's gonna show you around.









































Come on, let's get started.






























































- It's true.



































































































































































Kids?





















































He was my friend.
- Your friend?


But you said he was your friend!

























- It's true.













Now, I want the truth.
I want the whole truth.























































































































































I've seen two women and three men-- their faces.

















































It doesn't matter if it's true or not.




My dear cousin, in a couple of months, you will reach the age of majority, and you will be declared Queen of Sura.

Really?
Your friend Navar?


















































I'm gonna take him to his friend Zereteli.












I brought back your friend Nipura, who died trying to follow your orders.




















































What made you run away from your friends?
Friends... what friends.





































































































A good sword is a man's best friend.
















































We love each other and we'll be married soon.









































































Stay here. Pretend to be wounded and when Ursus comes, tell him it's a monster's job.

































































































































You'll see, my dear.


















































































What she said was true.





















No, that's not true.
It can't be true.



If, what she said was true










































































I was taken to the palace as a child and only knew what Zereteli taught me.




No one knows the truth about me.
















































































































Nice work, Anya.




















And I'd say, now that you've become one of the richest women in the world, help us.































































































No trouble, really.











To tell you the truth, since the day I left here.



- We've had happy days together, haven't we?












































Then, one day, I lost my job.














In the heart, my dear doctor, that's where to look for a reason.



































































































- I want to look young tonight, Georges.


















- Tonight.





Mr. Mayor, I'm thinking of a community service program, small business support, tourism development...




























Who doesn't know, dear lady, that you, as a child, brought a bag of potatoes to a starving widow?

Welcome, dear Carla Zakanassian!
God bless you, dear Carla Zakanassian!




But there was no truth in what he said.



And I wasn't such a kid as the mayor described me.


As for my generosity, it's true, once I brought a bag of potatoes to the old widow Bolaz.





But let's leave this lovely lie behind and turn to the harsh truth.






























Carla Zakanassian, while Carla Wexler at the time, stated that you, Serge Miller, were the father of her future child.



We were just kids.

Who remembers the truth?
- They remember the truth, Mr. Miller.



































Your child was born, Madame Zakanassian?






















Only our child is dead and buried.


























You've already washed yourself, darling.





























The very fact that we are meeting means that we are seriously considering this woman &apos; s proposal.



























Okay, I suggest we put on record that the City Council supported our long-standing and respected friend Serge Miller.








It's nice to know you have friends. Thank you.







- Hey, honey.
































It's a joke, isn't it?

































Are you really gonna do this?







Of course your friend is married. - Yes.
























We'll show him how to treat a woman like that.
We may be old friends, but we'll deal with him.













































































































































Be reasonable, my friend.


I don't mean to hurt you, but you know what the price is for a job like this?


To the work done by the professionals.


Don't ask me to explain this woman's psychology.
Dobrick, we're old friends.










































































You had another kid, Serge.
We had a baby.




All the kids have names.






















































Your friends just came to walk you out.





That's how you talk about your old friends.








































































































My dear teacher, why are you talking about a crime?
































































Really.























Mathilde, I want you to know the truth.



































The baby...







- Really?

But you have a son, so it can't be true.
It was true for me.

















Children.

















































And now? For two million, you all, together, openly, agreed to kill one of your friends.


































































- Is it true we're going to be moved?








It's not a lie, it's true.























































































































Okay, it's time to say goodbye. My friends and I got settled in the dunes.

































































Women love it when they're told about their soul. Especially when they're touched.







































































































































































Unknown child, male.



Unknown child.











I'm sorry, but his friend's here.

Friends have nothing to do here.













Are these your friends? ..



Come to dinner tonight. We're gonna have great food.



They're friends. So, Doctor, do we have a deal?









- Whiskey? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Really?
I'd use it inside. Doctor, we'll get you some. Anyway, if you want to, tonight...



Well, that's the deal. Why don't you come over and refuel for us? Tonight, 6:00 p.m.








- So, tonight at 6:00.































There are people who can't talk to women. - I don't know anything about priests.















Our tanks and bombers are invulnerable. Today, loyal to their British friends, abandoned French soldiers raise their hands. And hundreds of thousands surrender to captivity in the expanse of Oaza...






























































You might end up in a clap if it turns out to be true.

























































Why did you ask? At the end, really, they hated my machine gun.


They called me Pino Grapes. It's funny, isn't it?

































































































I won't be here tonight.




















































Yeah, you tell him if I don't come back tonight, then I did.







Do you know him? Yeah, we played football against each other.












- I said women can't.
- What's he saying? - You can't have a woman.










































- A woman doesn't belong here.
































I can even confirm now that all your bikes are true.




































































































































No, it's not our job anymore. - We're just getting off the street.










- And this one was your friend? - Nope.










Two against the baby.












Really, I understand them.











She moved in with her friends. That's six kilometers from here. - She was very scared.






















































































































































Why do you need a friend of the Abbot if you're buried like this?








I'll text his wife that he died... when he went to get some water to make coffee for his friends. That's it.










































- Is that true? I'll have a husband! ..













































- Doesn't matter, man.













So what do they say, the truth?



You like women too much to be one of them.























Let's get back to work.
- Get back to work, let's go!
You bastards, get back to work!



























Come on, you bastards, let's get to work!



















Yeah, really, sure.







You did a good job, more than anyone else could.















































Get back to work!









Back to work!


Get back to work!








































Get back to work!





















If he's telling the truth, that's a very serious question.































































































































- He's my friend!


























I know you're trying to find other slaves to work on the plumbing.











































You're my only friend.

We promised each other we'd tell each other everything, no matter what happened.
















No, it can't be true!






We have to take our chances, my friends.



















In Aristia, Cous, there's a fabulously rich friend of Efraim who's gonna give you money to leave.
































Don't worry, you'll see that I have a lot of friends...









































































- Guy, he's telling the truth.
That's not true!
































I want to give a great feast for my friends who came from Gaul.




- Yeah, it's true.















































To kill each other?









































Anyway, I have friends who can help me.




If he finds out we met, we won't be able to see each other again.


























































There, woman.











































































































You and your friends will be free and rich.

























It'll be fun tonight if they fight each other.




































And make you confess to theft and murder. You tried to hide the truth.






























We'll leave them here tonight, and you, Guy, will take command.




Our friends will be here soon.






























Foot kicks, slaps and beatings on these ugly kids.






































Goodbye, friends!










































































I got a new job-- washing cars in the house where he lives.









I'm sorry, I'm tired, and I told my dad I'd play chess with him tonight.












We can't go on and see each other like this.




Sal, we're just two people who will never understand each other.
Baby... with your education, you can come up with something better than "Dear John..."




















































































































Oh, well, he decided to go on a cruise with some of his young friends.










































And Albert, tell your friends I always pay cash on these terms.









































Hello, darling.

















I'm really busy tonight.





























That's not true.
























Don't flatter yourself so much, my dear.






Good night, darling.























































Two of your friends went up to the ship, they're not gonna help you;




































Your friends have shown so much concern for you, so I have agreed to your coming to the Sensosphere.




People have an interesting quality that amazes me, you take great care of each other.



























As for your other friends, I can tell you they went down to the aqueduct.











































Come in, my friends.













You know, it's time for you to decide who your friends are and save them.
























































































































































































Is that true?
















That's quite reasonable, isn't it, Chester...














I knew the news was too good to be true.










































































I don't know, honey, I think my ship is a useless thing.














































Well, can we be friends?




























Where are my friends, hmm?
The soldiers set fire to the house and took your friends to Paris in Conciergeri prison.










These men were shot and your friends arrested.





Yeah, I have to free my friends.





















































































































But I'll finish the job, even if I have to wear them all out.






Well, I'm gonna listen to anything that's gonna help me finish this job faster.

















Let's get to work!
I'm gonna finish this job.




Your hands aren't for work.































Did they talk to each other?


















I think I'm gonna get back to work. Oh, no.










































Now, let's get to work. Now!




















Where's Ian? What's wrong with your friend?








Your friend betrayed us!


Ask your friend.
We're here. They're here, my friend.





I came as a friend.
Friend? Ian will confirm that I'm telling the truth.














































He was a good friend.































































































































He will be convicted and executed before his friends can do anything.






























































Oh, save your breath, my dear.












































































Really?


























You're the one who betrayed me to Lemeter, aren't you?














I hope so. Robespierre's friends have escaped. The soldiers are already looking for them.



More prisoners will be brought in tomorrow, Robespierre's friends, so everything must be ready, including the cameras.































































































Well, I can believe you, dear Barbara, Napoleon would never believe you.


























Is that true?

- It's true.





















































- I'm loyal to my friends.






















Your friends make weird alliances, Ian.




Now that I've proved I can win, we can be friends... while you're still alive.





Don't tell me you're my friend now.

















































Dear Kameka, it's good to see you again.























Dear Doctor, I accept it with all my heart.








































































Have a nice day, darling.



Very simple, my dear.




































































Honey, I'm glad to see you alone.
















I'm with you, darling.


















- It's true!
































































- Oh... nice evening.









































Oh, that's not true.

























































































































































































































































































Outside, atoms throw at each other.













































































You know, my dear child, I think your old grandfather hasn't gone crazy much.




































Well, when we know each other, we know ourselves.
















































Some of us will have the cure. Then the work won't be interrupted.




A girl and a woman.

























































Thank you, darling.















My dear, there's no time for morality.


My dear, I was hoping you wouldn't complicate things.



















































































































































































































































































- I'm fine, really.





Time to move out, my friends.




















































Come on, we have to get to the cliffs by tonight.



















I know it sounds hard, but we have to try, my friends.





























































































































































































You're gonna go tell your friends to stop the antenna glowing.
































Dear child, don't you understand what I've done?
































































































































Susan, I'm sorry, but the Doctor didn't have dinner with us tonight.



































































































































































































































































































Marco, is that all we have until tonight, Hmm?















































































































She's a kid, Tegana.

Bear in mind Marco, they're gonna turn us on each other by lying, and then, when we're separated, they're gonna destroy us one at a time.



Late tonight, Marco, when we were looking for Barbara, Chenchu thought the old man was in his room.












But that's not true!





My friend, remember this.















The next night will be even better!





Well, I think she and Ping-Cho got very attached to each other.


















Your grandfather must have almost finished working on your caravan.






































You stupid kids, how dare you make such a reckless accusation.

































Come on, Marco, we're friends, aren't we?






Maybe because we were telling the truth.












Isn't that right, Jan?














































Oh, that stupid kid! Grandpa, Pin-Cho would never tell me about the second key.
















































































- Bad. But bad means good, doesn't it?






































This nuclear power plant right in Cardiff's heart will give everyone a job!






































Especially that the failure of the cooling and pressure reduction system will result in the failure of the hydrogen recombinator, which will accelerate the destruction of the containment and insulation system, which will cause the reactor to melt.
- You've prepared well for leisure. That's my job.



























We're getting married in a month, and he keeps telling me I'm gonna lose my job when I need the money.



19th. Anything, as long as my mom doesn't pick on me, we made the final decision because of the baby.







Do you have children?



















I swear, 20 meters high and with fangs, those white things turned out to be fangs, really fangs!






































- No, I'm just an old friend. I was just passing by. I thought I'd surprise you.







She's just full of work.












































































































































































































It's like a crying woman. Oh, my God, and then we went to the beach.


































You're begging for forgiveness from a dead woman's mouth.













































































I've been listening to you talk all night, poor thing, and now shut up.




































- Nice work, everybody.




















































































My grandfather and my friends are terribly ill.


Are you sure the Daleks need medicine for your friends and not for themselves?















But radiation still exists that's why your friends are sick.






















































































































Oh, not older than a child, not a woman yet.
Then maybe it's safer for you to talk to her... since she's not a woman yet.






You have to remember that when we left our plateau and started this journey, she was a little smaller than the baby.












































































































































































































































































































You must be more patient, my friend.










































































Good evening, citizen.









Mr. Robespierre is doing a great job chasing traitors?


































































The less my friends and I know, the less we can confess under torture.






This is my young friend, Jean.







































































Not if what I'm saying is true.



































Oh Barbara, this is my best friend Leon.








































Sure. I'm glad we understand each other.






A man, a woman and a child.





The women were sent to the scaffold.






















































































































Which could be better than lying under the guise of truth.


















































































It's weird that Tegana was watching the fire. It's the same black work he did to the guard.
















































































































But you can get there from Venice, can't you?














One half tonight, the other half when I get the coffin.





















Good evening, ladies.


















































Sorry, honey.










- Make them play against each other?












- Let him enjoy the company of his friends.






It's true.

















































Legends are really far apart.













































Oh, darling, how kind of you.
































He's interested in your father's work.









Take care of the kids and the flowers, uh... keep the pot clean, don't waste it recklessly.....don't destroy yourself uh...






















The Tomb of the High Priest is an excellent work model.




Really?




Tonight, at sunset, I will meet another warrior for the battle.







Really?


Well, let's help each other. - Hmm?































































I think I'm gonna find out something about the tomb tonight.


















































Your friend is dying.



















































Give me back the castle, and I promise, sir, I will heal not only my friend, but all your people.


















But his friend is dying.















































































































































































































How's our friend?


My friend, have you prepared an antidote?








Be strong, darling, be strong.






What, my friend?


























































Really?











































You can't save your friend.
















































































It's true, Messer Marco.






















I did. I know it's true.







Well, it was very cold last night.

















































At night at the oasis. It was the only chance she knew, wasn't it, Susan?























































































Is the woman with you?



Where does it look like a woman wandering the streets alone at night?






















Yes, my friend!



































































































Are you going to tell me the truth?





- Your job?
























I told you the truth!





















































Yes, as do I, dear child.
































- He was your friend.





















- And you're my friend...





































































My dear child, it's only in theory.




























But you know that. Why would anyone other than your friend kidnap him?






































So our young friend might not be able to get through this?











And my young friend is here!













































































































- Ah, your friend's here.



Your friend needs that kind of help, too.







































































































































































































































I was telling the truth when I mentioned demons, those who met them are still alive.


















































































































































































Can I get you some food for my friends?




















































- She's not taking advantage of the position, really.











Really?

























































































































One of the women is resisting the power of Mesmeron.

































































Isolate him and get him to work under a scheme to increase the workforce.
As for the child, she needs to be trained quickly.


































No, you saw the truth about our city, we can't erase it.














































Well, we can only assume something happened to your friend Eprim.








I have to try to figure out what happened to your friend Eprim, if he's alive, get in touch with him, and we can all meet again.











It won't be long, will it?













- Thank you, my dears, now let's go!



























































































































































- Yes, but how, my dear?



















































Yeah, if they really want to listen.






















































































The kids heard something moving in the woods.





































































































































































Am I allowed to see my friends?












































Your friends were here looking for you.














What about the baby?






























Yes. And you're even better on the charge, my friend.
































Maybe so. Maybe so, anyway, the baby is alive and safe.














She's a mean, dangerous woman.




























You should read Parrow, my friend.
































Goodbye, my friends.






















































What are you doing, my dear boy?












My dear Chesterton, sometimes...




























And you will come with me... with me, my dear.





















































Really.




























My dear boy!
































And his life's work is ruined.

His work will continue, only not exactly in the way he started.




















































































He knows it's true!




































































































When the perfect victim leaves this land, the woman who calls herself Yetaxa will also say goodbye to her.
















Let me speak to Otlock on behalf of your friends.













If that's true, I'm losing your trust.
















Here you are, darling, the work is almost done.


- Excuse me, darling.
- Tomorrow is really gonna be a day of darkness.



We're doomed people, darling, nothing can save us.
You're a wonderful woman, Kameka, you'll always be dear to me.


- I lost everything I cared about.



- Then we can help each other.







Where are you gonna look for the truth?



























































Oh, dear Susan!













































































Dear Esmeralda, you are like a ray of light in our dark kingdom...






Men are always willing to smash each other's noses for me. I think I'll leave you gentlemen, your conversations are not for my ears.




- It's good for your health. We're your friends...





What a sorrow, our friend has gone, we mourn, this inexorable sadness pains our heart... packaging and transportation at the expense of our client.































































They're kids, and you get out!




And it could all belong to us, darling...























This girl, Clementine. She doesn't know she had the opportunity yet, but she's gonna find out tonight! You have to explain it to her!



















- Do you really want to know?












Yeah, to tell you the truth, I feel a little undressed.
















What a sorrow, our friend has gone, we mourn, this inexorable sadness pains our heart... packaging and transportation at the expense of our client.





























No one, friend. He wanted to kill me.
















Look what a touching scene, isn't it, Clementine?


































































































Johnny managed to get away from us. Tomorrow night, her land will be mine, and this time I will perform this operation in person, and there will be no mercy for Clementine! But Clementine can't do it!









































And your wife and your children...







































We're now working with Mr. Ahmet.































Or are you afraid to tell the truth?















































From now on, we will share love for each other.
















































I'm Dervish Mustafa, I can't approve of a friend's behavior like that.



















I'm telling the truth to the face.



Don't be a kid, Meral.
















That's how I feel when I'm done.



Madame is not home. She left with her friends.


Her friends came and took her away.
















































Wow, what is a woman doing here?







Who knows, maybe you'll have wonderful kids.

It is said that more beautiful children are born to those who truly love them.


























I love you more than any other man can love a woman.









































































Who are these mysterious guests the woman was talking about?








































































































You can't call me a monstrous man, can you?





































































































































What brings you here tonight?




































































- Should we go there tonight?
- Yeah, tonight.


















As long as it depends on me, you'll have the money at 9:00 p.m. tonight.







Good evening, Fanning.
































































Careful, my friend!











































We're not gonna spend centuries looking at single tasks that are permanently separated from each other...





























































I have a lot of work to do by tomorrow, and I don't have much time left.

Galois started working again.




















































It took 14 years for Galoua's first edition to appear in the magazine Liouville.





























































True truth, yours.





The telegram deals with scientific works.


































































































































































































You're required to do a decent detective job, and that's all.




























































































Here, Lenoir, darling...






To own the world, my dear.











































































I'm a woman, darling.

















You're not just gonna be a rich woman, you're gonna be a very rich woman.




















- Do you have a woman?



































































































































































































I suggest a dangerous job.




























































































































































































































































































































































































- My friend's being treated here.






















































































































The stockings are just ours, and the lights are off at 10:00 P.M.






She's a dragon, of course, but she's a great job.



























Welcome to Winslip knot, where all the lines come together and old friends meet.































































































- Are you going to the dance tonight?

They have surgery tonight, so you won't be needed.
















- Really?











































































And the job is ready.
Pretty good, huh?

































Really?



The Winslips fought in five wars, for four kings and two queens, serving in faith and truth.


























And what is this rail-bound woman doing here?
























































































Truth is, yes.


Really?












- Good evening.



Good evening and welcome to Fun Old Gremlin!
























This pub remembers we've been here every night!

















































































































































































- Are you his friends?




















































Our choir really needs a woman with a contralto.













































































You never know where you're gonna be happy, do you, Piggy?










































































They're here, my dear. ( Stephen sits and Vicky cuts his hair)
































My dear young man, this is not a walk!

















That's right, my dear, whatever it is.













































No, no, my dear, not this time, but... it's so quiet here.




















































































































Yes, dear madam, the girl is telling the truth.

















































All women?
Women?

Women!



























































Maybe they were telling the truth.






















But, my dear...!




















































































These sounds tell me he seems to have friends.











You don't have any friends to protect you, Malik Rick.








I have a friend here to thank for my life.




















































































- And a friend.














- All women are the same.
- A woman? Shut up, Saracin!







He'll be happy to see the woman he admired for so long.

























































It was exhausting to go around the palace.













Oh, my poor friend.























If you're telling the truth...




























The great sultan, this woman can entertain you.














I was walking with three friends.




























Beauty my desk tonight in more suitable clothes.








Really good friends.


What am I leaving, except a wounded friend and a sick head?


My friends are killed or kidnapped.


















- I'll arrange the release of our friends.



Sending presents-- a picture of you and a young woman isn't gonna help, sir.






Our young friend is a woman.



This woman can rot in one of Saladine's prisons until her hair gets white before I trade with a man who kills my friends!








Oh, we're slowing down, my dear.


























Checkmate, isn't it?



































You're on track, my friend.

Oh, it's nothing, isn't it?















































































I don't know, my dear, but I have to try.

























































































I don't think you can just get out of here, my friend?
















































































































































Really?
























































It's true!






































And maybe we'll get some of the truth.
































































































I'm telling you, it's true!





















































































I'm a friend.
But whose friend?


































































































Is that true?



































Oh, my dear!























Oh, that doesn't have to mean anything, my dear Barbara.



Yes, yes, my dear, of course. Yeah, that's stupid of me, yeah. Leverage number four.


Of course, you're not gonna try it on a flight, are you?




Yes, my dear, it doesn't smell.










Yeah, well, he's not very young, is he?



























































- I'm a friend.

















Oh, my dear comrade.











- Yes. Okay, let's try looking for her, shall we? - Yes.
































Don't sit here, my dear boy, get up, get up.



Yeah, it's a shame I didn't get that scientific step, isn't it?





















































































No, no, no, my dear Chesterton, no.

My dear boy, when I was here before, the number of people causing trouble on this planet was only 100.






My friend, you're the one who stopped!




















- You feel sorry for me, don't you?















































It's true, Doctor, someone's been going this way before.







































Answer, my dear, the pipelines.










































These two women are perfectly fit. I agree.































My friend and I are not interested in buying clothes today.






We believe these are his friends who take care of the house.








One of the women mentioned the city, Londinium,






It's a lovely feast, my dear.







Oh, that's fabulous, my dear, just amazing.






















































But, my dear, you just rejected my invitation.








You're afraid I'll get out of your sight, aren't you?







Yes, of course, my dear, let's go. Let's pack up, okay?


























- Hey, don't be like a kid.

















And friends, Romans, compatriots, let me fill your ears with words.





- There aren't many of them in this party, are there?











































Wait there, darling.





Yes, my dear, yes, but that's not the answer.





Okay, there's nothing we can do for him now, my dear. Nothing at all...


Good evening.









































But, Doctor, you don't even know your name! Yeah, really, darling.









- How much for a Brittany woman?
- More than you can give, my friend.
The woman is coming with us to Rome.







They say we have to move tonight, Barbara.







I couldn't think of anything else.







You'd do a good night job yourself.



Don't forget, you can offer a price for a woman in Rome if you want.


































Sweetheart, we're done with this.











You know, it's so simple: time and relativity, my dear!



















No, I don't think so, my dear, no.






I'm afraid I can't tell you anything when I'm here, my dear.






Oh, thank you, darling.


































































Yeah, it's mysterious, isn't it?














My dear Barbara, if you've seen anything or anyone, you probably don't have to talk about it in riddles?
























































































































































































Yes, it is, my dear.







Well, my dear, I think, since we're in this, uh, we can.














You see, darling, before they put us in these cells, we must have landed here on the Tardis.













I don't know, my friend, I... I can't be sure.

















Yes, my dear... and we're here!


























Yes, my dear, yes.
























































Of course, my dear.























































































































































































































































































No, no, this time I'm going to Italy on vacation. Really?

























Oh, my poor friend.





















It's impressive... the truth...
Tell me, my friend, Monsieur Schmurtz, he wants to visit Europe at his Cadillac.





































I'm inviting you to breakfast with my friends.


- Please, my friend.





































Friends, I've got the French band's cash register at stake, okay?



































































































Not a lot of work. Easy. - 15,000.



Bravo, great. Nice work.








































































































You have a lot of work to do.












































































































































































































You're right. Because men and women are made the same way.










































































I don't think so, my dear.













Old friend, diabetic, I helped him with sugar.





























Their bin en frand friend Antoine Marshall.












































It's true, they swim.



Of course your friend is.









































































































I thought we were friends.


















Only on the way will we stop by my friends at Carcason.


































































Okay. That's what you have to do. Monsieur, your friend is asking for a telephone call.








He says he'll be right back. Tell him not to count on his friends.






















































































- Is it true that the castle is very big?
- What? I'm saying, the lock on the front door... isn't it that big?































I challenged him last night.



















No, my children.























































You've run away before, haven't you?







































































The problem is, right now it's impossible to find a job...










Is it true you're here because of your sister?

Come on, tell me the truth what you did to her!













































































- Military obedience, my friend.











Eight floors, my friend.





























They came for me, didn't they?

















































Is your friend scared? - Nope.





















I like it better that with this kind of job you've been outside all day...



















I really didn't see...










Step aside, woman...









































Can you really sell it to me?


Tell Arturo I'm coming tonight...









Good evening...



























































And as flattering as that is, I'm a close friend of his.














He needs to be cooled down by 7:00 P.M.








































I'm not talking to you as a lawyer, I'm talking to you as a friend.


-...a naked woman.












It's like not going to work and drawing stupid comic books for the demented.

Stan, I told the kids I was seeing you today.








The girl didn't have a microfilm in that diamond, did she?


And you know what you really should be doing. We talked about you getting married last night.

























Good evening, Judge Blackstone.






















I met her last night.















Yeah, and we liked each other.




And naturally, you agreed, and then we went back to the living room to announce our engagement, which was met with enthusiasm by our friends.


































I told her Mrs. Ford was going to Las Vegas this evening.










- Really, sir?
- Really.





































































Mrs. Ford, you know she said she met you last night when she came out of the cake.






















































































This woman isn't herself.


































He drives women.















Honey.





















Honey!
Work, pressure, stress.



Honey, I have a triple formula.









Honey, good morning.











It's good for you. Work with your hands.






















































Freedom? You know, they're like kids.




A woman can't really be free until she's married. Then you can enjoy your life, spend your money.
























I know a Danish woman.







Nice work.







In addition to everything, a woman. And I don't care what you think.












- Hey, honey. Sorry to wake you, but I think it's urgent.


























First of all, women.












Wait a minute, but women aren't allowed into the club.















Honey!

Honey!


In the 12th and 13th years of this club's existence, no woman has ever been here under any circumstances.




































































Mr. Ford, you and I know how women do it.














Tonight in New York City, the fool knows what happened!

Women, fuck them! Anyway, we need to develop a plan-- you're here, I'm there.





Look, I, you, Edna, I get it. ...the police, and 80 million readers of 463 newspapers from Maine to Honolulu, even my children know that you killed her and dumped her body in cement.










But, honey, you're...

But darling.





















It's been a dark night, isn't it?













I wasn't smarter than the doll myself, was I, sir?
















As my only witness, I'd like to call my old friend, Mr. Lampson's lawyer.















Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?




















- Do you have two charming kids?


















































It's an artificial myth that exists only because of the desire of women.











You know, with Edna and the kids, and payments for a house in Scartsdell and, of course, a lot of insurance.


















- Really?



















Instead of an insanely expensive house in Scartsdell, you're gonna have a whole house of your own.






















- Bailyphics, get this woman out of here. - Good idea. Throw it away.





All right, woman, you can go.





For too long, an American man allowed himself to be tyrannized and treated like a child. And make a demented idiot. It's all women.






Everything that's been said against me is true.














































The women of the Russian women were incredibly cold then, they disappeared, their delight was truly delicious when they met the winners screaming and throwing caps in the air.
That then-military man doesn't admit that a Russian woman owes him the best precious reward he's ever had.














































You listen and understand the rare dignity of our women for our same-looking beautiful women who, before the wedding, hold their mothers' opinions and after the wedding, the views of their husbands.






















It's time for Mashenka to choose a friend.













My wife meets an old friend of mine, comrade.



































Kids, come into our arms. Unbelievable.






They swore to each other in eternal love they complained about fate and made various assumptions.





And the truth is, the young man is so good-looking.



























My friends, let me order my brother to serve the wine.




It was further decided that the witnesses would go immediately and agree with the Jadrin priest, the old man is angry with the truth, but it was Drevin who took over this battle for me at the first time.


Friends will be waiting for the bride and groom at the church when they get to the wedding. Everything will be ready from the church. We'll be right at the station.


































































Accepted him worse than a retired sitter, for God's sake.



























































































































































































































- The baby's gonna get a heart attack.









So, for nothing, my old friend, we were saving our freedom,














It's really hot.

It's "Lonely Woman."
- What woman?
- The "Lonely Woman" movie.

- A woman left behind.
- Poor woman.
- A forgotten woman.
A woman in white.
Tired woman.
A woman with a guitar.

- No, the woman with the guitar.





























































Good night.

























































I believe, friends, in the caravans of missiles!





















Tonight I'll find out at 8:30 a.m.

















































































































- You'll buy it. What's tonight, wandering down the street?



















Good evening.

































Maybe we should go to the movies tonight.









































The baby-- you think it's easy?






























Health, work and personal success.






That's a lot of work, not until then.




































































- Good evening.









As your friend, you will live a full, meaningful life.























































- Hey, buddy, hold this for a minute.











































































































Women.
Men and women are the main philosophical question.











































You don't feel sorry for yourself. - Burning at work.




























































Look, we're on a trip to work.







































What kind of work did you like at the young artists' exhibition?















What do you like about modern work?


















- I'll see you in the afternoon. And tonight?
- I'm sure it'll be tonight.














































- Good evening, Grandma.
















































































































































Why don't I know, my dear?




People, in general, don't give a shit about each other, no matter how sad it is to admit it.


I've been talking to them about work and I've been able to watch them very carefully and for a long time.














That's it, my dear.


What do you mean people don't care about each other?





















































You don't have to be at work by 8:00.




I don't understand why you throw words, leave the house tonight with loud declarations to come back at dawn and say good morning.



























Who controls the work of the boiler.






















It's no big deal that we could lose each other.
























So you're calling tonight?













- Five nights.




It's me with "Good evening" Shurov and Rykunin confused.







































































































Every morning, I get up, I go to work, I buy cigarettes, I eat, I breathe, I go to the movies.













































































































I notice that we've started to misunderstand each other, somehow to distance ourselves.
























































Even so. Then the children will be born.






























Tired, a lot of work.




































- Really? - Paul Robson.

A far black friend, Giant, singer, fighter.










It's funny, isn't it?


















I'll go to the movies tonight.



































































































































Although, to tell the truth, sometimes I thought.










Comrade Lenin, the work of hell will be done and done.







A man dear to me, like...































Why don't you have kids?
Do you have children?



































Why aren't you talking all night?








































































































































































It's gonna be morning for you to go to work.






















And as hard as it is sometimes, I know we don't have anything more expensive.










I really don't know.

































































We'll do it my dear!

It's really not my fault.





You know... they were my friends.
Just friends.

































Your friends...







































































































































































































































Good evening.












Good evening.
















True, it's not great, but it's very romantic, even though it smells like it. There he is.




















































Who pushes us against each other. Who's been using us ever since.














Everyone has their own, really.
Did Liberty have its own truth?




















Love, my darlings, love...


































































































































































































This is my only son, sir... and he has a little child.



















But for friends.











































I have a wife, children,




















































Good evening.





















































Good evening.




You're just like a child...










































But we can't understand each other...

























































You're a child...
I fell in love with you... because you're just such a kid.




































































































































































It doesn't matter that for no reason... we kill each other.



































































































I've got two kids!





















































































I don't need your guidance, my friend.














































Oh, darling... what a coincidence...























Look, honey.









My darling.


Don't, darling.







Oh, my dear... are you upset?


























































You're worried, aren't you?

























































That's not true!


















It's their job, Leona.





















































Oh, Blog, welcome, my friend.





Oh my friend, these weird peasants, and most of all, there are Hungarians, Romanians, I'm already silent. By pretending to be plowing the ground. They've reached the front line.



















































































It's true.
































































































































Oh, my dear brother, who did you leave us with?

My dear brother, who did you leave your babies on?
My dear brother!



Petrick, my dear, who did you leave me with?




























































darling, you're mine.









Save and protect my son Ivan, and remember the souls of my children, Michael, Danilah.



















































Miko, at least you're telling the truth.









Oh, my dear child... why did you leave this world for nothing?












































I brought him something to eat tonight, and he doesn't want to, sit down, play the drembe and think about it.

















They're here for the holy evening, so it's all over the village...



- Really?




Ivan and Palagna water, Ivanku, isn't it warm?
























In the crèches, the ripen, among the animals, bowed to the sleep of the great God. Palagna, where's my baby?




..that's how life was going. It's a holiday to work. It's a holiday to work.
Tomorrow, God wouldn't give them children and Palagna would steal...





Praise Jesus Christ, dear masters.











































We've loved each other since we were little kids.

































































































































































































































































































He knows everything, it's true. I learned in Russia.




















































With a stretcher, behind each other...




























Lieutenant morphine's already carrying... don't worry, we'll be in Tao Tsay tonight, and the plane's coming for us tomorrow.












Was he your friend?




































































































































By 11:00 p.m., we were out of business.






























Okay... until tonight, no pants...









































































A distance of 5 meters from each other!












































































































































































































































































This woman is dying.




















































































Nice work!












































They're coming to see the results of their work.





























































And that's for women.





But women are women, even if they are poor.






















But a good doctor who gives himself all his work.
































It's not easy to work here.








Dr. Amano is his friend.
































































So is the job here if you're good at it.














































I don't believe women.





















































But you're gonna listen, aren't you?
I did kill the employees.


When I was a kid, a man caused me unbearable evil.
But... a woman can't talk about it.







































































































































































She came and brought her three children.





















I learned the truth after he married me.

















I knew what he really was, and I still had three kids!





"Come with me, and you and the kids."



How could I bring the children of a man who took his wife and daughter from him?










I put up with everything for the kids.





I thought I'd take the kids to my father and surrender myself to the authorities.














My children... what will happen to them?
Children.



Send the kids and Sahati to him.







The kids ran away!








Still talking to a woman.
He doesn't have any women he knows.




















But when I think about my wife and kids, I drink more.


























The woman I brought in is his daughter.





We're friends.



I remembered something to him... and made this woman come out.






In fact, this poor woman should have been released.
































































And she had a baby on her back.
Your baby?






My own wife... stood in front of me and fed the baby to another man.






































A woman like me didn't deserve it.




























I don't know anything about her husband or the baby.









Really good.
It's not easy to work here. But if you want, you can learn a lot.














































You're eating expensive dishes... and you haven't picked up anything heavier than food sticks in a long time.





















And there's no difference between expensive drugs... and those sold at the pharmacy?
















I told you to send this woman home.






























Why did you want to dress up like this?


















































What does a child have to suffer for?



















































You're a really good girl.






























































































When I left for Nagasaki, she was just a kid.
And now she's just beautiful, isn't she?

















































































































And my brothers are just kids.















































































































































































































































You have a baby?













































































































But there's gonna be a show tonight.













- I've got a job to do.





























We don't understand anything, and tonight we die.















I'm happy to do my job, Monsieur Johnson.













































































































































Tonight we learned that life and death are within the same circle.





























There's only one woman for 50 men who have been sentenced to death.










We know the truth you can't see anymore!
This truth is that there is nothing but love and faith, courage and tenderness, generosity and self-sacrifice.
























Gold and women.















































































































One instruction... is mostly not enough to show... Alpha 60 work.






































































You really don't know what that is?

Naked truth.

































































I need to know the truth.












































































So Monsieur Ekel was telling the truth! What?



































Last night you lied to me.

































No writing! Did you not notice that the word writer begins with the same letter that the word is true?


































































Successive shy governments are trying in vain to reconcile the various forces that are breaking into parts of the Weimar Republic.











Poor and disappointed people wander in search of work and a piece of bread.




























































Tonight for a walk?


A lonely woman like me to have such a guest in our time is a great fortune.
















One guy who sits by the orchestra's desk all night.







You really want to buy me a drink?











Every night.
























Looking for a job.




I have a lot of friends.





















































200 marks for membership - and work secured.









Now that no one cares about each other...




































Here are your friends.


















Work!








Someday you'll find a job.






Good evening.

















































































































And it's not our job to help the police.

















































Let's start tonight.
Tonight?





See you tonight.









































That you stalk women at night with a knife in your pocket?













"I'll see you tonight.






















































































































































































































































































































































































Oves for morning and evening, two pots.










































































































There's a little bit, isn't there?













































- Really?






















































































































































- Cyril, is a horse more expensive than a motorcycle?






























































































We are ready to demonstrate and have prepared all the progress reports and what we have to do.


















He's in charge of seismographs.





I'm sorry, Steven. I'm not reading. I won't be able to finish my job.





































































I hope I didn't disturb your bedtime preparation, my dear.






































I want a baby, Stephen.







We can take him to work, let him play the logarithmic line.










































































Let's see what they decide when you tell them the truth.

The Commission has granted permission for the continuation of the work.














It's gonna be hard for you to find another job like this.




















































No, I'll keep doing my job.




































































































Also, if you meet a friend of mine, Rampion, tell him to come back here soon.









































All we have to do is separate these metals from each other.











































































































































































But your rush at work, she doesn't forgive such mistakes.

I can't even let someone else finish my job for me.





























Now you must be very happy about it, my dear?





That's very kind of you, my dear.

































































I knew I shouldn't have agreed to volunteer for this job.




































































































Dr. Evans is treating radiation disease, which is why he couldn't continue his work.







































































Does it make sense to have a life with each other?

























































Look, they're moving towards each other.























































No, I have to finish my job.







































This job is humiliating.










At that time, some children were eating human food.


















































































Your mother and I were good friends. Now we'll take care of you.
































He needed a good job.





Think about the research work.









Really?






































Good evening, Mother.




Good evening, Larissa.
Good evening, sir.





He was a friend of my late husband.


Tuesday, if it works, darling.

































Come on, darling.





This place must be awfully expensive, Monsieur Komarovsky. Yes.




She's smart, isn't she? Your mother?

Smart woman.





















- Isn't Yuri looking good?
Time to go, darling.





The French are a very intelligent nation. They bowed their heads to each other.









Oh, Pasha, darling.




Pasha, darling!





There were women and children, Lara, and they were pushed by horses.
Hungry women asking for bread.


Pasha, darling, I'm not your comrade.





Do you know what our God says about women found in treason? Yes, Father.





























I'll be right out. If you want, darling.


























- About 8:00 tonight.



Come on up, darling.

Come on, darling.


Well, honey, that's it.












































You can tell her the truth if you want, Larissa.



















































This kind of man brings misery, especially to women.






Because there are two types of women.

You, my dear slut. I'm not like that.


























My dear man.










- Our fates seem to be connected. - Yes. - I was your father's friend.



















You mean I don't tell anyone the truth about this girl? Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.





















Best job I've ever had to do.





Disgruntled by their work.





































































Order of the Interim Government. We'll have to try, my friend.















"And most importantly, my dear, how are you?"








And the nurse is a good woman!


















My dear...







Sometimes, comrade sister, women must wait.





























When you get to work, you'll get a food book.












- Is that true, darling?


























- Really? Why? - Because it is.



























The old man was hostile. A woman is careful.

I think only a woman knew about their situation.




















The woman knew what it meant, what it would mean.

























































We're going there, darling.











I'm with my wife and kid.

























































What will you do with your wife and child in Varykino?








































































































- Really?


















- I'm going to Juratin, darling.







Yeah, yeah, honey, do what's best.





I'm sorry, but I have a wife and a kid in Varykino.


















I had a wife and four kids.


We took him away from his wife and child.










































- Tonya. Yuri, darling.



















My dear. I'm sending this letter to Larissa Antipova 'cause if you're alive, God forbid, I think you're headed that way.









































































You have to take care of the baby!























































We'd have a wedding, we'd have a house and kids.
If we had kids, Yuri, would you want a girl or a boy?




Come to me, darling.


































Or is your sensitivity so inordinate that you will sacrifice a woman and a child to her?



















I'm expecting a baby from Yuri.


Just like a lot of other kids.













He let me buy him a new suit and get him a job at his former hospital.
I saw him go to work the first day.







His work at the time was inaccessible. The party didn't approve of them.






She came to Moscow to look for her child.













































What are we supposed to say to each other?























Lake AKA woman Obsessed


























But if I had followed your advice, my dear Mr. Bernard, I assure you, I would have been ruined.














And we don't have a whole lot of people doing paperwork.

But at my age, women are past the stage.




























Thank God there's no shortage of work here. And there's no reason to be bored.



I wanted to finish one job and rest.








My job is fatally boring - a newspaper salesman in a small town always edits stories from nothing to do. ( ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪





Yeah, I know that, doctor-- we used to look at them from the boat when I was a kid.












































A lonely and very rich woman.


But why was the woman I was mistakenly following outside wearing her coat?



























































No one knows the truth that lies behind this death.







There's a picture of Tilde and some of her friends.






























But the money proved it, dear Mr. Bernard.






























































































How's your job going?





If your work is going well.










































You can't blame me for finding the truth so hard.
























He was her friend.

































This marriage, to tell you the truth, wasn't very successful.






















































The thing is, witnesses say they saw a poor girl walking down the lake last night.

They often meet in private places at night.











Truth be told, her behavior always seemed a little weird to me.



































What kind of dark truth connects these two deaths?























I've got a lot of work to do, I don't think I'm gonna be able to find time to meet, I'm sorry.







































































































































Congratulations again, my dear Commissioner.



And the truth is, this union of police and the press has allowed us to finally rid the country of Fantomas.


















And then they say I panic, scare the kids, and demoralize the police.



















My friend Fandor didn't cheat you.






















Now the professor's knowledge is more important to Fantomas than all the gold of the world. You have to prove that the police commissioner's brain is worth at least a billion.


















































































If I understand, Mr. Professor, your research is related to Professor Marshan's work?

In our scientific work with Professor Marshan, we have thoroughly studied hypnosis.
The purpose of our work is to create a device capable of projecting a telepathic beam, controlling thoughts and giving orders at a distance.





But don't worry, Professor Marshan won't be able to complete the work without the results of my latest experiments.














































It's true.



































































- It's really love.


- Women, women. - Are you married? - Yes.























































What kind of work are you doing here at the hotel?











































































I'm happy to welcome our dear colleague Professor Lefèvre.









Dear colleagues, I'm glad we're here again to share our thoughts and take stock of our scientific research this year.

The results of our work are so convincing that I propose that we meet every year from now on.



























































































































































































Weird, weird woman.























Your friends are here, they're trapped.


















- My darling. My love.
- Now's not the time, darling, let's go.












































I hope you like my place, my friends.






Calm down, dear Helen.




















Since Lady Beltham disappeared, I need a close friend.
I want you to be that friend.



- Tell me, my friend...












Turn around, look at each other.












Good job, look.

















































































Dude, are we gonna be in Benghazi on time?





























































































































































































We're not gonna freak out at work, are we?



































He does have music.













I don't think you're gonna find the right station until tonight.





































































































































































































































































































- Really?
- Yeah, really!






































































































































































































































Let's get back to work.































































Let's get to work, you old drunk.

































Nice work, Heinrich...















































If you leave them alone, they'll leave and we can keep working.




































































































I'll take care of them, but we need your instructions.




































All the work.








































































The little sausage for the kids is done and put on the back.










































































































































































































I am a woman who has reached the age of majority.
In college, I was the first woman to be the editor of a newspaper.



I'm not gonna take my cuffs off if I don't get your job.








"A woman dies of starvation at the men's bathroom" at the New York Sentinel.

I'll do anything to protect the rights of women.

















I don't just want this job.
I want to address the inequality of women who are not recognized as full members of society.





He's wearing it. And even very expensive.

A woman who wears transparent stockings can look very attractive.

Now it's clear that you've never seen a woman in transparent stockings.



Come on. There's nothing a man and a woman can't discuss with each other if they're adults and civilizeds, and they're equal in front of each other.



Women have to fight for their rights to be equal to men.



He's really shy. But I appreciate it.












Are you, of course, telling me that I'm the first woman to ask for a personal meeting with the Great Leslie?

























A woman who does a man's job becomes a rival. Both in terms of gender division and economic.






Do you want a wife, a companion, or just a woman?


Men talk about relationships with women.

But I'm not a gentleman. I'm a woman.


I'm a grown woman, and you're a grown man.
There are some things that should only apply to men or women.


















You're afraid of real women! All right, lady.










Children. Regular kids, kids again.
Stupid kids.


































































































































You say weird because I'm a woman.




Not as a woman, but as a real motorist.






So what? The fact that you, as a woman, decided to ignore the practical recommendations, gave in to emotions, and performed in races that you would never be able to complete.




































Well, that was really funny back then.

Yeah, we care about every second.











You have to take this key, and we're waiting for you at the party tonight! And whatever you say, you'll still be our honorary guests! Otherwise, I'll tie you up!

















My friends and I look forward to your celebration. And thank you for the hospitality of your charming town!



















Move, darling. How long will you stay here?











Honey, you have a great smile.
















Dear Jack.















Jack, darling!



























































































You see, there's no place for women in these races.








That crazy woman.

































































































































You're a brave woman, Miss Dubois.





























I'm talking about men and women. I'm talking about sex.





But she's gonna fight for her women's rights.



























































We need a job.
We need a job.






Yes, darling.

Sorry, honey.













How's Russian for "friends"?








Friends. Friends.










They still don't want to hire women.



























You and your friends are under arrest.























































Oh, that's really happiness.

Good evening, Your Highness.






























































































Good evening.

















Don't try to set me up with him, my friend. I want you to stick to the deal.


























As long as Leslie's free, we have every minute of it.

As long as Leslie's free, we care about every second.




























The children will be proud of her.




Good evening, Baron.




















































































As you know, I have a strong conviction and firm position on women &apos; s rights and gender equality.





You're a free woman, Miss Dubois.


You're the most unreasonable and stubborn woman!














Any woman who behaves arrogantly thinks she's equal to men.
And any man who behaves arrogantly thinks he's better than any woman.
Any fool knows a woman can't...

























You're the woman who's afraid of an open relationship.








And since I think I'm completely free and conscious of morality, I can still call myself a responsible woman who doesn't intend to jump into bed with a man on the first signal. Equal rights don't mean I have to act against my feelings. And I only agree with the things I believe in.






































You and your friends always make it worse for me, and I'm upset!




















































































































- Hey, there's a guy down there on his head.


Your friend is in mortal danger.









I missed the courage to ask him, but since I'm his best friend...

































































































































































































































































- They're terrible, aren't they?




















I've always admired that friend of Scott's, he froze to save his comrades.















































































































































































My friends will get you.


































































Really. Well...


Dad, you really look really nice.







- Okay? - We're running late, darling.










- Hello, darling.


























It's a business, and it's a relationship thing! Can't we find someone else? But, darling, I've searched everyone I know before I hire Mrs. Bill.










































If it's a rare occasion for me to go out on a date, they have to go to our backyard to pick me up in the car and bring me in no later than 10:00 p.m. and then go home from that cup.






























































































































































































































































I'll meet you anywhere at your house at work.






























About his work, his ex-girlfriends, where he's been...





I'm kind of a kid, Keith... I can take care of myself.










































Well, calm down, honey, maybe they'd like a good night to Carman.




























































































I've been calling home for an hour, my kids have been left unattended, and nobody's picking up the phone.
























































































































Tess, you're such a kid!










The body of an unidentified woman was found tonight in the woods near Oakland Hills.


According to Police Chief John Holliday, the police were sent to the woman's burial site on a tip from Linda Carson, 22 years old, born of Evan Grove.








































Yeah, you're just a kid.















































- Look, a woman was killed today. - I heard on the radio.










Lucky my daughter finally told me the truth, I wasn't that scared!







































































































My darling, that's out of the question.



















































Thank you for a lovely evening.



























































- Nope. His barracks manner with women won't go away.






















But we're friends.






































































At this time, you should be at work.
And you're at work, of course.













- That you love women.



But there are still more women.




And they gave me a job.




































































































































You didn't come here to talk about mushrooms or women. Excuse me.


































































Really?



















































My dear, I am happy to see you in good health.





And so I am very happy to ask Dr. Radcliffe to share with us the results of his work.









































































































































































































































































































- Good evening, Mr. Guha.




















































Let me take you to my friend's bungalow.










































































































































Isn't that right, Mr. Roy?



































Or even, we're together, aren't we, darling?










And this knowledge is acquired with experience and hard work.
With a fucking hard job, Mr. Roy.











































































































I'll get a job.
I'm gonna be okay. I'm gonna be okay. I'm gonna be okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm gonna be okay, I'm goin', I'm gonna be okay, I'm goin', I'm gonna be okay, I'm okay, I'm goin' okay, I'm okay, I'm go school, and I'll get a job.
Since I got my diploma, it won't be hard to find a job.

You're gonna get a job, too, aren't you, if you try?










































































I was offered a job, but I didn't.



























































































































































Well, at least we can think of each other without running into outsiders.









































































Yeah, that's what happens to me when I fall asleep at work.










































Yeah, it's true, but still...









"Someday someone's gonna ruin your job, too."














































There's a new boss at work,
























Really?

























































- Really?


I know them through my childhood friend from Bagbazan, the famous Professor Nanny.











































Did he get a job?




Did you get him a job or something?





























































































































- Really?













































What's the point, my friend?







































































































































































































































































































































































































































- Nebhu was just a kid.
- I was just a kid.

















































































Good evening.
Good evening.
Good evening.






- Really?













Yeah, really?













































































































































Really?


























































































Or not. Tell us, friend, where can we find her and her morra?





Where's my sword? Come on, my friend!



















I welcome you, friends!

























Your grays, my dear Signor, the sword will inspire us to listen. A contemptible thief!





Die the heat, my friends and you, all the others!





























What are you going to say to him? The only thing is the truth.

Masters, my patrons! What I took from an old man's daughter is true, and it's true that I'm married to her.











And you have not brought us anything, Signor. Like, isn't it, Othello,














I was talking about the wretched cannibals, the friend of the eaters, the people whose heads are just below their shoulders...

























































































I called myself your friend and, I confess, I'm very attached to you. You deserve it.









































It is as if he were created to deceive women.


























- We know it's a friend.
























- Looks like friends again.










Get up for games, go to bed for work.




































Ah, gentle friend, I'm out of my mind, God knows what I'm saying.































































'Cause he didn't have a single night to have fun with her, and she would have enjoyed Jupiter himself. - Amazing woman!

What's true is true: but it's pure itself, tenderness itself.









I've already had one drink tonight, really, and it's very thin. Look what a change I've had; I'm such a man.














































God is above all else, and there are souls that must be saved, and there are souls that must not be saved. - That's right, dear lieutenant.











I'm standing on my feet and talking pretty good, aren't I?










- Every night.

























- Friends, that's enough!























When I came back, it all happened quickly, caught them in a fight, hurt each other, beat each other, just like you did when you cut them apart.













Here, darling, the soldier's fortune:









































































Thanks, man!

















I'll spare no effort to make you friends again.



































- Tonight? - No, not today.


Well, tomorrow night; Tuesday morning;
Or Wednesday night, give me a date, three days, no more.



A friend of yours, Cassio, with whom you came many times on the days of your marriage,
























































You plot against each other, Yago: You think your friend is insulted, yet you do not speak.





Honor, General, for women and men, the priceless treasure, the treasure of their hearts.
















Tell me that my wife is beautiful, don't mind playing and singing among friends, dancing, singing, free of speech - doesn't mean jealousy wakes up:































And Cassio will suffer, my friend...





'Cause to tell you the truth,



































- What are you, my friend?
















































































Thank you for the lesson: I won't be loving friends forever, for love is a man's spit.







































































My friend's dead. If you say he's dead! But let her live.

















Fine, my friend.





















That's right, my friend.













Really? Really?
Yeah, really.
































Alas, my faithful friend!


































































































































































































And to think, he's not putting your wife, this reckless woman, in any way:


But what a woman! Beautiful! Sweet!
















































- Are you sure about this? - What, my friend?













- What, my friend?












What, my friend?




























































Here's to the usual job!







































































I don't know what to say. The teachers of Dobrah and the children are chewing on them nicely.
That's how he's gonna be. When it's cursed, I'm right, like a child.










Jealous grooms to reject, abandon Father, country, friends - and then all to hear "beast"!












































My reasons are true, naked truth.

































































My ears are ringing all night this song--























"I loved women, so love men!" Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,








































































My darling, darling!






















My friend is dead.





















































































































































































Yeah, I have to testify to the truth.























My friend, your husband, my honest, honest Yago.























- I said what I thought, and no more than the one he thought was true.











It's all true.


- Unbelievable truth!































A woman with a sword?



































































































Who, like an Indian, cast away the Pearl, which was dear to the treasures of all the valleys around him.







Your job.
































































If I promise to do all the work on time, can I go again... tomorrow?


Leave it there on the way to work.











When are you gonna do your job here?




















- It's okay with my face, isn't it, Ol Pa?




































































































I promised I'd do my job in two days by tonight.





- Really?



























































































Mommy, darling! Beads!



It's my job, and I promised to do twice as much today.























- Do you like this job?

























































And I'll tell you what, if I come home tonight and find out that this baby was back in the park...






























- You're gonna pick me up now, aren't you?















































































































Well, maybe "friend" doesn't mean much to you.

















I have to go to work.
- Do you really need to?











Good evening, Slina!




- You're a wonderful and tolerant friend!





















Calm down. The baby didn't mean anything like that.


Thank you, darling!







































































































































I'm his friend!
















- She says she's your friend.


















She's just a friend.








He talks fast, doesn't he?



















































Until now, she's the only one who's ever been my friend.

Everyone needs a friend.















- She was just a beautiful woman.









- You're a kid!
- I'm not a kid, Gordon.



































In fact, she was written by a blind woman.































I still have to get back to work.








- I really love you!







Now I'm grown up and I don't act like a kid anymore. I'm gonna be okay.





















Ol Pa, do you want me to mark you at work this morning?











Sadie invited me to dinner last night.





























- Feeling bad, darling?






















I have to go to work.
- Do you really need to?





































He said your friend called him, Mr. Ralph.






































Really!










































I'm fine, Gordon, really.

































Boy, it's not your job! Let the snowflakes teach their women!


























































- Well, that's different. She can do the first job.

I'll take you there tonight.






























- She was just a beautiful woman.
















































Does he know what happens on the other side of the corridor when he's at work?





















She's your baby.
































All I care about is that I have a chance to end this messed-up hotel job, and I'm not gonna lose it!



















I told them what they could do with this lousy job!




















- I don't know for sure, but she's quitting her job.






















































- Get your hands off my baby!

















You don't care what happens to the baby?
She's not a kid anymore, Rosanna.







They can pick you up tonight.

















































Selina, you're gonna meet a lot of new people, men and women.

Whether marriage has anything to do with how we feel about each other.
































I'll teach your children.







Are you a mullah to teach our children?




Yeah, it's true.










Tell me, why are our kids at school? Why?





You don't want your kids to go to school and become literate people?









So why don't you obey this paper where it says, "You have to teach your kids?" There's a seal of Soviet power.



























They don't send their children to school here.











































Who told you this counter-revolution? Kids!




Kids! World capital is looking for a loophole in our ranks.








You must be smarter than the Bay kids.








































See how babies are babysitting!














You know why you don't have kids?



















































Well, I'm waiting for you tonight.
Yeah? Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Are you coming tonight?
You're gonna sleep at my place. Kids!










































You're talking to an old man. What example do you set for your children?










You took all the kids from me.































































A real fiancée! Esselam aleikum, dear guests!

















Oh, Qasim! Another frontal friend showed up!




















Except you're not worth it. - Yeah, really.































































You don't meet any dear guests?













- Mulla. Who's gonna name our friends?

































































Darling!






































































And now people are ashamed to look in the eyes. You came here to teach the kids, and what did you do?














And remember my words! This is the first freed woman in the east.


Our Ayl, the first Ayl where the truth has defeated evil.

















































No mother will let the children go to you now.




















Tomorrow night is supposed to be in Tashkent.

































- Stop it. We'll see each other, won't we?
I'll see you around, won't I?











Cut off your ears, you'd rip out your tongues. Because you're enemies to your children. You don't want your children to know the world better than you do.
I want your kids to learn.


























But we don't want our kids to die because of your school. You better get out of our ail.
























And in this school, your children will be studying. And the children of your children. And I won't teach them.














One field of berries - men, women, all mixed up.
















































































































Good evening!

Hello, darling!


Good evening. Ah, Renee.

















We're old friends, and we're also partners.








Animals don't eat each other.









































































Aren't we friends?


















































They're just kids.













































































































But I think we need each other.




























You want to hook up with your wife and kids in your house, don't you?

















You're a real friend.

























































































But I can't agree with your behavior. And I'm not telling you as a friend, I'm telling you as a commander of the post.












Is that true?
There is no truth in the world other than this one.





























I've never seen a woman put up a suitcase so fast.

You don't believe me? But it's true.







































Really, I don't know...

























































Like two children in love.











It's a normal interest and makes it possible to get to know each other better. Agreed. Look...








I'm wearing a strong woman mask,





























I'll introduce you to my friend. It's incredible.











































New job, Reginald.


































Well, women...




Nadine, is that true?




































































































































I've been offered a job. Work out costumes for a comedy in New York.



























This is my friend.
This is my friend.





























So, all of a sudden, you decided to change my life. My way of life, the women I can date, my job, and what else...



















My friends, who have divorced parents, live with their mothers. Why am I, no!








Tell me the truth. Think before you answer me. Were you unhappy with me?













We came up with a language to understand each other.






















































Yes. But without a woman.












For your father, you need my house! And there's a woman in the house.

















In the winter, here, here, one, without a woman, is a worthwhile painting.


























This, my young friends, is a sea sponge.




It's true. Clean, really.






























We don't love each other, do we?


We don't love each other...



In his life, all he cared about was the mysterious and elusive that made the shapes and sounds flow smoothly into each other. The space is expanding, and no blows or concussion can stop or change this process.


The world of sick children, crazy, dwarfs, kalecks, jokes dressed by princes, who were supposed to laugh at themselves and make fun of those who stood above the law.




Velásquez is the painter of the evening, space and silence. Even when he writes the painting during the day, even in a closed room, even when there is war or hunting around him.







Of course, 'cause Johnny the Guitar is coming, the kids need to be raised.



I'm not going, I'd rather stay with the kids.









No, and when you're offered a job, you should be happy to accept it.






- She loves kids.


































Women must give up underwear and romantic foams.




















































The radio said 115 guerrillas, which causes no reaction. And each one of them was a person, and no one knows if he loved his wife, if he had children, which he preferred: cinema or theatre.
















I know, but you can't say "my friend Ferdinand."













- What? We'll always love each other.


In 60 years, when we die, it will be clear if we loved each other.



























































































And I see a woman, I love a man who, at full speed, throws himself into the abyss.































































I saw a cafe where one night Van Gogh decided to cut off his ear.


































You should leave a woman when she says you're out of your mind.

It's true.



I feel death in nature, in the faces of women, in trees, in cars.






























































































































































We'll never understand each other.








































































































































































You were with Marianne when she killed our friend Donovan, and you escaped with the $50,000 I owned.






- Either it's true or it's not.



What a terrible night.

What a terrible night.


What a terrible night.



















































It's true.























































Then they looked at each other, she's downstairs, and he's out the window.


































































A woman can also shoot, although she has beautiful breasts and thighs.









- Yes. - Meet me tonight?








I look at the woman who makes me suffer.


















































Beautiful, adorable woman, you know?







There was a woman next to me.









That was the third woman...






"Really, yes, really," I said. And here...











































Are the kids okay?













Stanislas Evarist Dubois, the third volume of your Memoirs, is awarded the Beard Award as the best book on intelligence work.

































With smugness, he shares with us so-called memories in which all possible clichés and bad taste compete with each other.























Dear friends!
My friends! In what words do I describe the happiness that fills me when I see all of you here?





























What a night!















I'm taking a job at home.







You really don't keep a stone in your bosom.

























































































He was having an affair with a married woman, you know, things could have happened.











































Deal, dear nephew.


We meet at 7:00 p.m. outside Figaro's office.





Why would an American come to her work?


































With a light ferry! Have a nice evening!


































Dear colleague!












Poor friend of mine!

























Ah, dear friend.







How are you, dear friend?


















































Mademoiselle, if you speak, your friend will have a fragile chance at salvation.







































































































- Is he really your boss?
- Really.

I have a friend who's an auto mechanic. I already called him and asked him to tow your car. He sent an accident there.

















No, woman.



































































There's a woman here dressed in mourning. She claims to be a member of the family.















































































































Come on in, darling.
























Good evening, lovebirds.

- Now, guys, let's get to work!
















- Dear friend!



















- Actually, no.





























There's nothing here, my dear Dubois.




































Dear friend, would you be so kind as to stand up against the wall?
I don't want to hurt such a charming woman.
































- Thank you, darling.

























































Really, Daddy?
























- I can't, I have to go to work.








How about tonight?
I'm sorry, but I'm busy tonight.








- No, she has a friend.

No, but a friend makes rabbits.








- How's work?





































































Will I see you tonight?


























































That's how they work each other out there!














































































































I went to work two days after my first birthday.

Now get to work, I'll talk to you later.








































I think your friends are gonna have to help you.
Why don't you have an unforgettable evening?




























































I doubt that, my dear.







































I, you know, I could be your good friend.










Honey, what's the matter?









































































They're only hungry for women.

How many women do you have there?












































































Really?






























































































You're a strange woman.














































You're hitting a woman?
Beating a woman is a manly thing, isn't it?





























You've never had a woman before.
















































































































































































































Women get pretty hot when you make them wait.







































































































































































If the court condemns him, is he really gonna get shot?




































It's all true.












Never let blame or women turn your thoughts away from battle.


































Tell them the truth.













































































Never let blame or women turn your thoughts away from battle, lose your head or the honor of the emperor's army.





A soldier from this battalion lost his head because of a woman.
When the enemy attacked, he was taken prisoner, and when he returned, he committed suicide with a woman.




Harumi was an amazing woman.





















































It's true. But I repented a long time ago.









We're gonna have to dig up some gardens. We'll buy a new shovel. A lot of work.


















Don't look at a woman, and don't let yourself be tempted by a woman's look.












You like it, don't you?






































































For he said, "Whosoever leaves his father, his mother, his brothers, his wife, his children, his possessions for my cause, will be rewarded a hundred times and will inherit everlasting life."






























































































































I'm the one who looked at the woman.




































Simeon Stolpnik, you and I are very different.













































Kids, kids.
















































































Maria, when you saw us and wanted us, you weren't ready for life here, were you?





















- There's seven kids.
Seven kids?
Do you love kids?





My wife died, he's alone with the kids.













Captain, seven kids.






































Change your clothes before you go to the kids.













Something wrong with the kids?
Not with the kids, with the governess.



























Kids will help.



They're whistling dogs, not kids.











We'll just be friends.





































Kids, everyone go for a walk.










Good evening.
- Good evening, children.
- Good evening, Fräulen Maria.



















- Rolf, good evening.
- Good evening, Franz.














Kids, I'm going to Vienna in the morning.





























































































- Not to me, to the kids.

Kids don't play. They're marching.





Even children.


















The kids will have a mother.













Tell her I'm her friend.





























































































The kids were scared of the thunderstorms, and I...





Really?





Did you hear that, kids?









- But they're kids.














Such lovely children are already lecherous.




























































































- You need a companion, and I have a place where they cook good, drink good wine... and get cheap. - Really?

















































I have the best tailor in Vienna, brilliant friends.


But throw all this away, and there's gonna be a rich and naughty woman.
















Where are the kids?

























You and George are just made for each other.


































And these... are my children.






Is it true or am I dreaming about it?
Is it true that my children climbed trees?








Kids like it.
And my kids are walking around the Saltsburg... in old curtains?



- Nonsense. - Kids can't play it.








She's a woman, understand.

















Children.
Kids?


You have such wonderful kids.






I don't know my kids.




































These are your children.































My kids won't sing in public.

Kids, who's... who's gonna be next?




























I need to get to know your friends.




Kids, it's time for bed.








- Good evening.






Only grown-ups fear women.









































It's time for the kids to go to bed.





Thought there wouldn't be any friends here.




Captain von Trump's children wish you a good night.















































You should be proud of such children.

What better way to express the greatness of our country than the innocent voices of children?












And that thing you were in last night?


Well, we're women.









There's nothing more attractive to a man than a woman in love with him.


















Champagne, darling?





I want to see these kids at the festival.





































































































Yeah, kids?

















I'm sorry, kids, but Maria's alone.














The children of von Trump, Mother.







































We used to look at each other sometimes, and it was hard for me to breathe.









The love of men and women is sacred.


















My kids shouldn't lock up.

My kids shouldn't be late.


So who's gonna tell the truth first?






































I should have told you the truth.



















































Even with the kids.








The kids said it was a wedding.
























































Missed the kids.

- Only for the kids?

















Really?


































- Kids?

























Hasn't he been in touch with the kids for a month?
Do men often communicate... after marriage with their children?
























- Liesel, is that true?










































Seven children in the family.



















If the kids don't sing, it's gonna affect Austria.









































Gather the kids.



And my back hurts, and my heart hurts when I think the kids won't go to the festival.





































It's just the names of the kids.




And the night air is bad for the kids.









































































Good evening.











- Kids...





















Children.





















What is your sin, children?



























Today, 50 are considered to be the age of bloom for women.



Yeah, women are different these days!





























Honey!





















Tell me, is it harder for men than for women?



































Good evening.












































Like a relationship between a man and a woman.
- Misako, not in front of the kids!








All men look for pleasure. And they certainly want a woman to be a virgin!


























And have kids.












If the boss finds out, he'll kick you out of work.












Honey!













Hang on, darling!








































When you get dumped by a woman like you, you start looking for fun.








Now we can meet in the evenings.






















Good evening.





So it's true?































































































Dear widower, am I interrupting?










I have to eat alone at night.















Are you as satisfied as a woman?




Really? Mr. Shizuo, Head of Department, help me, please.























































































Shizuo. Aren't you expecting a baby?



- That kid would be miserable.





















- It's early for work tomorrow.






































He was too weak to satisfy such a woman.





You have a whole collection of women.




























- You're going to work with Hashimoto?





























Honey.






It's true.



























- Give me a seat, suffocate the woman!

































- A friend of Zeke's, and you're giving a shot?



























































































- I have a wife and a baby here.















































Don't be afraid, friend.











































































- What, friend?











We'll shoot you tonight.





Why is it so urgent tonight?















































You have no idea what this job is.






"The woman's gonna get away with it."














The famous Anna Pavlovna Cherer, Freilina, and the nearest Empress Maria Fedorovna, gave herself such evenings as she alone had the gift to do.




I'm very sad to leave your lovely evening.


Nowhere, as at these evenings, was there so clearly a degree of political thermometer that was in the mood of the court of Peterburg Society.








Why do we, women, want nothing, do we need nothing?



























I'm sorry, but you don't understand anything about women.




When I thought I'd break up all this expensive relationship...





It's just one, no friends.









You treat me like a sick person or a child.









The Princess won't want to deny me the pleasure of spending the evening with you.


Never marry my friend, that's my advice.
Don't get married until you tell yourself that you've done everything you can until you stop loving the woman you chose until you see her clearly.



























Petrusha, my dear friend. Come on, you!





































































The name's dear with the babies.







I told your father the truth alone when he was in case.



























I'm telling the truth.






























My friend, I suffer no less than you, but be a man.












I'm reaching out to my friend, and tears from the eye of the spill, but no one cute me, crying for me, weep for me, people:




- A nasty woman.





Ah, my friend.


I'm the sixth ten, my friend...




















































































































































Wait, I have a view of you this evening.
Isn't she adorable?

With her the most unlighty husband would be unwilling to take the most brilliant place in the world, wouldn't he?

























For whom 80,000 people lived in a field without wives, mothers, children, without participation in all the interests of civil life, lived and moved in a stranger, unknown edge, field, road, forest,































































































That there was no cover, that Tushin didn't say, even though it was true.























Are you happy this evening?














My friend, Lelya!











































At 5 p.m., the battle was lost at all points.

























Nikolenka! My friend!


A friend of your son's.










































- My friend, he's very unhappy.

























Well, now to the health of beautiful women.




To beautiful women, Petrusha, and their lovers.










This is a very important moment for you, Graf. I can't help but tell you the truth.





























































































Why did you bring the baby there?
Why is there a kid in there?
Or was it a baby?


































Convinces that you see a precious creature that's connected to you that you're guilty of and hoping to justify.


































































Today, as of 12 p.m., the central government will cease to function and the country will be governed by 15 regional special commissioners.







Children under 15 years of age and their mothers.





Pregnant women.





This woman is headed from Bermondsey to Kent.
She and other women on this evacuation bus had to leave their husbands and adult sons in London.

That's why there's a possibility that mass evacuation could fail, because it's not known how many women are gonna refuse to leave their husbands and their homes to go with limited luggage to unknown cities, and there's no place to live with other people's families.








This woman now needs to be provided with shelter and food to an additional eight people.


















Children aged 19 and 21.

































































My friend's a construction contractor and he helped me with some stuff.




















































Gather all the children!


























































































An armed police team helping busy doctors reduce the suffering of people in the third category.
















It's too hard work.






































I just want my kids to grow up, that's all.






I just want my kids to be healthy and... so that this poison doesn't ruin their bones.














In a situation of famine, it is possible that declining food supplies will be preserved to encourage those who do dirty work for the benefit of society as a whole.













































Because of her constant exposure to radiation, she doesn't know if her child will be born alive.






These children were orphaned by the attack.








The number of thermonuclear weapons in the world has doubled over the past five years, and now, in equivalent terms, 20 tons of explosives per man, woman and child on the planet.
















































































Come on, man. That's our job.





































My dear baby. We got your letter from Madrid and a greeting card from London.




I keep thinking about you and your new ideas for work.




Keep us informed of your work.





















It's your friend, your big friend. Television is evolution...


We can use it anywhere. There's no need to go out every night.


















































































































































































Listen, man.






































Tonight, sir.






























I think we're gonna have a problem with this woman.


My dears, why are you all so frowny?
You must know the story of two Englishmen on an uninhabited island. They never talked to each other because they weren't introduced.
In short, we must introduce ourselves to each other.


















"Why just make kids when you can float in the clouds of Love?"














Honey, it happens to me all the time.




























My friend.























But you said it was safer to find another job.









Let's keep each other company.






















To our little Indian friends! And of course for our master!

- To our little friends!

- You can stay out of work.








- My dear sir, what's the old song?






















































You're guilty of Jennifer Hayes' death. Which was supposed to give birth to your bastard child.
































I'm telling the truth.




















I received a letter from Mr. Onim inviting me to visit him. And meet an old friend of mine who was also supposed to be here.



To tell you the truth, I came for a professional purpose.




Like the general, I received a letter from a friend of mine.


And I was also expecting to meet some of my friends here.



I'm here for work.
















































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But it's only Friday night.










Your Honor, I don't know the truth about you, but the voice on the tape didn't lie about me.












































































































Last night, we heard charges against us.











Since no one knew the truth, I was awarded and promoted.

Yeah, I was finally able to tell the truth.


If we're all telling the truth, sooner or later, we're gonna find him.

























My dear, will you come with me?













What's the point of flirting and secreting, Miss Bargen, if the truth is true, will it still be known?



























































It's gonna be a long night.
















Of course not, my dear.

Don't tell me, my dear Miss Bargen.




















My dear doctor, that doesn't prove anything.


































Now, my dear, don't talk about it.














How many people cook tonight?



























































I'm sure tonight.























































If that's true.
















He offered me a job in Hollywood. And I said, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.





































Tonight, you should stay in your room and lock the door.





























































If that's true, we're idiots.





















But my dear doctor, Mr. Onum made a mistake.



- Now we can trust each other.
He wanted to make us suspect each other.










It's true.




We all have to tell the truth.



I operated on a woman under the influence of...
















What about the girl who wore your baby?




















































We need to catch him and get the whole truth out of him.






























- Is that true?
















Now, Miss Clyde, tell me the truth.





























































I told the truth.













































































































Now we know the truth.

















It's a game of mind, my dear.














Excuse me, dear cat.















After that, no one ever suspected me. And the least of all is my dear doctor.


I knew you'd suspect each other.

I bet on you, my dear. Women are more devious.



Yes, my dear.










Never trust a woman.

But if we didn't believe each other... - Why did you believe me?























From now on, you're doing my voice commands if you want us to continue being friends.
And you need a friend as much as I do.





































I hope you kids know how to fly a ship... because I can't.






Yes, my dear.











A little more lessons, my friend... and we will take control of this expedition and immediately return to our homeland.








































I believe in new cybernetic paths for our friend.


































































Someone has to protect our friend, my boy.





Two steps forward, my mechanical friend.






























Don't be there long. I hope you don't have to, darling.






























Two steps forward, my mechanical friend.






























Not so much. Sweetheart.






























































































The upper and lower levels are autonomous, operating independently of each other.



























You've got your job, I've got mine.













However, Alpha Control reported that Dr. John Robinson, his wife Maureen and their children, Judy, Penny and Will, are still undergoing a routine medical examination.













































American compatriots are friends all over the world.






































































































































- It's okay, honey.















Don't worry, darling.


































































Look around, you're gonna crash into each other.

























































































































































My friends, first of all, I'm not an official member of this expedition.









Come on, darling.






She's grown up, isn't she?
















Don't touch me and my friends.



































You're on all the streets, in all the houses, you've taken their children!



























































































































































































































- She's not my daughter, she's the dead kid.




- A woman named Harriet Jones.

















































































































































































































































































































































































The johns are ready for work.

























































































Mom, Dad, Mickey and the baby.

































































































For example, do you really believe in ancient British who were able to build Stonehenge without my anti-gravity lift?





















































































































My dear, I... I don't think well at times, but I...









Stop worrying, my dear.



























































The old man was telling the truth!














































- Totally, my dear.























































Where are you with this rope, dear boy?































Isn't it, my dear boy?

- Yes, in time, my dear, in time.











Here she is, my dear.














Yeah, and both very happy to have another one, my dear.











"My dear fellow,


























Oh, good morning, my dear.





Oh, it's our boiling friend again.







- You know my plans, don't you?




















Honey, you're the emperor.












Why don't we have a party tonight?









Honey!





























The whole yard can't wait to hear him play, my dear.








I must say, you have a very unusual job.
















It's almost tradition, in fact, when Caesar's family wants to kill each other.
Anyway, everyone would like to be Emperor of Rome, wouldn't they?




Now, young woman, are you sure you won't reject me, Claudia Nero, little kiss?









Poppaea, darling. Hey.




I have the worst headache in the world, darling.



That weird young woman's been spinning me all morning.






Were you gonna find a woman here?























My dearest, most impressive.









































- That's right!

- Poppaea, my dear.










- It's rare for you, isn't it? - Forget it.






That's what I heard, my dear!




























You have to wait the night for the feast, my dear.





Dear Maximus, you saved my life!





































- She's not here, darling.

I loaded it with work.

Oh, my dear, how I forgot about her.



































A friend against a friend.






You're my friend.

















































He killed your friends.
















You're just a kid, and you don't know what you're talking about.





You're gonna do what Cocquillion says, aren't you?




















































- My dear Barbara!






I don't like to say it, honey, but you look awful, to be honest.
























Vicki, my dear...

That's not what you mean, is it?















Now, I don't think you should wait, my dear.




You're not even giving her a chance, are you?













You have to believe what Barbara did, try to understand, my dear, and why she did it!









Really, I'm sorry.












He got a job on the planet Astra.








Yeah, really, I guess it is. That's also a point of view, but I'll try not to notice it often.
















Stupid kid!
Stupid kid!























That's the way things are now, isn't it?















































Okay, we can't leave her here, can we?



My dear, why don't you come with us?




And if you love adventures, my dear, I can promise you their abundance!
Besides all that, by the way, you're gonna be among your friends.








Vicky, my dear!














That's not why you brought Vicky with us, is it, Doctor?







That's better, my dear. Now they're really fighting for their lives!

























































A friend of mine will come for me, Ian.


Right. - When's your friend coming?
- I think tonight.






















If we have to waste time until tonight, I suggest we hide.



They'll be waiting. Maybe. But I have a friend who specializes in problems.




























Oh, yeah, really?
















Maximus, darling...

























My life's work!



























I never doubted myself, my dear.



Almost mine, darling.







That new slave of yours, that girl, she and her friends are coming here tonight.













































- Nice work, Delos!












The great fire of Rome, my dear?

























































My dear Barbara, this young lady doesn't want to listen to people who do nothing all day.




Hurry up, my dear.



































- My dear, you're wearing this.


















I think we should find our friends and get out of here.














































Is that true?















This is an earthly woman we can trust, she can teach us to exist without wings, to live and to prosper.








































Well, my dear, we're far away.















Never noticed it before, my dear, but since you said no, I don't think so.



















































- My dear Barbara.





















- Why not, my dear?






















Yes, my dear, yes.



It's your responsibility, my dear.












- Hilio, this is Menopter's first friend who left Carsin.




- Well, my dear, is everything clear?





























- No, my dear, no.

Our friend is suggesting that this should go with you.




















Yes, my dear... and we're here!








If I knew the truth, I'd rather miss Morok.
































They're kids.
Hmm, "children," as you called them, grew up.















Ha, really?


























































Yeah, I think Barbara's quite right, my dear.






That's not a good idea, my dear boy.





Make up your mind, my dear?












Sometimes the least important things, my dear boy, lead to the greatest discoveries.









Sorry, my dear boy, you didn't notice the missing person when we were standing there, uh, looking at each other.
















Your memory is as sharp as it gets, dear boy!























Really?



That's right... that's right, dear boy!





















































































































































































Arrest three men - one man, one woman, and a young girl.





























Just my old friends!














I think my friends left the zone long before you asked me a question.














































I have to find her, Thor... and other friends.






















































Hold me back, dear boy!













It's okay, dear boy... the circulation hasn't frozen.




My dear governor, my dear Lobos, I don't think your soldiers are truly committed to their work, do they?





















But thanks to you, my dear boy, I'm unfrozen and I think I'm quite capable of meeting the atmosphere again.




























Yeah, it's true.
It's true, but the governor would be happy if we were both put back there.



























Well, it seems like a malfunctioning connection is giving our friend another chance.



I only have a word about your friends.








































No, I don't think so, do I, Barbara?



























































My dear Barbara, you have to try to remember, in the short time we've been on this planet, we've met people, talked to them and who knows, we could have even influenced them.















She found her friends... then the Morokans came.





























The future doesn't look so bad after that, does it?




Well, dismantling the museum won't take them long, will it?













Don't be, my dear boy, anytime!





















My dear Chesterton, I don't think I need your permission to take anything on my ship, and anything else, I don't...



Yeah, well, uh, basically, my darling, that's what's called the Spatial Time Visualizer.























Our young friend is a woman. Let us help her.

This woman can rot in one of the prisons until her hair is white before I trade with a man who kills my friends!











From me, it's cruel in the face of the death of our friends.

























































Lighten it up and tell me who the woman is.



















Why don't we help each other?









There's a woman, I'm an English woman. She made me look like a fool.



I'll bring this woman to you.














































And don't worry about it, my darling. Concentrate on what I'm doing.






























































But I can't believe a woman could leave on her own.

I mean, I mean, uh, this woman had, uh, an accomplice who helped her act as her guide.



What else can you say, woman?




















I'm a sad man who deprives children of a piece of bread from thieves!
























My dear Chamberlain, how unworthy.








Bring a woman to bring me a bed to a horse!


























































Oh, good morning, my children.










Ah, how generous of you, my dear.



















I don't think they've gotten into any trouble with the costumes, have they?





















- What old man are you talking about, woman?


























































- Good afternoon, my children. Good day.





- We're looking for our friend.








































- Thank you very much.






























































































































































































Come on, follow those women!




























What about the woman?

























I have an old friend.




































If the women don't leave the building and surrender to the guards, the gas will paralyze them eventually.










You have to believe me, we're your friends.
























Only the children were spared for work.













Why did you and your friends come to Xeros?



























If you have a lot of weapons, can you organize your friends?




























































































The castle only responds to the truth.





































Hurrying isn't gonna help your friend, Doctor.

















































































































































































































































































































I warned you soldiers weren't fit to work in space. They can only kill.



















I don't understand why they want to help a friend.





They help each other.






























We're sorry you were separated from your friends, but it was necessary.










They're holding our friend... as a prisoner.






























It's just part of the truth.



We hung out in space in front of each other.






















We'll help you save your friend.






























We were told your friend was in danger.





























We're not kids.















































He determined it was your friend, but before he made contact, he went back inside again.


No need, my dear.




































In the middle of nowhere, your friend is still in the ship.


























































I'm afraid my friends, the Daleks have won.






































The other Daleks will be here before he can get to work.




















I understand, of course, that I can't match the Daleks. So if I pass it on, will you help me and my friends get off this planet?








Ah, my friend, never!
















Ah, one moment, my dear.











































































Yes, thank you, thank you, my dear, thank you.


































Isn't that right?



















































After all, this woman is from Earth.
























No, my dear.































This is our only chance, my dear.











































































































































































Yes, my friend.
















































































































































































It's true.

I'm afraid it is, my dear.






































I'm afraid my friends, the Daleks have won.













































































































Oh, it's Brett, isn't it?














Yes, you're quite right, my dear.





































Not exactly, not exactly, my dear.




























































We did a good job finding this bush, now we can get to the ship.






































































































































































Until tomorrow night, to be exact.











But I believe Cressida will join us until tomorrow night.




















Oh, think, my dear Odysseus is a fleet of them!






























I mean, even a kid could handle it.
















































Tell them... tell them I found our friend.


























































































































































Listen, is this Diomed a close friend of yours or something?
A very good friend, yes!

Oh, listen, Troil, when you... come from the future, you make a lot of friends and he's one of them.

But he's not any more than a friend, is he?


































































































Oh, honey.












Your friends went home without you.









Yeah, that's wonderful, isn't it?





















































































Nice work, Bret, good work.

















Oh, he's one of them, my friend.



















































































Oh, my dear young man, you ask a lot of questions.











Great, my dear friend, great.








No, my dear, no.
























































































































































































Thank you, my dear.







Come here, my dear.




Oh, don't ask questions, my dear girl, or you'll be like those two!















Yeah, I think you're right, my dear.
















I think you should achieve your goal, my dear.




I hope so, my dear, I hope so.













































































































































Yeah, your friend, the prisoner, Greek, he escaped.












Thank you, my dear, I'll see you later.













































Troil, dear Troil, will you do something for me?













No, he's just a friend.
Then if he's your friend, why do you want him captured?





































































Yes, but, my dear child, boy, boy...












Stop fighting, woman!




















[Doctor opens the Tardis door. Oh, honey, this case...
























He left... with another friend you've never met...









































What, my dear?































What was going to happen, my dear?

Dear child, you're not dead!
















Oh, my dear Vicki, I hope you're okay, hmm?

























I'm not Zeus, and this young man is my friend.






Leave them here to rot, let them be an example to their friends. Leave them here to rot, let them be an example to their friends.






























































































































































































None of you have any idea how to treat children.
































We'll, uh... see you again tonight... everything's gonna be okay.




We can tell each other a lot.










My dear boy, I can't offer that.






















I can't stop every woman and ask her if she's your friend.


















My dear boy, are you sure?

















Last week, my friend Diomid died of his wounds in this camp.







All right, Doctor, let's get to work!

















I'm Diomed, friend of Odyssey.


























I should have listened to my friends.



Really?






















































Yeah, women usually do what we get into this kind of trouble.








































































You and your friends.


























So far, we have spared you, even though you continued to attack us, but we will always protect our friends.










































































You didn't leave with your friends.




















































There's nothing to worry about, my dear.
I think the evenings here are about...


























Yes, it is, my dear.





























Oh, stop worrying, my dear, and stand still.










































































































































































What happened, my dear, hmm?










Well, just look at these instruments, my dear boy.






























Oh, my dear boy, I'm used to all kinds of atmosphere.






My dear boy, just give me a few minutes and if it's okay, I'll come back to tell you.




Good evening.




































Never mind, my dear boy. Do as you're told.








































Well, the search for knowledge, my dear boy.






















































































































































Well, even I, dear boy, must admit to having fun.










So, there's one thing you shouldn't do, my dear.

























































































































































































I'm telling you, these kids aren't for your paintings.

























































































Honey!






















































































































































I have a friend there who I think will help us.

















Our computer network contains precise chemical samples of every man, woman and child of our solar system.


























































































































































































































Yeah, we're probably wanted by other "friends" of Chen's now.














































































































Talking to yourself, my young friend?



















Your friends.














































And so are my friends.































They have fourteen more dawns to finish their work.




























Do you really believe that they can take over the Rill ship themselves?














You think so, my dear.
Do you really believe that?




No, that's really weird, isn't it?





Well, they seem a little gross, don't they?
























































Oh, really?
















I didn't really help, did I?



































































































Great job!
































































- What a night's work.

























































- Sleep's good after work.























































Sharik's gonna grow up, I'm gonna give it to you. A friend in the war will come in handy.
































It's day three, and you've only been with me since last night.











It's a weapon on a big beast. And this hunt isn't for kids.




































Let's be friends.
















Are you such a friend? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, You tell yourself.





























































































































































































Kids, be quiet, please.






















With all due respect to the doctors, the barber's work is also an art.













After you hand out the diloms at half past seven, at half past seven, you can go to your classes where the students put out the jobs they created in a year.





Good evening.








What you learned here is love for children, for people...
Love for children, for people and for society.













Councilman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and students,



































Yes, distinguished councilman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and students, at first we couldn't believe it.
After working together for so many years, it seemed impossible, but the facts are facts.












I wish you all the best, my friends, and so do you, Mr. Mireveld.
































Work done.
























































I wanted to buy you all something to drink tonight.
















The job I asked for, the clerk in court, was given to me.


He's a famous expert in court, a medical expert with whom we're almost friends.









It's hot, isn't it?
















































- You wouldn't mind, my friend.































- The work is done.
























































































A room for tonight?








Even a friend.





Maybe this evening is a unique opportunity.









A very beautiful woman.

Where does the soul hide the principle of beauty in such a woman?







































































My wife, Korra, is a smart, exemplary woman.
And I have two great, smart kids, Dos and Cathy.























































She said, "Hey, friend." And I said, "Hello."




Govert, I have to tell you the truth.
































































































Korra's coming tomorrow with the kids.







































I see the truth, double, triple size.























For my children.



Dear Korra.

































And my only friend.




















My job.









































- Any kids?












































I'm entering this woman's private life.

That's not true.













"Dear, I loved you the way they loved you the first time.












- What if he finds out the truth?

































And tonight, we're under the windows of her apartment.









































- Yeah, it's true!






Last night, I decided to stay here to do the experiment.





























I'm late, darling.
































"The body of a naked woman has just been discovered in Vincent."

"A young woman tried...
















- It's true.













































































Why? Because you're coming with me tonight?



















We're meeting for dinner tonight.


















































- Good evening, madam.
- Good evening, Cissel.

















And the death of your friends, your wife?










I'd really like to talk to him.













Congratulations, my dear Corradie.


- Mademoiselle. - Galya, this is my biggest friend.
- Really, Monsieur Wespir?


I'd love to, wouldn't I, Galya?







I really don't, thank you.





I don't like what your friend looks like.



Come to my house tomorrow night.
I'll have some friends.






And often he's interested in other people's women?













Can you lend me this photo until tomorrow night?






























Yeah, yeah, really.


















Oh, yeah, that's right.







I'm glad you were here tonight.










It's gonna be a long night, that's all.















Really?


















































Good evening, Mademoiselle.
You're giving us a charming surprise tonight with your presence.
To which I have gathered some of my closest friends.
Dear Greg, my wife and I are happy to see you.



















- It's almost true.















If you agree, call me tonight.


































Isn't that right, darling?

































I was hoping to see him tonight.








































She's very beautiful this evening.




















Yeah, I was free for dinner tonight.


Tomorrow night, eight o'clock, at the Selecta.

Are you sure it'll be ready tomorrow night by 7:00?



































Good evening, little girl.






Tomorrow night, eight o'clock, at the Selecta.




Good evening.




Goodbye, darling!



























Is your work progressing?
















































I promised Wespira I'd spend the evening with him.












But if you're free tomorrow night...
















Did you really want to kill yourself?





You have to tell him the truth.








Tonight, I'll tell him the truth.
































































































































If it's a woman, put something on it.







































































And then, it'll almost be true.










































































I spent the evening with Greg. At your house.












I don't like women, Nicole.













































I want to tell him the truth.











































You know, love turns out to be common to those who don't love each other.









































- That's not true!
- No, really!
























































































































































































































































I guessed, didn't I?




























































































































































Really?

I always want a woman before I kill someone.
Are you really gonna fight him?



It's part of my job.

































































I never trust a woman.





































Good job.




































































































































































I think it's very expensive.































































Dear fellow citizens, we, the regional representatives of the peace march...
































Our neighbor, Yeshioka, now has a child.
















































If you get a dose of radiation, it's important to know if it's gonna affect the kids. Worrying.





































I really do.










































































- It's cool, isn't it?


























If you think that's not logical, then you don't digest your work.












































Success is possible if Eagle leaves Yokohama tonight.
























































































Children




















They used a wolf wolf whip to hurt each other's flesh, which was the only way to make sure that they loved each other.




























I'm drowning... my dear.
I'm drowning... my dear.



































What are we gonna call each other this time?








'Cause you told her you had three because your mom... my wife died a long time ago and I'll never be able to love another woman again.

When a man has a few women, it means he still loves one.


We're not taking my moms with us, are we?



We've always shared our thoughts, listened to each other's silence, and now I have no idea what's on your mind.





- You're a wrestler, aren't you?






































































- Well, tell him not to send gifts, but to show up himself. Is it fair to leave a poor woman who does nothing but...


















































































What do you want? Kill the baby?








































And yet... you didn't lie to that poor kid.
What do I care about the kids?












What a disaster, Padre, you already have a lot of work to do in the parish.






















Well... if you can call it a job...



Well, the truth is... the men in the skirts didn't really like my dad.









Really?
Yeah, really.

Is it true you don't have any family or relatives?







Well, let's say I want to be your friend.





Does he really see us?

Yeah, really.













































































Here you go. Keep it in your place, then you'll see that I've told the truth.






























My dear brothers, you can sit down.

























































































But if you want, I'll come to your house tonight.




Now let the other kids try.













It's covered in silver, isn't it?




























I never thought in this village kids were carrying guns.



































Come on, let's go inside, the other kids will be here soon.




































And you know, José Maria, don't give me any more of these signs, because the other kids are laughing at us and saying all sorts of nasty things.




- Yeah, but we haven't gotten married yet. Are we really husband and wife?






































































Isn't that right, Padre?



Well, don't let that woman take it.









































































I really didn't know.








The woman who sold her soul to Diavola! Damn it!



























































































And this man... I tell him... this church is his house, and I am his friend.

































































Now I'm gonna go get them, and we're gonna meet again tonight.
































The woman who sold her soul to Diavola! Damn it!














































































































To a priest, all the children are like his own, and to us, he's the only one.
What if you want to have your own children later?


You love him very much, don't you?


















These words... may soon be true.




















Believe me, your mother Teresa is a wonderful woman.












Of course he doesn't look like your star, but he's still good, isn't he?











































Thanks to you, I found my way into life. And now the joy of life and work has returned to me.












































It's better for me, because I'm gonna have a lot of work to do, a lot of other things, and I can't watch you anymore.










She loves you very much. She's a good woman. She's married to a very good man.


























I know you and José Maria are big friends, and he's telling you everything, right?



No, I really didn't.

























































Really?






























































































































































































































































- Really, huh?




















Tell me about the women in your world, Captain.






You didn't answer my question about women.

The tech changed them that they stopped being real women?
Worlds change, galaxies break down, but women always remain women.
































Kids watched their parents die, whole families were destroyed.
























































































- It's no longer a personal matter if they can interfere with the stable operation of this ship.












Really?





Now I have to find out whether it's true or not that Karidian and Kodos are the same person.
It's true.




























































































































































































































































You really liked her, didn't you?
























































































































































































































































































































































































But the fact that the defendant is your assistant and personal friend...













































































































































































































































































But with the child's mind.






































We're your friends.








































What about the kids, the little ones?













Children, Captain.


- Like animals. It's just kids.

The creature that attacked us was definitely not a child.















Really?



















































There are only children left.
But children become adults.






Is it possible that children who have reached this period catch up with the disease?





All the adults on this planet died 300 years ago, but there are lots of kids around.






Children instinctively need adults.



She's becoming a woman.


















Obviously, due to a calculation error, the virus destroyed the entire adult population in a short time, spared only the children.
But then these kids...



- Old kids.










We're dealing with kids, though incredibly old.
Still, they're kids.


You couldn't get close to the other kids?































It's all true.






















In a while, we'll all go crazy. We're gonna kill each other, and the last one is ourselves.









































Children.











If nothing is done, in a few months the children will starve.





















































































You, your friends, all the little ones, you're all gonna get sick if we don't make it. You've seen sick friends. - Sometimes it happens.




Why don't you want to be with your friends like you used to be?

And... once you're a girl, you're gonna get sick, like everyone else is gonna get sick. That's not true.














Or bat-bat, bad kid.


































I've got two jobs!















You've seen your friends change one by one.













He's telling the truth.

































































They're just kids.

It's just kids.



























































Incredible, as it may seem, dear boy, I think the child, uh, Dorothy...

...uh, uh, yeah, of course, my dear...






Leaving the heat exchange module valve wide open, you could cause an explosion that would be fatal... not only for the human race, but also for our friends, the Monoids.

















My scientific friend would like to thank you, sir, on behalf of the Monoids, for the care you have shown us all.






What does that prove? Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out, dear boy.

That's right, my dear.





















Yeah, yeah, it's incredible, dear boy, but maybe, of course, it's possible.


Oh, be well, my dear.









Yes, you must, my dear.






























































You're gonna scare the kid.




Yeah, but do they have two goals? ..


































We're all friends here.






















































This pleasure is meant for the children of our children, many years later.






































It's for our children and grandchildren, so they can watch it grow gradually when time passes.









































































































































































Your English soldiers did not leave a quarter of the men, women and children.


Get away from the woman!






Ben notices the gun near Laird, grabs it and aims at it..................................... We won't trust Laird with those Sassinahams, woman. Ben notices the gun near Laird, grabs it and aims at it.....................................


Think of the woman.






























































Good job.




















































































Used to hard work and a small amount of food.





















































The Dragoons have orders to detain any woman.


Okay, they heard that the prince was trying to run away disguised as a woman.































Always leaves me dirty work.







































































































I really don't want to eat.














They have my friends, too, remember?


You're a grown woman.
























I'm trying to help my friends.











































































































When I was a kid, we lived across from the brewery.




























It's mysterious, isn't it?




















I'm warning you, they can't stop working on it.
















































































To tell you the truth, I've been studying his reaction-- seeing if he's gonna believe us.

















































































































































I have to get back to the ship tonight.












































My dear young man...





























You may know where you are, my dears, but not when!








You didn't think this nonsense about the past and the future, did you?































And you came by road instead of by sea?

































Ah... you, uh... you were expecting friends, hmm?
Avery's boys aren't my friends.





































Oh, it's nothing, it's nothing, my dear man.

















Go your way.






































There's a case-- a message for the Chief needs to be delivered tonight.




Tell him that... they tell him that Keiper had a word from his friends.












Oh, we just want a room for the night, my friend, hmm, hmm.









His friends welcome, sir, but not so weird.














Yeah, I think it's even better now, my dear.






Oh, ch, ch, ch, watch your tongue, my dear boy.








I'm afraid so, my dear.














Well, I wouldn't worry too much about it, my dear, because I don't think we're gonna be here long enough to find out!






But not forgotten, just like your old friends, Joe.
I'm not your friend. I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-
























I have a lot of friends here-- powerful friends.


Where are your friends now, huh?


















But before you see your friends, tell me what I want to know.










Good evening!
Evening.





































































































































If you want help, I want the truth.















I told your young friend I needed information.

I want you to tell me the truth.

























I suppose you know where we are, my dear.






Oh, well, you see, the problem is that we're back in the 20th century, my dear, and the TARDIS is often taken for a real police booth here.















































Okay, maybe tonight it'll be clearer.
- Oh, tonight, sir?



Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, of course, my dear comrade. - Hey, Dodo?












- Really?


















- What's he saying, my dear?









What is it, my dear? Are you okay?



































































- Come on, honey. I know your type.
















Okay, you heard the employees doing the secret research, now it's my turn.












He's making calculations. And only answers the truth.





He has no reason to hide the truth.






























Nothing. Oh, you're gonna work late tonight, Professor?
















If you want to work here anytime.





























































































































Who's your friend? - He's not a friend yet.
























Don't take it personally, man.

- Really?


























Let the boy and the woman go first.































































































































































We're friends.

We were friends.





















































































Don't touch their women.


I'm meeting friends on the beach.





























Workman, married, three children.










Good night, kids.






























































































I'm with my friends.














































Among these Arab men and women are the perpetrators.

























Because, actually, they don't know each other.




But that's the only word that describes the work to be done.

The basis of our work is intelligence.








































































































































Back to work!



















Sounds like the truth this time.






























































Bless you, Lord, my children.















Good job.





There is a need to continue work without respite.

















A daughter upstairs and a husband, he's at work.





























































Mr. Ben Midi, isn't it cowardice to use your women's baskets to transport bombs that take so many innocent lives?










It's late, and we have a lot of work to do.












































































































































































































































































We can look for a job, but for now we can only count on people's mercy.

















































It wouldn't be right after all your hard work collecting figs.

You really scared me.





































































It's true what Vidal says, these days the Pilgrims are just criminals who walk with the spirit of repentance.


How much do you want for your job?



I have to admit, they're the only ones who agreed to this job.
The boy's right, my friend, we need workers and we don't have a choice.






Martin, I think you lost your job.

Not much, Master Tarna, except work in the kitchen, that's all.








It's more or less our job.


































































Tell me, are they your own work?




























































































It's true, Martin.








Martin came to work, he's better!
Really?

Really, I'm not lying!

Martin recovered, and he came to work.




























Cotolay wants to be your friend.





Quibo's my friend!
Quibo's my friend!
Grandpa, Bernardo, Grandpa, Quibo is my friend!



It's not me, it's Francisco, he told Quibo that I wanted to be his friend.















When our order increases in number and the brothers start sitting on each other's head, they will soon expand the monastery.



Yeah, but it's gonna be more expensive.
It's not gonna be a problem, if it's true, what they're talking about is the big treasure hidden here.





































I'm sorry to leave you, friends, but we have to go with him.

















You think that's true?

Well, even if it's true, why do you think you're gonna find him so fast?

What a child!













Tomorrow you must go to Santiago and ask your friend Francisco to release you from this oath and make him realize that you're not a real man yet.




Okay, I'll tell him, except I'm not a real man yet because it's not true!










Really?




































Oh, my darling.

























































































































Don't be afraid, the wolf is my friend.
If he's your friend, tell him to leave.






























Is that really bull skin?



































After we did everything well and everything, the job called me...


















Wait, kid, look, if it's true, what you need is I'll tell you that these stones have a master.








































































Don't do it, my friend, I've already figured out that this fig-girl was you.































Well, Cotolay, I'm your friend, remember what happened in the swamp.

I'm telling the truth.



















Don't be afraid, Dimo my friend, come to me, Kotolay.




I can't be your friend anymore.





So we're gonna be friends again?

Good evening, Mr. Mateo!






Everyone says you have a terrible temper, but I don't think if it were true, you wouldn't have built such a beautiful gallery for this apostle's house.











































































My friend, don't forget I bet on you!



































Come on, man, come on!







Can we be friends?





Is that true?



















And thank you all, my friends, God bless you.








































































































































































































To solve this issue, my team did a really important job, and I want my colleague,































It's true, there was a wind,






















Everyone else get in touch with each other.



Everyone connects to each other in a line.







































I, I have a wife and a little kid down there,





































































































































































































































































































































We don't need to be introduced to each other, do we?










































Sergeant, that can't be true.





























































































































































Each and every one of you is doing your job, except you, Frank.







































































































































I wanted to do it, but now, promise me you'll be there to take care of the baby,











































































































































































































































































































































































































































All sins will begin to fall upon each other, to defend themselves before the Almighty.























































































































































































- Did you really ask for much?



































At least give up your job, for God's sake.
Why don't we just say no? Let's go back, that's all.





























That's not my job.


















































We've got another job to do.






































































































































































- I haven't told you the truth yet.

















God, you're really gonna forgive me, aren't you?























You were telling the truth at the time.
The truth.






"You're gonna rip each other's throats off without us."
































" Learn to do good, seek righteousness, save the oppressed, protect the orphan.





















There's nothing worse when it snows in the temple, is there?











































There's no truth in the world!








































































































- Isn't it bad clay? - Bad.



























































Fix it so you can burn it by tonight.


















































































































































































































































































































































































































































We're gonna need a ransom with gold and we're gonna split it. And then everyone goes their own way.





















You're free and free to do whatever you want! Go your way and don't get in our way again.



















































































































































Stand up for each other!


































- We're all friends.
- Yeah, we're good friends!







































































































































When I was 20 years old, I went to the castle to demand my property back. But my mother and my stepfather have already died... the truth is, before they died, they ruined all my inheritance...


















- What are you talking about? - You have to go your way.




We're gonna make a lot of kids for Brancaleone's new castle.
























































































































































You didn't do anything. The worst part is for a woman to be rejected.



That bastard did what you could do if you knew about women.





































You don't have to cut each other's throats because of that!
















We're gonna start a new life, we're gonna have a bunch of kids like you wanted.
























































































































































He found me wounded in the river, pulled me out and took me to the cave... glamorous, just like a woman.












Calm down! I'm with my friends!












































































Friends! Brothers! Soldiers!



















I have a job for you.

































































Love and forgive each other at the hour of death.




Love and forgive each other at the hour of death.













































You'll recognize each other by...


























































































































































































- I'm a close friend of Mr. Weigelt's. I need to see him.






















She has everything a woman can dream of.












































My dear Margery, how have you been... since the Clifford case?



To tell you the truth, recently...







Suvi, darling, we must have confused the day.


















- Monsieur Fabre is a friend of Margery's.





- She's amazing, isn't she?





- Monsieur is our friend. - Anna... such a passionate nature.








I once hired a singer, Anna, who was just mentioned.


Beautiful woman.






You know women:














































- None of the friends at the X-ray lab work? - Nope.




































If you find out anything, why don't we meet closer to tonight?


















I'm from Paris, friend of Margery's.



























Great job.






I thought you and your friend would enjoy the safety that was so expensive.

































































Now, try to keep your friends as long as you can.




































So I can believe my friend broke up?


















And what's your way of communicating with... your friends?



















































Very soon you'll meet your friend... left-handed.












- His friend.





























































The staff comes to work at 2:30,


























































- And your friend Margery?
He'll be gone, my friend Margery is dead.

















































































































It's got the necessary stuff for the job.













This evening, Maxim Podberezović was moving in an unknown direction.






























'Cause how much Ermolova would play better tonight if she was... you know... working...



Isn't it time, my friends, for us to swing at William, you know, our Shakespeare?


























Give me some friend cigarettes, then.
























































And this very man who got into your car also asked for a Belomor, and then bought a friend cigarette,



















- A friend's cigarettes.
Yeah, yeah... A friend cigarette... a dog on a label... thirty cops...

There was no Belomor, that's right, that's why he bought a friend cigarette.




























Wife is a doctor. Two kids.





































































































































































Look, man.





Thank you, friend, for helping out.
- A man is a friend to man. - Oh, right.



Tell me, friend, is there a telegraph around here?













Kidskin loved kids.



But the inspector also loved the children, and gracefully did not yield to Detchchina.








I've always been afraid of that. It's gonna be a big job, and he's gonna fail.































































































































He betrayed the most precious thing-- friendship!














And the sick leg? And the "friend" cigarettes?

In Shakespeare's time, there were no "friend" cigarettes!































- Your friend's a joker!















Yes, dear spectator, Detchkin didn't take any money.























We're friends!











Friend!
Friend!

If I go to my friends, don't think it's bullshit...
Listen, man!















You're talking like a three-year-old.


















































Here's a progress report.

Good evening!












Well, there were some flaws in my work.






















Forgive each other, noble Hamlet.
























But when it turned out that the accused was a friend of mine, I gave up my case and now I'm only speaking as a witness.


He sold cars, but gave money to the kids.

































































































































































It's a five- to six-year-old job.





















































I'm at work.




















































































































































Sorry, honey, my girlfriend doesn't want to talk to you.

We just have kids together.

There are no children either.























































































































Oh, hello, darling.

























































But when I get paid, I always do my job to the end.

































































































Founded in 14 districts of this state, convicted of murder, armed robbery of citizens, public banks, and post offices, theft of sacred objects, arson of state prison, perjury, bigamy, abandonment of wife and children,














In this world, there are two kinds of people, my friend... one with a rope around his neck and the other with a job to cut it off.



You may be at risk, my friend, but I'm cutting the rope.












































































































































If you're working to survive, why kill yourself at work?
If you're working to survive, why kill yourself at work?





The world is divided into two halves... into those who have friends and those who are lonely like poor Tuco.
You see, I used to have a friend, Pedro.
Chico and Ramon... his brothers were my friends, too.

Very bad, friends.












































There are two kinds of spurs, my friend... those that walk through the door... and those that climb through the window.






Have you ever seen anything like this before, friend?














Welcome, my friend.








































































































































I'm your friend. Please don't die!

I'm your friend.



























































We're gonna take very good care of my friend for now.






























I mean, when you're sick, that someone's around... friends or relatives.












I have to tell you the truth, Blondie.






















I'll sleep better knowing that my dear friend, next to me, is guarding me.








































































"We don't see each other at all.
"There's plenty of food and drink. And let his friend stay."










































































































And he never forgets his friends."
I never forget old friends, Tuco.

It's good to see old friends again.




























Wallace will muzzle your friend until the song is over.



















































Last time I tell you, if I ever drop you, you're gonna need a lot of help getting up again. Come on.



If your friends stay in the fog, they'll probably catch a cold, right?
















You're making too much noise, man.






















I'm here with your old friend Angel Eyes.




























































- Really?



















































Well, my friends, follow me and enjoy the sight.







I have a feeling it's really gonna be a nice, long fight.
























Why don't we tell each other our half secrets?































You see, in this world, there are two kinds of people, my friend... those who have guns loaded... and those who dig.






































And I hope we have dinner together Wednesday night.







He hasn't had a job in 13 years between "Vampire" and "Day of Wrath".



























































































So, two styles look like each other, even though we had no intention of simulating.














You can't simplify reality without understanding it first, so I asked the woman in the studio dining room to organize the kitchen as if it were her own, so that she'd be comfortable with it.
























































Fight to the last soldier and to the last child.
Our kids don't believe in Santa Claus anymore.























































































































































When a staff officer plays Indians and cowboys like a kid, it could cost us thousands of lives.

















It's true.






Have you ever noticed that we don't have children?

I want a baby.




But everyone has kids. And I want a baby.


































































I don't like women fighting for me.





































Arab leaders hate each other more than they hate you.
Their soldiers don't believe each other at all.



















Your Palmah and Hagana don't like each other.























































































































- Your friends?




































You're a kid.








He shot me twice, but we stayed friends.



He's an old friend of my father's.



























They don't even like their own women.

























































































Our Hagans and Palms are great, brave guys, but as children of the same family, they're jealous of each other.






































There's a woman there who lost her husband.















I'm scared. I'm losing a baby.


My family says chickens are worth more than gold.
Why did you take the women to the convoy?





The polite British can't search women thoroughly.




















































If we're sure the baby will be born with at least one friend in the world.



I finished my paper soldier job, and if that's the only thing you have for me, I think we should break up.






















































I lost the baby.




It's my baby, too.















Colonel Marcus for his work during the Second World War in planning and military administration, which served as an Anglo-American agreement on many issues,















This time, Mr. Stone, I hope your friends understand that we want to help them.

If you insist on the withdrawal of our troops, your friends will be at the mercy of a terrible, powerful enemy claiming their territory, whose army will subdue them in a few days.











Of course, your friends have a Bible, but Arabs have oil.







No guns, no tanks, no friends.








You have friends, too, though it may be weird to hear.









































































































- What do we got? - Your old friend Joseph...















And if we don't attack, it's Friday night.



































































What's the point of these pyramid guys putting their friends in the Red Sea?

Three pieces of bread a week for the kids, there's almost no water.









Now it's like giving a kid a balloon after the party.















"Don't die, or I'll hate women..."























































































































































































Aluf Stone. An old friend came to see you.

























- What kid did that?










































I've started work.



















































































Tell your friends we're going to Jerusalem in the morning.





































































































Child.......................................

























- And Anna and the kids?































































































































With women like that, it would explain everything that Louis said about the piranhas.


























































































































































































































































We're gonna need it tonight.




























































































































But Paco, we're friends.



- If you want, I can offer you a job.
- A job?
What kind of work are you gonna give me?






























- Hello, good evening.
- Good evening.


















When he has a friend, he sees what he can get from him.












































































They remind me of women.
































Since there are a lot of animal vampires with a woman's face...

















- "I was killed. - "What were you watching on TV last night?









Children.


"These are my children.



















































































































































Your friend did it for the bet, Don José.




See you tonight.
See you tonight, Juan.






























Do you have a job for me, Paco?










There's always room for friends.





In a few days, we'll be serious about your work.






























































- Bubber escaped from prison. - Really? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,


































































Work year, two kids, and a good wife.





Doesn't look like you're gonna be able to help tonight?









































Everyone has bad kids, Leroy, Jack Rogers...



- What are we gonna do tonight?







































I want to see you tonight.











Tonight?


- Really?






























- I will, darling. I pray for everyone.





































- Turn around, darling.







- Good evening, Ruby.










What... can't you think of anything else on Saturday night?
















































Honey, didn't we order this sign? Isn't it,
- Honey? - No, it's a helicopter.
















































Do you want to be with your friends?



We've been waiting for each other our whole lives...
What about your friends?






































He's his wife, and I hope his future children,








































Good evening.






We never had children. It's so hard.
























Look, go get my stuff, darling.



You're sitting here tonight.




I need a partner. Honey, let's dance.

Honey, how about you?

Mary, Mary, honey, you're drunk... no one will dance with you when you're drunk.




What are you doing here all night?


Honey, don't worry about it.

- We're gonna protect him, aren't we, Damon?








Do you like young girls, darling?




















































I hate men who beat women.
You hate everyone who doesn't just hit women.


The new money takes you away while the old money waits for it to be taken. I've never heard of it... great. Really?








Looks like everyone likes to change partners these days, darling.


























He doesn't drink with the poor, darling...











































Every Saturday night.
You're the only woman who doesn't like to talk.


I have a present for you... open it, darling.



































































































I'm tired of watching the dead on Saturday night.




McCormack... he's got a wife... and three kids.















That's not true.












Come on, darling.



























































































Just came by to say hello to a white woman.














Go home and open another one. And then go to bed with your friend's wife.

































I'm sick of living here. I'm tired of work.
And I want... we're gonna have a baby.
I don't want my kids looking at prison.

































The best thing about Saturday night is... his disappearance with the first rays of the sun.










We've known each other since we were kids.







































































































Is that true?












You're my friend!



























































































































































































